ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution expressing the gratitude and recognition of the National Assembly for the acts of heroism and military action of members of the Allied armed forces who took part in the landing in Normandy, France, on 6 June 1944 (No 1984). A little over a century ago, on 3 February 1919, in the same Chamber where we are sitting today, Woodrow Wilson, the twenty-eighth President of the United States of America, took the floor from this rostrum. This was the first time that an American president had travelled on an official trip to Europe, and the first time that a foreign head of state had spoken before the French deputies. President Wilson believed in peace, in the resolution of conflicts through multilateral negotiations. Nevertheless, on that day, he took a prophetic commitment, asking that "whenever France, or any other free people, is threatened, the whole universe stands up to defend its freedom". After the euphoria of the crazy years, the poison of nationalism spread during the thirties, soon setting Europe on fire and blood. Seventy-five years ago, the forces of freedom landed on French soil, to put an end to the dreadful parenthesis of Nazi occupation and state collaboration. Yesterday, in Normandy, a moving ceremony revived the memory of this operation of incredible audacity, which would bring democracy, peace and prosperity back to France and Europe. It is right to salute the memory of those who fought, those who fell for our freedom. This motion for a resolution has no other purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u2	Mr Roland Lescure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u3	"I was born in Alabama in 1918, but my life really started the day I committed myself to defending freedom in France." These words are from Tim Black, former American soldier decorated on December 9 of the Legion of Honour by our consul in Chicago, Guillaume Lacroix. They say a lot about what the commitment of the soldiers who fought at the risk of their lives may have represented. Tim Black had experienced segregation. He took part in the Disembarkation. He freed Buchenwald. Returning to the United States, he became a civil rights activist. He brought Martin Luther King for the first time to the University of Chicago. Of the Tim Blacks, there were about 16 million who served during the Second World War. From black Americans from Chicago ghettos to young farmers on the plains of Quebec, millions of young people volunteered to engage in a far-off struggle that did not directly affect them. They first took this commitment in the name of an ideal, that of freedom and democracy – values that we have shared with our brothers and sisters from across the Atlantic for 250 years. The French were alongside the Americans at the time of their independence. The Americans and Canadians, twice in the 20th century, came to us from a bad step and to defend our democratic model. It is in the name of these values, seventy-five years ago and one day ago, that 3500 young soldiers, Americans, British, Canadians, Belgians, Dutch, Norwegians, French, Greeks, Danes, or from ten other countries, who volunteered in the Allied armies, were killed on the beaches of Normandy. It was June 6, 1944. They have also made this commitment, sometimes, to give meaning to their lives. We were with you yesterday, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, and several of our colleagues, including President Bridey, whom I greet, on Juno Beach beach, with the Prime Minister of Canada, to pay tribute to the Canadian soldiers who committed themselves during the Second World War. Among them, a young Quebecer, Lorenzo Tremblay. A few years later, he expressed his feeling at the time of his commitment: "I enlisted to live the adventure, to see the country, to support my family in a Quebec hit by poverty; also out of patriotism and solidarity; No doubt, also, I felt called to defend my French brothers." Their courage gives vertigo. He encourages humility, as well as responsibility. The first of our responsibilities, of course, is transmission. There are 496,000 war veterans worldwide. Every day, 348 of them die. To perpetuate their memory is the objective of the motion for a resolution that brings us together today. Our second responsibility obliges us to fight those who intend to divide us. In the face of nationalists who reinvent history and cry out for conspiracy, we have a responsibility to recall the truth. Europe has also been built thanks to our allies. Our cooperation has enabled us to live our longest period of peace, thanks to the construction of Europe. The third responsibility must lead us to transform our international system, so that it can adapt to the challenges of climate and globalization. Finally, the fourth, perhaps the most important, responsibility is in the wake of the words of Tim Black: the one that led an African-American to liberate a people during the war, and then find the force, back in America, to liberate his own people. It is the question of commitment, which must work each and every one of us. France, by the voice of its national representation, will never forget Tim Black. She'll never forget Lorenzo Tremblay. It will never forget the 150,000 soldiers who committed themselves for our freedom, on June 6, 1944, in Normandy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote with solemnity and gratitude, but also with enthusiasm, on the motion for a resolution before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u4	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u5	We are gathered this morning, following the commemoration ceremonies of the seventy-five years of the landing of June 6, 1944 in Normandy, to express the eternal gratitude of the National Assembly, the deputies and the French people to those who participated in the liberation of the country. I am all the more pleased to speak this morning because I am one of the many Members who co-signed last May a motion for a resolution almost identical to the one we are considering, tabled by our colleague Philippe Gosselin, Member of Parliament for the English Channel. He is not present this morning in the Chamber because tribute ceremonies continue on his territory, forever marked by this major event of the twentieth century. Mr. Speaker of the National Assembly, I would like to thank you for your initiative. Members of the Republican Group fully support your motion for a resolution, signed by almost all the group presidents of our Assembly. Elected from the Jura department, cut in half during the Second World War by the demarcation line that saw so many heroes pass, where the glorious narratives of the Resistance still resonate, where we are still many to commemorate the acts of arms and massacres, such as that of Saligney, I fully measure the unheard-of sacrifice made in Normandy by these young men who came from so far to liberate the soil of France. Almost everything was said about the landing of June 6, 1944: courage, fear, sacrifice, heroism, self-denial, the dead, the wounded, solidarity, luck sometimes, preparation, certainly mistakes, doubts, weather conditions, the cold, which forever marked this historic day. History is written every day. We know today that 6 June 1944 gave the signal of the reconquest of the European continent. The fighters of that time could not possibly imagine it, even if they hoped it would be at the bottom of them. After the heroes of the first day, the Normandy beaches saw hundreds of thousands of men, millions of tons of ammunition and equipment passing over for months, which allowed the allied forces to lead the battle to the heart of Germany, to meet the Russian forces, who were also fighting hard on the eastern front of Europe. In the face of history, politics must show humility. It is regrettable that the Russians, our allies of the time, were not associated with the commemoration ceremonies. On this day when we express the gratitude of a whole people to those who helped us to free ourselves from the Nazi yoke, let us not forget them! At the time of the landing in Normandy, historians recall, three quarters of the German troops were positioned on the eastern front. I am particularly pleased that the ceremonies of the last days, both on British soil and on French soil, recalled the major role played by the French Resistance on that day. These included the 177 men of commando Kieffer, to whom the British forces left fifty metres in advance so that they would be the first to set foot on the ground of France, but also the hundreds of men and women of the shadows who contributed, each to his level of commitment and courage, to the success of the operation. They represent this eternal France, which has not given up, which has not been discouraged and which has brought up, sometimes to the ultimate sacrifice, the values of our country. As the last veterans leave, it is important that the younger generations seize this page of our history and appropriate it. That is one of the aims of this motion for a resolution. We welcome that. Moreover, the rise of memory tourism in our territories reflects the commitment of the French to their history, and their willingness to understand the events that have built our country. Finally, in line with Philippe Gosselin's motion for a resolution, I would like to stress the message of peace, with a universal vocation, which this day carries. The sacrifice of these men engages us. Better than anyone, we know that our freedom has been gained in the blood of ours and our brothers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir, LaREM and SOC groups]] For this we are eternally indebted. Of this, let us be worthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u6	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u7	"The long sobs of the autumn violins hurt my heart with a monotonous tongue," it is these verses by Paul Verlaine, broadcast by the BBC, on the evening of June 5, 1944, that trigger the vast railway sabotage operation led by the French Resistance, paving the way for the landing of the Allied forces in Normandy. Operation Neptune, the amphibious phase of Operation Overlord, will begin at the end of the night, to the surprise of the Nazi occupier who thinks any landing impossible in view of the dantes weather conditions of this early June 1944. As an echo to General de Gaulle's appeal of 18 June – "France is not alone! She's not alone! She's not alone! It is 6939 ships, organized in 47 convoys of French, British, Canadian and American soldiers, but also Polish, Czechoslovak, Norwegian, Belgian, Dutch, Australian and New Zealand soldiers who participate in the greatest landing in history. From six to thirty in the morning, the landing took place successively on the Norman beaches with now famous names: Utah and Omaha first, then Gold, Sword and finally Juno. Nearly 11,000 men were killed, wounded or reported missing after a day of combat, the longest that opened the second phase of Operation Overlord: the Battle of Normandy. Seventy-five years later, we do not forget. We do not forget that thanks to the heroism of the 150,000 men who participated in the Disembarkation, France was freed from the yoke of the Nazi occupier. We do not forget that it took the ultimate sacrifice of more than 10,000 men for this single landing to end the darkest period in our history. We do not forget, at last, that peace, built on the ruins of the Second World War, is all the more precious since it is never definitively acquired. The current situation does not fail to remind us, as migration, climate, economic and social crises clash, that peacekeeping is an everyday effort based on each and every one of us. With this resolution, this House will participate and encourage the duty of memory of every French citizen to ensure that no more such horrors strike our country. Finally, it will remind us of our commitment to multilateralism, which alone is capable of resolving global conflicts in a lasting manner, particularly at a time when the law of the strongest is re-emerging throughout Europe and the world. In declaring that France was not alone, General de Gaulle recalled that only multilateralism could save France from the Nazi occupier. Today, only multilateralism can resolve global conflicts. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups will vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u8	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u9	"The long sobs of the autumn violins hurt my heart with a monotonous tongue": on June 5, 1944, at twenty-one hours fifteen, the first stanza of Fall Song, by Paul Verlaine, entered history. The beach of Ouistreham is about to become, for ever, Sword Beach, Courseulles-sur-Mer, Juno Beach, Arromanches, Gold Beach, those extending from Colleville-sur-Mer to Cricqueville-en-Bessin, Omaha Beach and those of Sainte-Marie-en-Bessin to Quinéville, Utah Beach. The Benouville Bridge is also about to become Pegasus Bridge forever. Nearly 7,000 ships, 130,000 men and 20,000 vehicles land on Normandy beaches for Operation Overlord. Sometimes the story's got little to do with it. On the night of June 5-6, 1944, the English Channel was dismantled. But, thanks to their weather ships in the North Atlantic, the British have information certifying a lull of a few hours that can allow a landing on the Normandy coast. The Germans, on the other hand, are certain that the storm will last. They are confident that the Allies will choose the shortest seaway, that of Pas-de-Calais. The German commander leaves serenely on leave in Germany. The long-awaited D-day of Normandy was a success and marked the beginning of the continent's reconquest. On behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I would like to join in commemorating the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Disembarkation, a ceremony in which I took part yesterday, and to thank, through the vote on this motion for a resolution, our American, British and Canadian allies. Their decisive role in putting an end to Nazi tyranny in Europe and in defending the free world deserves our full recognition in this way. Let's not forget. Let me begin by commending the secular historical relationship that binds us to the United States. We owe a debt to the soldiers, mostly very young, who fought thousands of kilometres from home for the freedom of a continent of which they knew nothing. They did so, as their elders had done during the First World War, with the cries of "Lafayette here we are", in the name of the help that revolutionary France had given them to gain their own independence. Historical relations between our two States and our two peoples far surpassed the blunders of economic and political unrest. Let us maintain in the name of these bonds a fruitful relationship, which does not prevent us from being demanding and without weakness as to the values we promote. How can we not be cautious and concerned about the policy of the current President of the United States, who, questioning the principles of multilateralism, participates in the undermining of the post-war institutions, the very institutions that had laid the foundations for peace and prosperity? The question of the future of multilateralism and the settlement of disputes by law is raised in the face of the rise of power policies and the return of so-called spheres of influence. Let us not forget, for the policy of memory must, in the troubled times we know, be alive. It must help to avoid the colonization of thought by populist movements. It must avoid indifference to the inacceptable; It is as much the question of the rule of law in some European countries as the shipwrecks of thousands of migrants in the Mediterranean. Let us not give in to individualism and, as the great resistor Stéphane Hessel called it, let us maintain our faculty of indignation. Let us not forget the French fighters and the soldiers of free France, in particular the 177 marine riflers of commando Kieffer, who were the valorous actors of the liberation of our country. Let us not forget the resistors and resistors of the interior who participated in the Battle of Normandy, providing information useful to the success of the operation. Nor should we forget the Canadian troops who, on August 19, 1942, paid a heavy price by disembarking on other Norman beaches, the Dieppe beaches. Nor should we forget the soldiers of the African army who, in August 1944, participated in the landing of Provence. It took time for the anniversary of the Normandy landing to be the subject of international ceremonies and political mobilization at the highest level. It is indeed necessary to wait for the fortieth anniversary, in 1984, and François Mitterrand, to commemorate, in the present format, in the presence of several foreign heads of State, the landing of Normandy. Several reasons for this. On the one hand, the date of commemoration of the end of the Second World War was debated for a long time and on 8 May it became a holiday only in 1981. On the other hand, Disembarkation is a painful symbol for Norman memory. The bombings and acts of war resulted in nearly 20,000 deaths in the region. If peace is never definitively achieved, the work of memory is an incessant duty. In conclusion, if we want to live up to the legacy of those heroes who have given meaning to the word freedom, we must be intransigent about our values. We must remain open to the world and to others. We must remember that peace elsewhere begins here and meditate on Michel Serres' sentence: "War is not the mother of all things. The battle produced nothing, except new battles, hence its nullity," or that of Eisenhower, the commander-in-chief of the Allied forces during the Disembarkation: "I believe that the best way to protect my own rights is to protect the rights of others." [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Yesterday, I had the chance to discover the exceptional exhibition dedicated to Norman Rockwell at the Caen Memorial. My attention was drawn to the four tables representing the four freedoms mentioned by President Roosevelt in his famous and decisive speech of January 6, 1941. It defends freedom of expression, freedom to believe, freedom from want and freedom from fear. Let me add a fifth: the freedom to say thank you. Thank you to the allies for giving us back all these freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u10	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u11	It was with emotion that yesterday we celebrated the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Allied landing on the beaches of Normandy. Time is running out, the years are unfolding, and yet the emotion is still as strong. Every year, we salute the bravery, self-denial and sacrifice of those men who fought so that we could live free in a world at peace. With this in mind, it is proposed today to adopt a motion for a resolution by the President of the National Assembly, Richard Ferrand, to express the Assembly's gratitude and appreciation for the Allied armed forces that took part in the landing in Normandy on June 6, 1944. Before continuing this discussion, I wanted to warmly welcome and thank our colleague Philippe Gosselin, Member of the House of Commons, who had tabled a motion for a resolution along the same lines. Through these initiatives, we are perpetuating what our Assembly undertook on 6 May 2014 by unanimously adopting a motion for a resolution by our colleague Laurence Dumont, tabled on the occasion of the seventieth anniversary of the Disembarkation and also voted by the American Congress. At the time, Léon Gautier, veteran of commando Kieffer, a monument of history and humility, was present in the stands. He was still yesterday alongside those who succeeded him in the commandos of the national navy, while fourteen new sailors were patented. The Overlord operation, originally planned for May 1944 on the Normandy coast, will finally take place a month later. At the same time, Operation Fortitude, a fantastic disinformation campaign, will successfully deceive Axis forces. As Winston Churchill says, "in wartime, the truth is so precious that it must be escorted by a guard of lies." Through its work of sape and harassment, the Resistance, armed with the shadows, will also play a decisive role before D-Day. On the night of June 5-6, between midnight and two and a half hours in the morning, the operation will begin with the drop of 21,000 paratroopers in the Norman bocage, behind the first lines of defense. At dawn, after being bombed by the air force, the coast, in turn, will be bombed by the ships. Then 132,000 soldiers, for the vast majority of the United States, Canadian and British, will take the direction of five landing points on the beaches of Normandy on board 4266 barges. The Americans aim to take Utah and Omaha, while the Anglo-Canadians must take Gold, Juno and Sword. One hundred and seventy-seven French soldiers, members of the first battalion of marine rifles commanded by Corvette Captain Philippe Kieffer, will land the first on French soil at Sword Beach, alongside British forces. This commando will stand out in particular by taking possession of Riva Bella's casino in Ouistreham, transformed into a bunker by the Germans. If landings on the other beaches take place rather well, those of Omaha will quickly turn to the carnage and the American soldiers will discover hell there. On the evening of June 6, 1944, the allied casualties were 10,000 victims, including 5,000 soldiers on the beaches – the staff expected 25,000. Operation Neptune is only a first step and will soon be followed by the hard battle of Normandy, bloody, traumatic. These operations will be the first milestones for the Allied offensive to undo, less than 12 months later, the Axis forces and free Europe. The common story of this extraordinary operation is simply to testify once again to the heroism deployed by these men, who have enabled our peoples to regain their freedom and restore peace in Europe. These bequests were preserved thanks to the convictions and determination of great politicians, such as Charles de Gaulle, Konrad Adenauer, François Mitterrand and Helmut Kohl, who managed to set aside their grudges, anger and passions, so that yesterday's enemies could be united today. As the last witnesses of the most deadly conflicts in history are carried away by the years, it is our duty to pass on the torch of remembrance to the younger generations so that those who fought for their freedom never fall into oblivion. Let us not be afraid to tell them that looking back in no way reveals a fear of the future. On the contrary, as T. S. Eliot said, "solid is built only on the past." The European Union and the United Nations were born out of the ruins of war and the evidence that such disasters were never to happen again, so much so that in our societies, peace and freedom seem to be acquired forever. However, terrorism, the spread of populism, the proliferation of nuclear weapons, migratory pressures and climate change are all threats to our peoples and challenge what these heroes have fought for. Clearly, in the face of such dangers, disunified or disorganized actions will only lead to chaos. Only multilateralism, as this motion for a resolution affirms, will allow us to resolve global conflicts on a lasting basis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the independent UDI-Agir Group supports this initiative and will vote for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u12	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u13	It is good that we in this House, through such motions for resolutions, can recall important moments of history and pay tribute. This approach satisfies us. We know that a country is also constituted by its memory and its ability to recall the important moments in which it founded itself, where its freedom was defended. However, we pay tribute to the dead, too, to speak to the living, to make sense. Sometimes it is said that it is the victors who write history: in this motion for a resolution, not all victors are mentioned, and this is our reproach for it. Of course, we must pay tribute to the American, Canadian and English soldiers. All the nationalities of these soldiers must be recalled. We must not forget any of the 400,000 American soldiers, nor of the 45,000 Canadian soldiers – I stop there the morbid list of soldiers of all nationalities, who were present on June 6, 1944, which underscores the tragic nature of this historic episode. But speaking of the Second World War and the importance of the day of June 6, 1944, it is mandatory to recall that this landing was only possible because of the victory of the Red Army in Stalingrad. We do not understand why June 6, 1944 was possible if we forget that it was first on the eastern front that a major victory was won against the Nazi armies, notably by the army of the Soviet Union, the Red Army. Operation Neptune, which opened a new front in the West, was requested by the USSR, which had been fighting for two years on the ground. The Disembarkation was waiting for the green light of Stalingrad's victory to be launched. Since we have rightly recalled the heavy toll of the various countries and the number of deaths that this conflict caused, especially on the day of the Disembarkation, how can we forget that the USSR is the country that has borne the greatest number of victims? Twelve million Red Army soldiers lost their lives in the fight against the Nazi army, 12 million! Sixteen percent of the entire population of the Soviet Union have disappeared in this confrontation with Nazism! For what reasons could we not in this motion for a resolution at least remind him? This is in no way a validation of the nature of the Soviet Union regime, which at that time was led by Joseph Stalin. This is not to endorse Stalinism, it is to recall the complexity of this event. Without this victory on the eastern front, Disembarkation was not possible. The French knew this: at the Liberation, the FIFG – it already existed! – had questioned them about their perception of the victors of the conflict. At 57%, they considered the USSR to be the nation that had contributed the most to the Nazi defeat; Only 20% cited the United States. Since 2005, the proportion has reversed. That has to question us. The protagonists knew this: Franklin Roosevelt has always considered the participation of the Red Army to be decisive. I recall that the Soviet Union recognized General de Gaulle as the head of free France, long before the United States of America. All this must be returned in this motion for a resolution, in order to show the complexity of the time, so that this tribute will not be excluded, injuring, for the country that contributed the most to the victory against Nazism. I repeat, we pay tribute to the dead, but we speak to the living. Once again, it is an explanation that this victory is not only due to the United States of America. Let us be careful not to make this work of memory a very contemporary work, very current, which decontextualizes the conditions of victory, which attributes it and thanks only one country, and this because of the world as it is today. That, ladies and gentlemen, is why we were unable to support the motion for a resolution as it stands. We would be happy to vote if Mr. President, or those who have worn the pen, wanted to restore, with all the richness that the French language allows, the reality of the Red Army's contribution to victory against Nazism. But as it stands, it seems to us to attest to such an oblivion that it is not useful or even counterproductive. I'll tell you what, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u14	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u15	Two days before the longest day, the BBC heard the second part of Charles Trénet's verse, inspired by Verlaine, "Bercent my heart with a monotonous tongue", as well as 160 other "personal messages". The army of shadows is in action. Resistants and unions, including CGT Cheminots and CGT PTT, are beginning to sabotage radio and railway lines. At the same time, resistance groups are destroying high-voltage lines, fuel depots, ammunition, and intensifying information and assistance to parachuted Allied soldiers. Networks of resistance, mainly communist and Gaullist, unified from 1943 by the National Council of the Resistance, mobilized from 4 to 6 June, to lend support to the allies. One US general reported that 80 per cent of the information useful for the liberation of France was provided by the Resistance's secret services. On June 6, 1944, the landing in Normandy was launched, allowing to relieve the eastern front, which the USSR had carried at arm's length since 1941 and which had already suffered more than 10 million deaths on the Soviet side and 6 million deaths on the German side. On this side of Europe, it is hard to imagine the magnitude of this carnage where, for the past three years, a man dies every ten seconds. Obliging the Wehrmacht to divide its troops between this new front opened by the Allies, mostly from North America, and the eastern front, held by the Red Army, allowed the landing of 6 June 1944, which clearly precipitated the fall of the Third Reich. [[The speaker's voice breaks]] [[Applause on all benches]] I obviously have an emotional thought for all those soldiers who participated in the Disembarkation, in order to free a land... that was not theirs. These allied soldiers, those of the French Liberation Army, of course those of the first battalion of marine riflemen, who landed on the beaches, the aviators, the French sailors who contributed to the Disembarkation. This motion for a resolution put forward by the President of the National Assembly therefore enables us, in our own way, to express our gratitude and the recognition of national representation for this military action which has freed our territory, at the cost of the sacrifice of a large number of young people. [[The speaker interrupted. – Prolonged applause]] I would also like to refer to the bombings carried out by the Allies on certain cities. At least two of them paid a heavy price. Le Havre, crushed under 1800 tons of bombs. Some with phosphorus. Dropped massively on neighbourhoods where the German army was not present. This city was 80 per cent destroyed. Two thousand of its inhabitants have perished. This is also the horror of war. They are innocent civilians, who die by thousands. Let us also remember these massive deportations, based solely on religious, political, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, disability. Let us remember these murders carried out on an industrial scale, rationally organized in concentration and extermination camps. Nor should we forget the ultimate abominations of the two American nuclear bombings on Hiroshima and Nagasaki on 6 and 9 August 1945, which killed 250,000 people in a matter of seconds. The 15,000 nuclear bombs that some states hold today can destroy our planet several times. The struggle for peace must also continue, in the spirit of multilateral and complete disarmament of all nuclear Powers. Article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons must be fully respected. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is here to remind us, with all the strength of the citizen movement. In this connection, I call on our Parliament to set up the permanent delegation to nuclear deterrence, non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament, which I proposed with Michel Fanget in our information report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Because a nuclear attack leaves indelible stigmas, in the very genes of the survivors. Our rightful efforts in France to preserve biodiversity and our environment will be in vain if we do not remove these weapons, which can destroy our planet in a matter of minutes. It is therefore out of coherence that we must mobilize for ecology and, at the same time, for global, total and irreversible nuclear disarmament. This memory of atrocities must be accompanied by an unwavering desire not to reproduce this by working for peace and friendship among peoples. Together, like the French Communist Party, the Peace Movement and other organizations, every 21 September, on the occasion of the International Day of Peace, let us celebrate peace, to remember the horrors of war. Let us amplify these commemorations and give them meaning. [[The speaker interrupts for a moment.]] Finally, I cannot conclude without thinking of the Song of the partisans... whose words will have to resonate forever: "There are countries where people at the bottom of the beds are dreaming. Here, we, you see, we are walking and we are killed, we are dying..." Parliamentarians, communist party activists are working on all fronts to make the first verse a reality, and to ensure that young people have only dreams to fulfill. [[Feeded and prolonged applause on all benches]] To our liberators from all countries: thank you, spassiba, thank you. Long live peace!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u16	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u17	I am a member of this post-war generation, which fortunately did not experience the atrocities of the period. The legacy of this terrible event is nevertheless well present in my mind, even more so today, when we pay tribute in this assembly to the fighters engaged in the landing of Normandy on June 6, 1944. So many stories, transmitted for several generations now, cross my mind: that of an uncle, who fought on the island of Elbe during the landing of June 1944, a few days after that of Normandy, and whom I had the joy of accompanying on the spot, many years later; that of another uncle, who also told me about the terrifying days of Monte Cassino; That of a third, finally, party of Algiers for a slow progression by fighting to Germany, finally defeated. This story is ours. It's the one of every European. Whether we lived it or not, June 6, 1944 is part of our memories, our collective memory. And this must be the case, and the memory of these events must continue. On 6 June, tens of thousands of soldiers deployed their courage under terrible conditions. They arrived by air, parachute or glider, or by sea, with the aim of freeing Europe. These hundreds of barges carried brave men, thrown into hell, who had to ignore everything and offer what they had most precious. On all the beaches and landing areas of D-Day, so many men fell. So many others will never forget their wounds, nor the frightening images of what they have experienced, scenes that some have told, which others have left buried in the silence of their hearts. These stories, sometimes heroic, often tragic, must in our eyes be told, to never forget. To these peace fighters we owe gratitude and gratitude. It seems to me that it is appropriate to associate in this tribute, in this respect, all the victims of the repeated wars that have so martyred Europe. Nor should we forget the immense sacrifices of the Resistance, at the service of a heroic and unequal fight. And I will be forgiven to mention here the hundreds of monuments to the dead, which from Bastia, a city that was also crushed under bombs, to the smallest of the villages of Corsica, evoke the sad memory of so many broken lives. So we must strengthen this duty of remembrance in the law, by adopting this motion for a resolution. That is why the president of our Freedom and Territory Group, Philippe Vigier, wanted to co-sign this text. It is also about witnessing, passing on the legacy, telling new generations what this landing was and why it took place. It took place so that memory would never disappear; so that youth may not forget; so that she knows how fragile the stable environment she knows today is, and subordinated to a struggle of every moment, for peace; so that children may realize that war is a source of misery, suffering, destruction, and that peace is an ultimate good. This memory, rooted in Normandy, a land of pilgrimage, has spread all over the world. Americans, British, Canadians, Poles, Norwegians, Belgians, Czechoslovakians, French of commando Kieffer and many other nationalities, not to mention the immense sacrifice of the Russians, fought side by side. The forces have flocked from all countries and joined together with the sole aim of ending a period of horror. So much and so sacrificed their lives on the ground of a homeland that was not theirs to offer us freedom – and most of them were only about twenty years old! They are the symbol of a bruised youth, bruised so that we can, until today, enjoy the precious good of freedom. These young people had a sacred duty: to crush the absolute horror of Nazism. The absolute horror. They did so, and therefore this 6th June 1944 imposes on us as a daily duty to preserve the ideals, the supreme values of individual and collective freedom, fraternity, respect for others, in a word of democracy. Let us remember, these ideals will never be acquired. We see it today, when so many retrograde and dangerous ideas arise everywhere, so many threatening forces, when so many aggressive nationalisms, arrogance, will for domination, populism, religious hatred and chimeral obsessions flourish. One responsibility lies with the citizens of our continent and with the political leaders: that of doing everything possible to contain war conflicts, war crimes and terrorism, which only demand to ignite again, ever more. These threats remind us of the need for solidarity, for union in the face of adversity. The preservation of our ideals must be realized, understood as a common goal, embodied in a desire for exchange and consensus. Together we must oppose racism, anti-Semitism and totalitarian ideologies in Europe and elsewhere. This sacrifice of men seventy-five years ago is an inheritance that we must honour. In the trials of war, we had become inseparable allies; Despite the wear and tear of time, we must do everything we can to remain so, and to be trusted partners in a world of peace. It is in cooperation, dialogue, that the common objectives of the future can be maintained and valued. This landing thus strengthened the ties of a historical Franco-American friendship. The memory and respect of past misfortunes did not prevent the advent of Franco-German cooperation, and beyond that, the European construction, which we must improve and deepen. [[Applause on the LaREM, MODEM, LR and SOC benches]] Despite the political differences, despite the economic contradictions, despite the difficulties of the hour, it is our common duty to maintain the links forged on the beaches of Normandy, today seventy-five years ago, and to maintain the desire for a global balance of peace – so that the sacrifice of these fighters at Omaha Beach, Utah, Gold, Juno, Sword, after so many achievements, is not ultimately in vain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u18	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u19	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for the quality of their statements, in which emotion was palpable. You thus echoed the emotion that we felt during yesterday's ceremonies. At that time, seventy-five years ago, more than 150,000 men occupied four bridgeheads on the coasts of the English Channel and Calvados. At that time, the living were counting the deaths of the day before, wounded were dressing their wounds, and the valid soldiers were holding their position and preparing to receive the German counter-attack and continue the offensive. At this time, if the Pegasus Bridge bridge is held, if the Landing was a success, the original objectives were not achieved. The cities of Carentan and Caen are the witnesses and examples. The terrible battle of Normandy began, that of the panzers bloated in the bocage, that of the snipers in the hedges, that of the violent clashes in the marshes. Seventy-five years ago, the march for freedom began in Normandy. It was long and bitter. Nothing was easy, nothing was obvious; the adversary did not have the vocation of surrender, it was resolved, strong, organized. As General de Gaulle said the same day, in his radio speech, "The supreme battle is engaged. [...] Great means of attack, that is to say, for us, of rescue, have begun to rush from the shores of old England." June 6, 1944 is indeed the dawn of our restored freedom and the twilight of Nazism. The D-Day brought in the landing of Provence, the liberation of Paris, the reconquest of Alsace and the definitive victory against the oppressor. It is to all the soldiers of the Allied armies that we have dedicated these last days. It was to our brave French fighters that we paid tribute. These are the resistors, the righteous, the heroes, the civilian victims, whom we greeted. Yesterday's commemorations made it possible to pay a strong tribute to the sacrifice of thousands of young people and to salute the memory of their leaders. The veterans of each nation who are still among us have been at the heart of the ceremonies: Léon Gautier, emblematic figure of Kieffer commandos, but also hundreds of veterans from all countries have been honoured by the personalities present, by the whole public, in a true communion of tributes. They were the true heroes of this day of June 6, 2019. Yesterday, time was for remembrance and fraternity. To the courage, we responded with gratitude; to the sacrifice made, we responded by eternal gratitude. I welcome this motion for a resolution from the national representative, its chairman and most of the group presidents. This is a great initiative that responds to that of the House of Representatives of the United States. They are symbols that matter, have meaning and are part of a dialogue among allied nations. With this resolution, France reaffirms that it knows what it owes to freedom soldiers. She remembers those who joined forces to pierce the Atlantic wall and continue the liberation of our territory. It salutes the memory of all those who gave their lives to bring down the Nazi regime. With this resolution, France once again expresses its gratitude. It salutes the courage and determination of young men who, far from home, struggled for a higher ideal: that of human dignity, fraternity and freedom. They were British, Americans, Canadians, New Zealanders, Australians, Poles, Norwegians, Dutch, Belgians, Luxembourgers. They were our allies yesterday; They still are today. Seventy-five years later, we still have freedom and justice for common passion. The fervour we saw yesterday in our allies, in our nation, in our youth, makes me say that the transmission of memory works, that these ceremonies have meaning and continue to speak to the French of the twenty-first century. The memory fights the merit; Our veterans of all generations of fire, our resistors, deserve it. I am sure that yesterday's fervour will be in the south of France, in Provence, in a few weeks. I am sure that many of us in the capital will remember the glorious parade of the Champs Elysées on August 26, 1944. I believe the French sincerely attached to their history and memory. These are two pillars of our identity and a cement of our living together, and if we are a nation, it is because we share this common history. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, SOC, GDR, LT, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Because the Government will continue to express France's gratitude to its allies, all its allies, because the Government will continue to render honours to veterans and resistors, without which nothing in this conflict would have been possible, because the Government wants to preserve our memorial heritage, especially in Normandy, because the Government encourages the work of remembrance and makes transmission to younger generations one of its priorities, because that is how we shape our future, I encourage national representation to adopt this resolution without hesitation, and above all with deep conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u20	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u21	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u22	[[The sitting was suspended at 10.05 a.m. and resumed at 10.05 a.m. with Mr Sylvain Waserman in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u23	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u24	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the mobility policy bill (No. 1831, 1974, 1937, 1938, 1942).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u25	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with Amendment No. 1658, which added the article after Article 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u26	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 1658, 1202, 2369, 1817, 1825, 1473 and 2544, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1658.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u27	It aims to make it mandatory to wear helmets for all electric scooters and electric bicycles. According to Christophe Bayart, owner of MobilityUrban stores, some 50,000 personal travel machines, scooters and single-wheelers combined, were sold in France last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u28	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 1202.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u29	After our lively discussions last night about the complete rewriting of Article 18, we come to the amendments on the additional Article after Article 18. This one, of which Julien Dive is the first signatory, also aims to make mandatory the wearing of the helmet for all motor vehicles, specifically electric scooters. This is a vital necessity, as some of these devices can easily exceed 25 kilometres per hour. In the United States, where electric scooters have arrived in cities since 2017, the most common injuries are head injuries, long before fractures or bruises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u30	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1817 and 1825, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u31	Amendment No 1817 aims at the same objective, namely to force anyone travelling on a personal motorized travel unit to wear a helmet. As I said yesterday, the criterion that should guide us with regard to the safety of drivers is that of motorisation. Electric scooters meet this criterion. By Amendment No 1825, I propose to extend the requirement to wear a helmet to electric bicycles. Of course, they do not have an engine, but they have a propulsion mechanism that allows them to achieve high speeds. The issue of road safety must mobilise us. The number of accidents increased by more than 20% in 2017, with injuries reaching primarily the head – and the medical profession alerts us about this. This must lead us to make it mandatory to wear the helmet for any traffic by electric scooter or even by electric bicycle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u32	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1473 and 2544, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u33	They aim to make it mandatory for all users of such equipment, even if they are over 12 years of age, to wear helmets. Accidents are often fatal or can cause severe injuries, which prevent normal living. I come from a mountainous department where we deplore every year many serious accidents related to the fact that people were not wearing helmets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u34	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 2369.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u35	We are continuing our discussion last night on the safety of scooter users and other electrical equipment. Yesterday, I pleaded that these scooters should not be driven until they were 14 years old. We were not heard by the Government, which wished to set the required age at 12 years. We again take note of that decision. Today, we are concerned about the lack of an obligation to wear a helmet. It is not enough to encourage people to wear helmets, it is a matter of responsibility. I understand that scooters can be used in the countryside, for example, but let me remind you, as an elected member of Paris, that there are an average of about 40 accidents per day and that they cause many serious injuries, including head injuries. In our view, it is important to make the wearing of helmets mandatory for the operation of these motorised vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u36	Mrs Bérangère Couillard, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u37	That's an unfavorable opinion. I am not unaware of the danger associated with the use of these devices, whatever they may be. However, yesterday the minister responsible for transport made a commitment to hold the speed of the scooters at 20 km-hour, as in Germany, against 25 km-hour originally planned. After checking, a non-electric bike reaches, in average race, 16 to 20 kilometres-hour. Why do you want to make it mandatory to wear helmets for vehicles or electric bicycles that are not on the market at 20 or 25 kilometres an hour, when we have not decided to do so, and that's happy, for classic bicycles? We must encourage the development and practice of soft mobility. Why impose such an obligation? It is really important not to make wearing the helmet mandatory. It is already for children under 12 years of age. Let us leave it to everyone to put on a helmet or not. Of course, people who have bought a scooter and use it every day, like cyclists, have every interest in wearing a helmet. However, why force someone who takes a scooter on the street – notably in Paris, Madame Kuster – to wear a helmet? We know very well that, if we do this, it will prevent the development of this type of practice. Let's be reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u38	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u39	The Government is also clearly opposed to these amendments. The safety of scooter users and the safety of other users of public space must of course be addressed. With regard to the latter, we are doing so by prohibiting the movement of scooters on sidewalks, which will now be liable, I would remind you, to a fine of 135 euros. As far as users are concerned, I understand that our communication on the draft decree, which is being consulted, has not gone well. I would like to make available to you the documents we issued three weeks ago. We will take a number of steps. We will prohibit drivers of motorized travel gear from travelling with earphones on their ears and force them to wear retro-reflective equipment at night. In addition, we will impose a minimum age to use these devices. I was thinking of setting it at 8 years, which is in the original version of the Order in Council. Nevertheless, I have heard what has been said, and we will raise this minimum age to 12. In addition, the speed of scooters will have to be restrained. We had originally planned it to be 25 kilometres an hour, but I have heard what has been said about it as well and we are going down to 20 kilometres an hour, as in Germany. Finally, we recommend wearing the helmet. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] I warn you that the French are tired of imposing obligations on them, we must be clear on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u40	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u41	What about the 80-kilometre-hour limit?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u42	We recommend wearing the helmet, it's clear, and then everyone takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u43	You're more demanding with some than with others!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u44	It is well known that an obligation in this area would discourage the use of these soft mobilitys.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u45	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u46	I agree with the rapporteur and the minister: the obligation to wear a helmet would be a hindrance to the development of soft mobility. It is necessary to work on prevention, safety of developments and the development of infrastructure to accommodate scooters and other modes of travel of this nature. In the Netherlands, the wearing of helmets is not compulsory, but the arrangements are much more elaborate than in our country. In Australia, where the use of helmets is currently mandatory, there is a decrease in the use of soft mobility and the authorities are thinking about the end of this obligation. These elements must be taken into account. We need to talk about prevention, user responsibility and infrastructure strengthening, but I do not think the mandatory helmet is the solution today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u47	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u48	One thing is certain, Madam Minister: the night is a good advice! Last night, you considered it impossible to return to the speed limit of 80 km/h on national roads; This morning, you explain to us that the French are tired of imposing obligations on them every day...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u49	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u50	...and you are prepared to say that the helmet is not necessary on scooters. I invite you to review our deliberations last night: perhaps we will succeed in convincing you of the usefulness of allowing the increase of the maximum speed allowed to 90 kilometres per hour on national roads, as it will now be possible to do on departmental and communal roads, if there is agreement of the elected representatives and after the opinion of the Departmental Road Safety Committee. You can see that there are double standards in this case. The scooters are essential for urban mobility, especially in metropolitan areas – just leave the National Assembly to see the number of free float scooters available on the sidewalk – but they are tools that put their drivers at risk. Getting around 20 kilometers an hour, in places where there are a lot of people, a lot of pedestrians, traffic and a few queues, is a danger, especially since scooters are not very secure. And yet, you're ready to say there's no need for a helmet? Brigitte Kuster pointed out that there were roughly forty accidents a day, and sometimes fatal, but there's no need for helmets? However, for rural people, there was a need to reduce the maximum speed on all-right national roads by 10 kilometres per hour...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u51	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u52	I think that this new way of moving is synonymous with freedom, and I fully understand the argument that the mandatory wearing of the helmet would be a constraint: it is much more pleasant to be hair in the wind, I am the first to think that I would like that. I also hear arguments based on comparisons with other countries, including those looking back, such as Australia. But I have a Parisian tropism that must be forgiven. Not to mention incivism, it must be borne in mind that behaviour is different from one country to another: the use of bicycles in Amsterdam is obviously much less risky than in Paris. What is happening right now in Paris is a nameless capharnaum. The Parisian roadway has become more and more accidental. It's no joy of heart that I advocate the obligation to wear a helmet, and I'm not going to make it a fight: I'm just trying to anticipate. I see things on a daily basis, I hear the testimonies of those who have suffered trauma, I know what the emergency workers and doctors tell us about the victims they see arriving in hospitals. It is on this basis that I think that the obligation of the helmet would be more reasonable. I hear your argument, Madam rapporteur, and I will not make this question a subject of confrontation. We have a sense of responsibility, in this House we do not just say yes or no, white or black. Rather, this amendment was a way for me to draw attention to the danger of using these scooters, and to point out that urban traffic in France, and in Paris in particular, is hardly comparable with that of other cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u53	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u54	I support what my colleagues have just said: of course we must promote these new mobilitys, which are truly an opportunity, and we must therefore regulate them. That is what we are about to do, and the decree will also do so. We must also regulate the safety of drivers. To do this, helmets are still equipment that we must make mandatory. The decree will provide for several devices that will make it possible to make the use of scooters more secure, but the helmet is a necessity. We are about to circulate these vehicles on the road, in the absence of bicycle paths. Their speed will be limited – and again! Only for self-service scooters!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u55	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u56	Ah, I thought yesterday's debates were just about self-service scooters. Anyway, 20 kilometers per hour, it's still a high speed. Let's hear what the medical corps is saying! Another week ago, a surgeon at Saint-Antoine Hospital alerted us to the number of electric scooter crashes, causing extremely worrying facial injuries and fractures. The comparison with the bike does not hold: in a scooter accident, the face and head take first, because the driver swings over the handlebar, which is not the case on a bike. But a shock to the head is particularly serious, because of the trauma it involves. The wheel spacing is much smaller than for a bike, so you can go very fast by scooter with a stability that is clearly not the same as on a bike, hence an increased risk of accident. At a time when we are making road safety a national priority, I really believe that wearing the helmet must become a reflex. And for it to become so, unfortunately, I fear that we must go through this obligation. Let us remember, for example, the generalization of the obligation to wear helmets with mopeds, in towns and out: it is not old, it dates back to 1980! It wasn't a reflex at first, but it became a reflex. I therefore believe that, as we have more and more accidents and, I fear, fatal accidents, our responsibility obliges us to legislate on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u57	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u58	I would like to abound in the direction of the minister. There was a problem of occupation of the public domain, which you dealt with, as well as of the danger of speed. For the rest, let us look at things from a practical point of view. What we're talking about is the use decided in the moment. This is not comparable to the case of bike owners, who are often equipped with helmets. Making the use of scooter helmets mandatory could discourage many people from choosing this means of transport on a lead, as an alternative to the metro or other means of public transport. Many of us in the Chamber wish for a form of modal reporting, i.e. the development of alternative means of transport to the car. This is one that, without being new, has recently raised a number of issues. You responded to this question with regard to the danger or occupation of the public domain: there it was necessary to regulate. But let me make a point, finally: by multiplying obligations, at such a level of detail, there is a risk of de-empowerment in the use of the road, a kind of infantilization that will mean that, tomorrow, no one will be able to take on his responsibilities. Here's an example from my mayor's memories: more and more parents are taking their children to school by car, and even asking mayors to build car parks next to schools – they invented a kind of school drive! By doing this, they prevent their children from going to school on foot or by bike – while the school card guarantees, in principle, that it is nearby. They prevent their education in roads and public spaces, which means that a cyclist, a pedestrian or, tomorrow, a scooter user pays attention to the road, for example, gets used to watching before crossing. In order to increase the number of provisions, there is a risk of de-responsibility and infantilization of an increasing number of citizens. On the other hand, it is necessary to go in the direction of road and traffic education. This is not contradictory to the principle of safety, on the contrary: it will help to make the road safer, by ensuring that everyone takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u59	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u60	There are daily accidents between these new moving vehicles and pedestrians. It's abnormal: normally, pedestrians in a city are protected. Accidents have always existed, but they now occur in parks, on sidewalks, where pedestrians are supposed to be protected. Innovations can obviously be welcomed, but each one, with the new modes of mobility, has advantages and risks. Our role as legislator is precisely to frame and regulate these risks. For me, the debate on helmets must be linked to the debate on the speed of these devices. I had tabled an amendment in committee to make it mandatory to wear helmets for users of equipment whose speed exceeds 20 kilometres per hour. From the moment the minister made a commitment that the speed of scooters should be limited to 20 kilometres per hour, I believe that there is a need for parallelism with bicycles, which rarely exceed that speed. Therefore, helmets should not be mandatory for either of us, even if we must advise our fellow citizens to wear one. Since the maximum speed of scooters is now set at 20 km/h, their users will control them better and there will be fewer serious accidents. From then on, even if the wearing of the helmet is to be advised, it is not necessary to include its obligation in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u61	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u62	We can only thank you, Minister, for hearing the remarks we made in committee. On the question of helmets, one can make a parallelism with the seat belt in the car or the motorcycle helmet: everyone was against it, but who now enters a car without putting his seat belt on? Who gets on a motorcycle without wearing his helmet? While it is important to develop these new mobility devices, to say that the mandatory helmet will be a brake seems a bit unrealistic to me. We may want to develop soft mobility, but do we not want, above all, to limit the number of injuries they cause? It is important to listen to the emergency workers, as Laurianne Rossi reminded us. The number of accidents is increasing, unfortunately, as more and more vehicles of this type circulate. We must take stock of the phenomenon and make people aware of it. I don't think it's pointless to wear the helmet on these devices. As for the parallelism with the bikes... We are told that they drive less than 30 kilometres per hour: this may be true in the city, but in rural areas they can drive much faster!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u63	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u64	The minister rightly said that more and more tricks and tricks had to be stopped from being imposed on the French. Moreover, we must not confuse everything: as a doctor, I can tell you that the types of injuries caused by scooter falls are not the same as those caused by bike falls. Falling at 30 kilometres an hour, the head first, of a height of one meter fifty, is not the same as falling ten centimetres from the ground. The damage caused by scooter accidents should be studied, but each vehicle has its own specific characteristics. We cannot confuse all the soft mobilities: at one time, young people were injuring their spleen and liver because of the horns of mountain bikes! It was just a special circumstance on a particular displacement tool. Having experienced their use for years, I know that these scooters do not present the same dangers as bicycles. So let's not confuse. There is no urgent need to legislate, especially overly, with respect to things that are not yet under control. Between us, I would even have been more tolerant on the speed of traffic: 20 kilometres per hour on the public road, you can also be dangerous for yourself, because you cannot escape a situation at risk in the face of vehicles that go much faster!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u65	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u66	We have all witnessed scenes suggesting that people who use scooter rentals – from my point of view, it's also true of bicycles – do not completely master all the subtleties of traffic in the city. We spent part of the night debating safety on the roads of France. Also, when I hear that you cannot make it mandatory to wear the helmet on the sole ground that it would be a brake, that it would upset the development of soft mobilitys, I must make the bitter observation – but I am not surprised – that you are more demanding with some than with others. As you deny us the right to drive 90 kilometres per hour on national roads, you will refrain from requiring the use of helmets to satisfy the population who use soft mobility. You are showing, as I think you are, much more benevolence for urban cyclists than for rural motorists. That is regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u67	Mr Damien Pichereau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u68	We are engaged in a false debate: we are considering amendments to make it compulsory to wear helmets to combat the dramatic consequences of accidents. Our priority must be to combat the causes of these accidents. I myself use electric scooters in free floating and I fell a few weeks ago, fortunately without gravity. The cause of this fall was the poor condition of the roadway – there was a hole in the road – and my inattention. It is therefore necessary to empower people, particularly through training, which is reinforced by the articles of the bill on "know-how". This program targets the youngest, who will receive training in school. The empowerment of younger people is part of a long-term effort to reduce the number of accidents. In addition, urban and peri-urban planning needs to be addressed by securing cycling routes. To encourage local authorities to develop these routes, the number of users of soft mobility in the city must increase. This growth will also encourage motorists to be more vigilant. On the device, we pay more attention when there are lines of motorcycles and we are less careful in the absence of two-wheelers. But these amendments will lead to a reduction in the number of users: this would be in the opposite direction to what we want! Every effort must be made to increase the number of bike users, as this will increase safety. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It may seem paradoxical, but that's how it is! I therefore strongly oppose these amendments. We must trust the French: our fellow citizens are responsible and people who use bicycles daily often wear helmets. Let's trust them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u69	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u70	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Yesterday, we were talking about the fleets of electric cars in Belle-Île, and I would like to talk to you again about this island, where the fire chief doctor told me how accidentous scooters were among young children, even in Belle-Île. While the minimum age for using an electric scooter has been set at 12 years, could it not be made mandatory to wear helmets for all minors up to the age of 18? All right, I'm withdrawing that proposal. As for the older, Damien Pichereau said, they should be grown up enough to take on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u71	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u72	Our colleague Christophe Bouillon said that these amendments would infantilize the French. On the contrary, they would make them more responsible. Do you think that the obligation to wear a seat belt in a car and the obligation to wear a helmet for mopeds, which only dates back to 1980, have infiltrated the French? No! This is a road safety issue. We are facing the same challenge today, with new mobilitys posing problems. As responsible legislators, we must take steps, such as the obligation to wear helmets, to ensure greater safety for users. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I hear that these measures would hinder the development of these mobilitys. I think the opposite: many citizens will be reassured to borrow these scooters equipped with helmets. There were not so many questions about wearing seat belts in cars or helmets on mopeds, as the vehicles were not in free floating. They were used after acquiring or renting them individually. Would wearing the helmet break the self-service model? I don't believe it. I have exchanged with almost all operators: the integration of helmets into their fleet would certainly be binding, but it is possible. There are solutions, which are also French. The folding helmet option is already on the market, the object being placed in a kind of top-case located at the front of the scooter. French start-ups have addressed all these issues, in connection with the operators. Technical solutions exist, we still have to take our responsibilities as legislators to ensure the safety of the drivers of these vehicles, as has been done in the past for motorists and moped riders.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u73	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u74	The wearing of the helmet for minors could be the subject of a proposal considered by the Children's Parliament, which works well. That would be original and useful. The widespread use of helmets for scooter users should extend to other means of traffic. Some of you probably have an electric bike like me – mine allows me to avoid taking my car when I go to my permanence, in order to set an example – whose maximum speed is capped at 25 or 26 kilometres per hour. A fall at this speed is as dangerous or even more dangerous as a scooter. I'm putting on a helmet. Does this have to be mandatory? One of my friends, mayor, is passionate about rollerblading and riding with a helmet: he and his club advocate wearing the helmet. Let's make it mandatory! Some here are skiing: wearing the helmet should also be mandatory! Ski falls are very dangerous because of speed. Let's force everyone to wear the helmet, let's spend our time giving the feeling of pissing everyone off, as with the speed limitation on the roads at 80 kilometers per hour. Let's add diapers! In the meantime, scooter professionals warn that such an obligation would create serious problems for them. Let us make sure with the profession to gradually generalize the wearing of the helmet, first for certain audiences. I am opposed to the abrupt measures, which would now concern scooters and tomorrow all mobilitys. I am therefore not in favour of introducing this obligation for scooter users.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u75	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u76	I am quite surprised at the content of our debate. Before being elected MP, I was an emergency doctor and I saw people arriving at the hospital after a fall without a helmet in a very serious condition, some of them even dead. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Some of the arguments I hear shock me: do not put the seat belt on, just improve the condition of the roads and do pedagogy. No! We are here to take on our responsibilities and ensure the safety of the French. The wearing of the helmet by bicycle or scooter fulfils the same objective of public health and safety of the French as the safety belt and all the road safety measures taken by the Government for the past year with courage. I support them like the one aimed at making wearing the helmet mandatory. It is our responsibility. It is quite possible to develop new modes of transport in free floating by ensuring the safety of the French. Especially since the developers of folding helmets are French start-ups! I therefore wholeheartedly support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u77	Mr Bruno Millienne, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u78	My dear friends of the Republican Group, Mr Sermier, your positions are paradoxical: yesterday, I read in the report, Mr Brun asked us to stop bothering the French. We listened to you! We stop bothering them. People who don't have a helmet and take a self-service scooter "on a head," to use Mr. Bouillon's expression, are generally cautious because they know they are not protected. If helmet wear became mandatory, users would feel safer and pay less attention, some psychologists will explain this behaviour, which would increase accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u79	It's the same for lowering the speed to 80 kilometers per hour, so there's double standards!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u80	We won't agree, but let's stop messing with the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u81	We are continuing this rich debate. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u82	Mrs. Rossi, let's avoid the caricatures! There is not, on the one hand, irresponsible people who do not care about road safety and, on the other hand, responsible people. You compare the risks of driving a car to those of using a scooter. But it's not the same thing! Your comparison with the seat belt is caricatural. The issue of the use and sharing of the public domain was dealt with very well last night in the meeting. Another issue concerns the speed of this type of vehicle, which has been resolved by shaking it. If we wish to develop the use of these means of active mobility, we must create the conditions for this development, while regulating it. Bertrand Pancher's arguments were inspired by common sense and practice: the obligation to wear the helmet for the use of the scooter would lead to the same measure for many other means of mobility,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u83	All of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u84	...cited by our colleague. There is no reason why such a decision for scooters should not be extended to bikes and other machines tomorrow. The French would be bored and they would be infantilized – I insist on this term – by not allowing them to develop their road learning. Damien Pichereau's comments were correct: some accidents result from recklessness, committed by bike, scooter or roller users, who do not pay attention to others. Lack of awareness of road use and sharing sometimes leads to excessive behaviour. Recently, the TDIE think tank – transport, development, intermodality, environment – organized a meeting, attended by Damien Pichereau, on road sharing. Indeed, the climate is no longer at the systematic attack on the road, carried out by defenders of other means of transport. Sustainable and active mobilitys use the road: if we want to develop them, we have to make arrangements for sharing them, thanks to a regulation made by the provisions of the bill that we have already passed. I stress that the obligation to wear a scooter helmet carries in it its generalization to other types of transport. I'm fired from a cyclotourism club – it happens when you have time! – : the French Cycling Federation requires us to wear the helmet, this choice being dictated by the speed that can be reached, the exits being made outside the cities. That's not the case with scooters! Avoid classifying parliamentarians into two categories: those who are unconscious and who do not care about safety, and those who want all French people to be equipped with knee pads, wreath pads and helmets! Let us avoid such a caricature, which does not serve the cause! [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Finally, this helmet requirement may lead to the end of the use of scooters. The Assembly is close to the Invalides and places visited by many tourists. Do you think they'll think about putting a helmet in their suitcase when they come to France?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u85	The helmet will be provided!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u86	You have the right to disagree, and you are probably right about everything. This type of transport, which is precisely called free floating, can only develop if there is no such obligation. It is not because we do not make the wearing of the helmet mandatory that we encourage us not to wear it or do anything. One can of course communicate on risks, as part of a necessary road education. At the beginning of this week, when this bill began to be examined, the radio was broadcasting reports of the accidents that took place: they were also people, not people who were on a scooter but who were hit by one of those devices, and of course they were not wearing helmets. If we want to protect everyone, we should also protect pedestrians while walking! Our fellow doctors are right to alert us about the risks taken when using scooters. Of course, there is a need to communicate on the subject. However, making helmets mandatory for their users, even though the speed of these devices is limited, would be an extreme solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u87	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u88	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Bouillon, I am a little surprised that you dare to say that pedestrians should wear helmets, while some have been hit by scooters and are currently in emergency or other services! At least respect these injured people! We're talking about security. The subject is serious: don't make that kind of argument, please! I would point out that my amendment aims to extend the obligation to wear the helmet in force for motorized two-wheelers to all motorized personal travel devices – scooters, hoverboards, gyropods,... – and electric bicycles that may evolve on the public road, regardless of the age of their users. It is therefore all motorised machinery. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] In addition, you have refused to set the age from which scooter use is allowed at 14 years, but this is the minimum age required for the use of a moped.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u89	A moped can ride 45 kilometers an hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u90	You allow a 12-year-old to ride on one of these scooters, which you also say you secure use by limiting their speed. On the one hand, I'm not sure that scooters will be in the future really braided, and in any case today they are not. On the other hand, as you know, it is in this age group, from 12 to 14, that we are most unconscious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u91	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u92	Earlier, when I arrived in the House, I met a user of these scooters, who was wearing a helmet. I felt compelled to stop and ask her why she was wearing this helmet, even though she would no doubt like to be able to roll her hair in the wind – as Mrs Kuster herself told us earlier that she would be the first to love to be able to do it! This person told me that, in the absence of insurance on the cruising of scooters at 20 kilometres per hour, and as long as their users continued to drive on the road in Paris, next to trucks, cars and buses, it was unthinkable for them not to take this fundamental safety precaution. Madam Minister, you said last night that it was necessary to promote this mode of travel, because the statistics show that more of our fellow citizens could travel, especially young people, say between the ages of 18 and 35, or students, for very short journeys. However, this should not be done at the expense of security. That is why I fully support Mrs Rossi's amendments, which I have co-signed. I ask you to assure us that these vehicles will be restrained at 20 kilometres per hour, and that we will have a road map allowing these vehicles not to have to move on the road, in the middle of motor vehicles, such as cars or trucks. I would point out that in the Paris region, most accidents are not caused by the users of these scooters, but by the fact that they are obliged to move and zigzag between cars. As long as I do not have this double assurance, I will support Mrs Rossi's amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u93	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u94	[[MM. Pacôme Rupin and Christophe Bouillon applaud]] For the sake of clarity, I would point out that mopeds authorised from the age of 14 can run at 45 kilometres per hour. Mr. Mbaye, I said we were going to hold the scooters 20 kilometres an hour. We expect a fine of 1500 euros, if the scooter is not braided at that speed. I would also like to add to the debate that in 80 per cent of two-wheeler accidents, injuries are for members, and in 84 per cent of pedestrian accidents are for the head.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u95	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u96	If we were to impose the wearing of the helmet, it would be for pedestrians!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u97	France would be nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u98	We need to be aware of the scope of the decisions we make. The helmet is mandatory on a bicycle for children under 12 years of age. It could have been planned, for consistency, to impose the wearing of the helmet on children under the age of 12 using these scooters. We do more: we prohibit the use of electric scooters for children under 12 years of age. Everyone must have in mind that cyclist associations are unanimously opposed to the obligation to wear helmets. Maybe we know better than they do what it takes for the bike, but this is in any case their position. We cannot at the same time pretend to encourage the use of the bike and want to impose the wearing of the helmet by bike. The scooter owners, the operators of free floating, and 70% of the French who use these scooters tell us that the obligation to wear the helmet would lead to the cessation of this activity. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, we are all impressed by the number of free float scooters in Paris. But we need to know that in our country there were 230,000 sales of personal motorized travel devices in 2018. It is therefore 230000 French who have chosen this gentle mode of travel. 45 per cent live in cities with less than 100,000 inhabitants and 20 per cent in cities with less than 10,000 inhabitants. I also stress that this is a good way of mobility for the last kilometre, for example to reach its station. In the regions, some elected representatives ask us to give the mayors the opportunity to allow the use of these machines outside the agglomeration. I indicate that, in the decree, we will allow the mayors, under their responsibility, to authorize the use of this gentle mode of travel useful for the last kilometer. Do not think that this is a subject of Parisian bobos: it concerns our whole country. This gentle mode of transport should be encouraged. The Government therefore strongly opposes the obligation to wear helmets on scooters, as well as the obligation to wear helmets on bicycles for those over the age of 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u99	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u100	Everyone on this subject speaks with their guts, but you have to try to look at things a little cold. First, yes, the accidents reported by doctors are true. But it is because at the moment, it is anarchy that reigns with these personal displacement devices. We must therefore tackle this anarchy. That's a good thing, it's one of the objects of this bill! It provides, among other things, for fines in the event of improper parking and an obligation to move on the road, to avoid traffic on the sidewalk. Secondly, it must be understood that the dangerousness of these devices and the seriousness of the accidents are closely related to speed. The scooters will now be broken at 20 kilometres per hour. Electric-assisted bicycles, on the other hand, cannot ride more than 25 kilometres per hour. And the average speed of a bike without assistance is 16 to 20 kilometers per hour, 25 kilometers per hour maybe for people a little more sporty. They are therefore vehicles with similar dangerousness. It is therefore logical that the obligation to wear a scooter helmet should extend to the bicycle. As the minister said, all cycling associations are standing up against the requirement to wear helmets, as this does not solve problems and does not reduce the number of deaths. In countries where helmets are not mandatory but which have dedicated infrastructure, the number of accidents is low. Finally, there is a lot of talk about the increase in accidents in Paris or in large cities. Statistics show that there are certainly more accidents in urban areas, but the proportion of fatal accidents is very high in rural areas. Yes, there are more accidents in urban areas, but they are less serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u101	[[Smile]] Let's get rid of the countryside!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u102	What should be the solution? You have to keep your head cold first. Once the situation is less anarchic, we'll have fewer problems. We need to regulate speed: of course, we need a helmet for vehicles that run more than 45 or 50 kilometres per hour. When the vehicle travels around 20 kilometres per hour, it is not a helmet that needs to be fitted, but above all, and first of all, to protect them, because they have no armor. However, the most serious accidents, including fatal accidents, are those caused by other vehicles, such as trucks, cars, etc. The absolute urgency is therefore to work on infrastructure. However, it turns out that a bike plan is being drawn up and funding is being made available to develop the infrastructure dedicated to cycling. I plead, for my part, that we put even more and even more money! These are secure infrastructures – bike lanes – that will save lives. Imposing the helmet is the wrong thing to do. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, comments on the need for information are very relevant. The bill contains specific information provisions. Finally, the number of users of this type of equipment is crucial to safety: the safer it will be. Let us not be mistaken about fighting: users who want to wear a helmet can do so, but above all, let us not send a bad signal by making it mandatory. As has been seen in Australia, the requirement to wear helmets has reduced the number of bike users. Let us stop putting sticks in the wheels ourselves and let us not vote for this obligation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u103	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u104	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I, too, am opposed to the obligation to wear helmets for all the reasons that have been exposed. Yes to the helmet, not to its obligatory character! Indeed, the foreign examples, beginning with the one of Australia just mentioned by the chairman of the committee, show that the obligation to wear helmets is not a solution. On the other hand, the Netherlands, where helmets are not compulsory, is one of the countries where there are the least accidents. Solutions to enhance the safety of users of bicycles and scooters are elsewhere: in dedicated infrastructure and in education. Let us listen to associations that want to promote the use of bicycles and not vote for this new obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u105	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u106	The question has been decided, but I am still presenting this amendment, which seeks to make helmets compulsory for users – who would therefore have the choice of wearing them or not. I take this opportunity to make a point. I understand the arguments put forward, but I would have liked to hear them yesterday. Of course, people, especially those elected, must be trusted. We didn't ask you for anything else yesterday when we wanted permission to drive 90 kilometres per hour on national country roads. Unfortunately, it is hard to see that you only trust when it suits you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u107	It's not the same problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u108	Reciprocality is true, Mr. Descoeur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u109	Of course, but a little coherence would be welcome. We are about to allow city dwellers – I don't say from the Francilians since we have been told that this also concerns other cities – to travel by scooter without helmets, in disregard of the rules of safety, so as not to hinder the development of this mode of transport, whereas yesterday, in the name of safety, we banned the motorists of the Cantal from driving at 90 kilometers per hour on a national road. This is a simple observation, but it does reveal that there are double standards. We could have reached agreement on the two subjects, speed on national roads and the wearing of the helmet by scooter. You have stressed the responsibility of the elected officials who would increase speed on national roads, but are they not the same for those who refuse to impose the use of helmets on scooter users? All the arguments that you put against us in yesterday's debate could be referred back to you today. That's very disappointing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u111	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u112	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u113	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u114	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u115	I welcome the position taken by the minister, who is based on scientifically established facts, both in terms of speed – everyone knows that kinetic energy is growing with the square of speed – and in terms of the nature of the injuries most frequently observed in pedestrians and cyclists or scooter users, respectively. It would be in the honor of politics not to make decisions under the influence of emotion. Let us not compare situations that have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u116	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1483.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u117	This amendment would require operators to ensure that users have a minimum of theoretical and practical skills before travelling on roads and cycle paths. The sharing services of personal vehicles and travel devices should request the user, upon first registration, to provide his/her road safety certificate number or equivalent or higher title number.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u119	Your request is in line with Ms. Kuster's request to raise the minimum age for the use of a scooter. The minister has given you some explanations. We have moved forward in committee the proposal to set this age at 8 years. The Minister committed herself to raising to 12 years of age, which was a good compromise since on a bicycle, wearing a helmet is mandatory up to 12 years of age, which is a way of considering a child under 12 years of age to be a vulnerable person. On the other hand, it would be excessive to set the minimum age at 14. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u120	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u121	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u122	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u123	Between the ages of 12 and 14, some teenagers are still quite unconscious. Could they not be made aware of the risks involved, by teaching them in their school curricula or by taking a small test, the validation of which would attest that they have become aware of the dangerousness of these devices?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u124	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2221.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u125	I am aware that this amendment is going against the tide. My discussions with many users, not just scooters, taught me that limiting the maximum speed of their equipment to 20 kilometres per hour could put them at risk, especially in the face of buses. In certain circumstances, they may need to accelerate to avoid an accident.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u127	Very unfavourable opinion. We have discussed the need to restrain the speed of these gears, it's not now to lift it up! I understand the value of being able to drive at the same speed as other vehicles, but in this case the same arrangements should be made for trucks vis-à-vis cars, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u129	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u130	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u131	Road safety services provide training in primary schools, but so far they only sensitize students to the use of bicycles. Have you thought about equipping these scooter services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u132	Of course! We have to adapt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u133	Amendment No 1326 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u134	Amendment No 1327 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u135	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 3437.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u136	This amendment tends to reduce the penalties incurred by professionals who have derided to more reasonable levels. There are several types of clearing, and I believe there is a difference between a scooter and a assistive bike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u137	Amendment No 1328 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u138	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 3296.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u139	This amendment simply seeks to extend the provisions on the regulation of cyclopedaling undertakings to those of mopeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u141	The regulation of mopeds in accordance with the provisions of Article 19 does not seem to me to be relevant, in particular with regard to the introduction of a prior prescription regime. However, it is suitable for bicycle-taxis. I invite you to withdraw your amendment in order to maintain the balance of the committee's text, otherwise I will be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u143	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u144	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 1203.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u145	This amendment, proposed by Mr Dive, seeks to establish an annual register of vehicle condition and maintenance. Accidents caused by electric scooters will increase in the future. Let us at least ensure their proper functioning and maintenance to avoid any hidden defects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u146	The committee maintained the Senate's deletion of section 20. I have before me an amendment No 2900, the second rectification, to restore it, which is the subject of several sub-amendments. I would point out that on this amendment I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Bérangère Couillard has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u147	This amendment is the result of a very constructive work with the actors in the sector concerned, whether they are taxi or VTC drivers – transport car with driver – as well as with the Ministry of Transport. I particularly welcome our colleague Aurélien Taché, who comes back with the Charter initiative we are proposing. The VTC drivers I met told me all their interest in this charter, but they want us to go further by ensuring that a number of rights are respected in their work. Today, a VTC driver is not always entitled to disconnect. He doesn't necessarily know the price of the race he's going to run, or where he'll have to go. He does not always have the right to refuse a race because he runs the risk of being downgraded or even excluded from platforms. In consultation with the whole group and as mentioned in committee, we decided to grant new rights to VTC drivers, including the right to disconnect and refuse a race if the price seems unacceptable to them. Their working conditions, as well as their living conditions, will be improved: it is important to be able to refuse a race to return home to their family. We have therefore decided to grant them the right to disconnect, the right to know the price of the race and the right to refuse it. It is because we decided to go further that the amendment was withdrawn in committee so that it could be reworked for the public sitting: we added rights to vocational training. VTC drivers must have the right to change their profession and move to new horizons, if they wish. These advances are considerable. [[The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development applauds]] We retain the objective of the charter, which is to offer different social rights, even if we wished not to make it compulsory. Why? Because VTC's main platforms have already committed to implementing these charters. We want the actors to take them into their own hands, so there is no need to resort to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u148	I call Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy to support the two sub-amendments, Nos. 3568 and 3569, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u149	Both are intended to complement the rapporteur's amendment, which we welcome, because the provisions it provides are welcome. Sub-amendment No 3569 specifies that workers refusing one or more proposals for the provision of transport cannot be penalized by the platform in the form of a breach of the contractual relationship. The pressure on these workers today is too high. For the sake of clarification, sub-amendment No 3568 states that the refusal applies to the proposed benefit and not to the benefit itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u150	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3573.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u151	The social protection objective presupposes that the development of complementary and collective guarantees is imposed within the framework of the charter approved, while the possibility for self-employed persons to enter into individual guarantee contracts is rarely exploited for financial reasons or because of their lack of knowledge. The amendment is therefore intended to strengthen the supplementary social protection guarantees that these self-employed workers will be able to benefit from under the Charter. This new provision should not, in fact, be just a blow of a sword in the water. To the extent that it is based on a unilateral approach by the platforms, we must prevent the adoption of this charter from being merely a tool for displaying and communicating the image of these companies and ensure that real content, commensurate with the social issue dealt with by Article 20, is provided for. That is why we propose, on the one hand, to delete in paragraph 32 the words "where appropriate", in order not to make the possibility of providing for complementary social rights purely optional in a charter that is already so, and to ensure that it will systematically include the mention of such rights. [[Gilles Lurton applauds]] It is also essential, in order to avoid a minimalist position which could deprive this approach of its meaning, to draw up a list of the types of rights and protections which may be enjoyed by self-employed workers in the face of the main risks of working life, in particular with regard to the risk of death, loss of turnover due to physical incapacity or retirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u152	The Minister has the floor to support the two sub-amendments, Nos. 3493 and 3494 as corrected, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u153	Before doing so, I would like to present the Government's attitude in this regard. The arrival of the VTC upset the T3P sector – private public passenger transport. They are a new mobility solution, which has proved to be stimulating for taxis, which have improved their level of service, but also for young people who do not want to be employed, because they want more autonomy, and for whom this activity can be a way of accessing employment. Balances have been found, within the framework of the laws Thévenoud and Grandguillaume, which have made it possible to offer stability to this sector and to accompany its development, and that there is no question of calling into question. However, new issues arise, including the relationship between platforms and drivers. The Government is convinced that it is in everyone's interest to make the profession of driver more attractive. This is the interest of the platforms, which find it difficult to attract workers, it is the interest of the customers, who wish, thanks to the development of the sector, to benefit from a better service, and it is, of course, that of the drivers. It seems necessary, it was the subject of the article, and it is the purpose of the amendment and the sub-amendments that we are considering, to protect the independence of drivers, for the reasons that the rapporteur has indicated very well. I refer you to a report from the Institut Montaigne on algorithmic management. Like any worker, drivers must have a right to disconnect, and like any self-employed person in this sector, they must know the race they are about to accept and its price, which is not the case today. There is also a need to encourage platforms to improve drivers' rights and working conditions – this is the subject of the amendment and the sub-amendments that we are considering – and to streamline access to these professions by reducing waiting times in particular – this will be the subject of other amendments. Today, the deadlines for taking the exam differ greatly from department to department: sometimes there is only one exam every four months. It is therefore necessary to make access to this profession more fluid while placing itself in a logic of professionalisation: provisions are made to create real career paths, in relation to the personal training account – CPF. Finally, it is necessary to create the conditions for a quality social dialogue in the sector, on the understanding that its specific characteristics must be taken into account: it is not a stable working collective, such as the one constituted by the employees of an undertaking. We must continue to reflect on the subject: this is the meaning of one of the provisions that we will propose to you. Sub-amendment No 3493 aims to create a procedure for the approval of social responsibility charters by the administration. This procedure will verify that the charter contains specific commitments on each of the subjects provided for in the law, such as the conditions for carrying out the activity, setting a price for the service at a decent level or sharing of information and dialogue between platforms and workers. Moreover, prior consultation of workers is a mandatory condition for the approval of the charter, so the administration will be able to verify the accession of workers to the content of the charter. Once this charter has been approved and published, the resulting practices will not be able to characterize the existence of a subordination link between the platform and the self-employed. It would be paradoxical if the charter increased the risk of requalification: that was obviously not its object. Sub-amendment No 3494, as corrected, in the interests of the proper administration of justice and the consistency of judicial decisions, provides that all disputes relating to the Social Responsibility Charter shall be referred to the judicial judge. The High Court will be the judge of the conformity of this Charter with the provisions of the Labour Code. Decisions made by the TGI on a charter or its approval will be binding on other jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u154	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3574.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u155	The debate on this article illustrates the revolution in the modes and working conditions currently under way with the development of digital technology: it is therefore necessary that the public authorities, in particular we legislators, be vigilant about the sometimes rapid changes in this environment. That is why it seemed essential, in order to adapt our legislative arsenal in the short term, that the Government undertake to submit a report to Parliament within two years: this report would allow us to have an up-to-date diagnosis of the evolution of the situation of the self-employed, in view of their new rights vis-à-vis the platforms, and of the effectiveness of their implementation, so that we can, if necessary, take the necessary corrective measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u156	What is the Committee's opinion on the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u157	I would like to welcome sub-amendments Nos 3568 and 3569 tabled by Mr Zulesi, for the Republic on the move, which Mr Colas-Roy defended. They are also intended to protect users. While it is important for VTC drivers to have the right to refuse a race, it should not be to the detriment of users: from the moment a VTC driver has made the choice to accept a service proposal, for example at 8 euros, he will not be able to cancel it for another, more advantageous, for example at 12 euros, which would be offered to him by another platform – the drivers of VTC most often work today with two or three platforms. With regard to sub-amendment No 3573 of which Mrs Grandjean is the first signatory and which Mrs Rossi has defended, I share her wish for greater social protection: this is precisely the purpose of these charters. On the other hand, listing the content does not seem to me to be compatible with the fact that they concern self-employed workers. I believe, moreover, that a race of the highest bidder will be set up, because, for having discussed at length with the representatives of the VTC platforms, I know that they are eagerly looking for drivers. By playing on the social protection offered by these charters, the platforms will compete to attract drivers. On the other hand, a self-employed person may already have subscribed to a mutual which he considers to be more advantageous than the one proposed by the Charter: he should not be forced to give up. He must be able to negotiate directly with the platform. I am therefore not in favour of such an enumeration. Let's let it happen. In all honesty, I know, for having met the actors at length, that the platforms are willing to create as many protections as possible for the benefit of the self-employed. I see you do not mind, Mr. Rupin: I assure you that the actors are very much taking on these charters. The only thing that prevented them from putting them in place was the risk of requalification into a contract of employment. I would like to reassure everyone that the existence of the charter cannot serve as a criterion for a requalification as an employment contract, except in the event of overflow or subordination. A platform has recently been condemned because it has imposed on drivers their holidays and slots: such practices are and will continue to be reprehensible. The existence of this charter will not prevent a requalification for such reasons, fortunately. On the other hand, let us not prevent platforms from offering better protection to self-employed workers, for fear of requalification into employment contracts. The market has been upset: we need to know how to go in the air of time and to change laws and protections. I am therefore in favour of sub-amendments Nos 3568 and 3569, as well as amendments Nos 3493 and 3494 as corrected, but against sub-amendment No 3573. As for sub-amendment No 3574, parliamentarians are used to asking for as many reports as possible on a large number of subjects. Such an increase is not necessary: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u158	What is the Government's opinion on this amendment and these sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u159	I have already outlined our general philosophy on this issue and will not go back to it. I give a favourable opinion on Amendment No 2900, second rectification, as well as on Subamendments Nos 3568 and 3569. For the same reasons as those set out by the rapporteur, I have an unfavourable opinion on sub-amendment No 3573. Finally, I rely on the wisdom of the House on sub-amendment No 3574.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u160	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u161	This amendment completely rewrites section 20, which had been deleted by the Senate and which had been retained by the committee. We say quite frankly that we are in favour of bringing a little more comfort and safety to the drivers of VTC so that they are normally recognized without constantly being subjected to the pressure of their company. This would encourage fair competition with taxi companies. We cannot, in fact, completely uberize society; We need to give him a number of benchmarks. This amendment is very clear in this respect. However, I cannot help but regret the method followed. It is not normal to rewrite, by way of an amendment, whole articles between the examination in committee and the debate in open session, without having attached all the parliamentary groups to it. You have told us on several occasions in committee, which prompted us to withdraw our amendments, that these subjects will be reworked for the public sitting. It seems to me that you made a lot of commitments, to the point that we were concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u162	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u163	We were wondering how you were going to rework these topics with everyone within a week. We finally realized that you had only worked with yourself – perhaps with the La République group on the move, but, in any case, not with us. We regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u164	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u165	I shall sum up this debate as follows: either we fight uberization or we admit it and we accompany it. This amendment makes it very clear, in my view, that it is willing to go with it. Of course, it will make some progress – even if the rules laid down are not binding – but we lose the opportunity to say loud and clear that we do not want the uberization of society. The self-employed we are talking about should actually be wage-earners. If they aren't, it's not because of them, because they want to have the status of self-employed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u166	Yes, it's a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u167	... but because the system of uberization forces them to work to the task worthy of the nineteenth century, with ever less rights. It is for these reasons that we have tabled amendments which will then be discussed because, unlike the rapporteur, we are not reassured that the relationship between people and platforms in terms of employment contracts cannot be reclassified. As far as the amendment under discussion is concerned, we shall abstain. While we should engage in a frontal fight against the uberization of society, you are merely domesticating the wild beast that is ruining the social protection and guarantees of the people who work in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u168	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u169	We can rejoice at the progress made by this article, as re-established, which will secure relations between workers and platforms, while creating new rights. I recall that this section had been deleted in the Senate. We thank the rapporteur for reintroducing all these provisions. For my part, in committee, I wanted to make the Social Responsibility Charter mandatory, which would have led employees and companies to set themselves up around a table and would have made it possible to change behaviour, in particular those of certain platforms. However, this amendment introduces essential elements to promote price transparency, allow workers to refuse a race and freely decide on their time, in accordance with their independent status. We can therefore welcome these advances, which constitute new rights for workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u170	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u171	Whether or not they are approved by the administration, the charters cannot replace social dialogue or meet the real needs of workers and platforms. I would like to make myself the interpreter of the National Digital Council, which "calls on the Government to abandon this mechanism, which will not adequately protect workers and, worse, will create an unbalanced balance of forces in favour of platforms. The purpose of this provision is to cut the grass below the ground of case law, which requires the requalification of these workers as employees. This is unacceptable. That is why the GDRvoter Group will oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u172	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u173	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u174	We are dealing with an essential subject. There are several problems in the market for on-demand vehicle service. One of the first difficulties faced by VTC drivers is that the commissions requested by the platforms are too high and the races are therefore not sufficiently remunerated. A number of drivers were trapped after investing. In order to repay their vehicle purchased on credit and live in their business, they are forced to spend a lot of hours. On the other hand, in this largely deregulated market, the supply is in surplus, which lowers the income level of both taxi and VTC drivers and lowers the value of taxi licences, particularly in Paris. This article is therefore in the right direction, as it will improve the social protection of self-employed drivers of VTC. However, it does not go far enough because it does not address the central issue of the driver's income level. I welcome Amendment No 2900, second correction, by the rapporteur, which introduces a start to social regulation by the organising authorities. Madam Minister, does this amendment also concern Île-de-France Mobilitys? Is it the organizing authority that will approve the social responsibility charters? In the long run, it will be necessary to go further in the regulation by giving more powers to the AOM – in particular to Île-de-France Mobilitys – which could thus modulate the number of authorisations. This would make it possible to find a regulated market, in which the actors could live well from their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u175	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u176	I do not really see what these provisions come to do in the text. Indeed, for the past few years, I have had the feeling that there has been a lot of talk about labour law, about contractual relations. We would have liked, to echo the words of our colleague Eric Coquerel, to have discussed in this House a specific piece of legislation that could be called "salariate 2.0". I'm not fully convinced of the beautiful story you told us. It is true that, on paper, originally – a few years ago – the collaborative economy, the economy of sharing, flourished the fairy tale. But, in reality, we have seen it, it has often turned into a meeting of precariousness. Certain scandalous situations experienced by employees or persons caught in the net of a form of uberisation have been repeatedly mentioned, commented on and extensively documented, in particular by press articles and reports. They have also fueled the judicial chronicle and have sometimes led to requalifications in employment contracts. I understand your intention, but I fear that, despite some progress, it will lead to a form of institutionalisation of precariousness. I have doubts, in particular, about this form of transfer of responsibility to the State by subrogation. I fear that this will appear as a way of helping Uber or, more generally, the platforms. I would like to be well aware of the risk surrounding these provisions. It is no coincidence that senators wanted to remove them from the text. I remember that the bill contained different provisions, and I welcome the work of our colleague. It seems to me that we should not confuse speed with precipitation. Like Jean-Marie Sermier, I regret that we have not been involved in the work carried out since the examination in committee. Many of our colleagues have been very involved in mobility and transport issues, while others have been involved in labour law issues. We could have drafted a slightly stronger, a little more comprehensive text that would have expanded the angle of view, and that would have at last really been a bill on wage earner 2.0.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u177	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u178	There is a need to better manage the activity of VTCs. The Thevenoud laws – on taxis and transport cars with drivers – and Grandguillaume – on regulation, accountability and simplification in the particular public passenger transport sector – have failed to do so. This amendment aims to clarify the social rights of VTC drivers. The relationship between these workers and their platforms is characterized by legal uncertainties that need to be removed. The courts sought to determine, on the basis of the identification of possible subordination, whether these self-employed persons were, in fact, employees. They have made contrasting decisions. Other amendments will make additional proposals to strengthen the protection of these mobility actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u179	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u180	I am pleased that, in reviewing this bill, we can once again debate the issue of the rights of platform workers, particularly those relating to mobility, which are indisputably specific. This form of mobility has become an activity rooted in the economy, in society, and is undergoing strong development. It allows many young people to benefit from job opportunities that they would certainly not have known otherwise, and for some, to earn a good living, others, less. However, this activity is certainly not adequately regulated today; It calls for the definition of new rules adapted to this new economy, to these new self-employed workers – these are, I insist, self-employed workers. You will not find a single driver or deliverer – or at the margin – to tell you that he aspires to an employee status. On the other hand, they ask for protections, which appear to be legitimate: there are real phenomena of precarisation; Drivers and delivery agents are in a specific situation, as they are economically closely linked to one, two or three companies. The relationship between them and these societies needs to be rebalanced on several points. The charter can be a good tool for doing so, provided we know exactly what we expect. Indeed, these charters, which aim to encourage corporate social responsibility, should not replace public social protection. I would remind you that in the law on freedom to choose one's professional future, where we put this issue under discussion for the first time, we created public rights for self-employed workers, including a tax-funded right to unemployment – by the CSG. In the future, we will have to go further in this direction. However, many issues could be addressed by these charters, such as the working conditions that bind workers to the platform or how a platform can break its labour relations, which are not currently framed and which the charter will provide for. Today, for example, a Uber driver – I take this example because the platform is very well known – does not always know why it can be dereferenced, or how the price to which it can claim is calculated. Tomorrow, the charters will let him know. This will be the case for a whole series of other points. Charters may also contain advances in social rights in the event of accidents at work or sickness, which would be very useful. However, a number of rights must be added to the law "in hard form". This is what Bérangère Couillard has done, whose work I would like to pay tribute to, by integrating the right to disconnect, the right to refuse a race and the right to know the price of a race, which must not be optional and must therefore not be provided for in the charter, but in the law. There is a foundation of rights to be built here. It's very good, and you even have to go a little further. I will therefore propose some amendments aimed at building a right to representation of these workers and the right to a minimum price. However, let us bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that they are self-employed, even if they are sometimes economically disadvantaged. It is up to us to build social rights to better accompany them and to put them in a position to negotiate with these platforms, but within the new framework that is that of self-employment and this economy of platforms, and not with old recipes that, while they can be very useful for the world of classic wage earners, are not adapted to this economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u181	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u182	I would like to highlight the conditions under which the work was done with our colleagues in this chamber. For talking to Mr.Didier Mandelli, who was a rapporteur in the Senate, I know that if honourable senators chose to delete this clause, it was to rework it, with the same concern to go further than the proposed charter. We are taking a huge step forward in proposing new rights, which Aurélien Taché stressed in particular. We come from afar, however, because the VTC drivers did not have an effective right to disconnect or refuse to race, nor the right to know the price of the race they were going to accept, commission deducted. This is therefore a very important step forward. There is also an obligation for platforms to make transparency on the working conditions of their drivers: every year they will have to make public the working conditions of their employees,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u183	They are not employees, they are self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u184	[[Smile]] ...forgiving: self-employed people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u185	Spotlight lapsus, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u186	Revealer for you, Mr. Lecoq! The platforms will therefore make public the working conditions of the self-employed with whom they work. So they'll have to tell them how much a VTC driver earns for what work time. This will allow drivers to compare their working conditions, and thus also to compete with platforms, as things are now rather blurred and drivers do not necessarily know what the working conditions are applied by the different platforms. It cannot be said, as I have heard in this Chamber, that these measures would be a boost for the platforms, particularly for Uber, the most well-known of them. I can assure you that the introduction of a right to disconnect, a right to refuse to race and a right to know the price of the race, as well as the obligation of transparency on the self-employed with whom the platforms work are not a boost for the latter – to keep you from hiding anything, they are not very happy with this measure. Of course, the operators of the platforms were waiting for measures to further protect the self-employed, and so they are ready to sign the charter, but I assure you that with the new rights brought about by the drafting of this article, it is not tomorrow that they would have signed such a proposal. So we cannot be taxed for writing a pro-platform article. [[Mr Bruno Millienne, rapporteur, and Mrs Barbara Pompili, chairman of the committee, applaud]] This article is intended to defend the drivers of VTC, to improve their working conditions and living conditions in general. We will discuss further improvements that could be made, but we are already doing a very important job here. Many changes have taken place in this sector for several years, as it is a changing market. There was the Thevenoud law in 2014, the Grandguillaume law in 2016 and we have now, in 2019, this considerable progress. Let's let it happen. There is already something very honourable about this in order to move things forward and improve the working conditions of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u187	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u188	Mr Coquerel, we must accept the idea that not all our young people want to have paid employment, even if it is a bit disturbing, given the benchmarks we have had. In my previous duties, at RATP, I sometimes had discussions with VTC drivers, to whom I said that their job was hard and that they could come to RATP, where we had difficulty recruiting, for example, machinists. I told them that it was great and that they would have a status and social protection. However, a number of young people do not want to do so. They don't want to have fixed schedules and want to choose when they work. They want independent status. We must accept this situation, which simply corresponds to reality, and find ways to enable those young people who do not want to be employed and who want autonomy to move towards employment. Our responsibility is to ensure that they go towards employment and that they are offered decent working conditions and a professional path, so that tomorrow young people are satisfied with entering the labour market and find a career path there. Mr Rupin, the charters will be approved by the Ministry of Labour, as they contain protections and rights for platform workers. Mr Bouillon, you rightly pointed out that the provision originally appeared in a labour law and that it was in that context that Mr Taché introduced this amendment. We have considered this with my colleague Muriel Pénicaud, and we see that we must finally distinguish between sectors. Firstly, it is not new that there are special rules on social rights and the framework of working time in the field of transport – the existence of special rules is even a generality. In addition, there are two types of situations. Indeed, a number of platforms that are developing are misappropriating paid work. This is particularly the case in the catering and building sectors, where up to now there have been salaried jobs and where there are now platforms that make wage employment drift towards a false self-employment status. In the area of mobility, the situation is different, as these are new activities and new jobs. Muriel Pénicaud and I have therefore chosen to limit the application of these provisions to mobility platforms: this is what the rapporteur's amendment expresses. There is no need to encourage the development of platforms in other sectors, which engage in embezzlement of paid work, but in those sectors where new jobs and services appear, it is necessary to allow everything to be done in good conditions, with professionalising paths and quality paths for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u189	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u190	Minister, I would like to comment on the reality that you are describing. Last year, 80% of the first jobs were in CSDs. It is thus clear, year after year, that the precariousness of employment, the CSDs and the work that you call "independent", and which I call "uberization" for my part, continues to develop and are linked to the deregulation which affects the professions one after the other, and even the paid professions. So you can't tell me that all this meets the young people's desire. Young people, I have a lot around me. Today, when you are looking for a first job, you are asked to register as a self-entrepreneur. That's the reality. I do not even want to condemn companies that do, because they are often in competition with others and, if they do not, they will not be competitive in tendering. The problem is, therefore, that of a global deregulation of society. Without wanting to caricature you, I will remind you that, in the 1980s, when I was young myself, I was already hearing this speech. We were told that if there were more and more temporary workers, it was because people wanted to be free, and we had to "release the energies," as you say today. But that's not true! If there are more and more temporary workers and CSDs and these forms of work have developed considerably, it is because the pressure of unemployment and the difficulty in finding a job do not leave the possibility of acquiring another job. Don't reverse the chicken and the egg! Next, we will see what young people will prefer, eventually, independent trades. Indeed, combating uberization does not mean that the status of self-employed must be abolished. What we are asking you is to re-qualify false jobs as self-employed as paid jobs, and in particular to leave the choice: you will see that most people will choose to be wage-earners. Unless you attack social security contributions, which you describe as "burdens" – a name that gives the impression that they are useless – it is ultimately possible to convince people only by receiving a certain amount as self-employed they are better paid than when they had social protection. After a while, however, you know as I do, the great losers will be those who will not have contributed their entire lives and who will have no retirement or unemployment benefits. It's the world of uberization – and this world, I don't think it's the dream of young people today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u191	I put to the vote Amendment No 2900, second rectification, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u192	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 38 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 34 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u193	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2742 and 1027, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to support Amendment No. 2742.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u194	It tends to facilitate the conditions for organising examinations for VTC drivers. The rapporteur told us earlier that the platforms lacked candidates. Today, however, the law organizes a monopoly situation in which only chambers of trade and craft can organise the necessary examinations to become a driver of VTC. All parties agree that this situation is not satisfactory and does not facilitate access to this profession, which has many jobs at the key. The long waiting times are a brake for many drivers. Following the debate in committee, and in particular the amendments that I was defending, the Group of the European People's Party proposes that the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts should be allowed to delegate the organisation of these examinations to approved persons, which would make it possible to increase the number of sessions. In this way, particularly well-established actors in the territories – such as La Poste, which already organises the passing of certain tests of the driving licence – could propose these examinations and, thus, allow to meet the demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u195	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1027.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u196	This amendment by our colleague Virginie Duby-Muller also proposes to extend to other actors the possibility of organising examinations for the profession exercised by VTC drivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u198	It is indeed necessary to fluidize access to the examination; This point really came out in the hearings that I was able to conduct. I have looked at this with great attention: the Chamber of Crafts and Crafts must remain a pilot, and local suppliers can then organise the examination. Amendment No 2742 tabled by Mrs Riotton seems to me the most appropriate. The aim is to delegate to local operators such as La Poste, who are already organising the examination of the road code: it is therefore quite in their cords. Since it is necessary to fluidize access to the exam, let's start with this formula. Amendment No 2742 is the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u199	I call Mr Pahun to support Amendment No. 2229.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u200	I am defending this amendment by my colleague Florence Lasserre-David, who had to leave at the moment. He intends to fill a legal vacuum left by the adoption of the laws Thévenoud and Grandguillaume. They have clearly established that the activities of maraude and electronic maraude are reserved for taxis only. The market for transport by prior reservation, subject to free competition, would have deserved a clarification of the conditions of the prior reservation, in order to distinguish it well from the market for electronic maraud. By Decree No. 2013-1251 of 27 December 2013, the Government had attempted to remedy this legal vacuum by setting a time limit of 15 minutes between the reservation of the vehicle and the actual take-over of the passenger(s), but this decree was annulled by the Council of State. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to clarify that the prior reservation must be fixed by decree in the Council of State and is characterised by a minimum period between the reservation of the vehicle and the care of the passengers, regardless of the category of persons involved in the particular public transport of the person concerned. The aim is to be able to distinguish this activity from that of electronic maraude, which falls within the scope of the monopoly recognized by taxis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u202	Unfavorable notice because this only creates a constraint for users: set a minimum booking time before the VTC arrives makes it very difficult to use this service. Clients obviously have the opportunity to take a taxi and they are happy to do so, but if they need to take a VTC, they need to be able to do so with such ease. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u204	The balance of the sector is based on the fact that the maraude is reserved for taxis. There is therefore no question of calling this into question; This is an important point. On the other hand, imposing a constraint that would degrade the service for VTC users does not seem to me a good idea. Let's keep this balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u205	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 2292.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u206	Minister, we come to a number of amendments supported by the large taxi unions. I know that you have met these organizations, which are very committed to the application of the Grandguillaume law. They are particularly committed to ensuring that all implementing decrees and regulations are taken: it is a real requirement for them. You have given an answer on this subject – perhaps you will come back to it? –, but how can we not be struck by the situations of great economic difficulty of taxi drivers in the face of violent competition and deregulation that do not reflect a calmed evolution of the sector? We are aware of the very heavy financial commitments of taxi drivers, whose licences have reached staggering sums before all this collapses. Many taxi drivers have been ruined and many work in social conditions that no one would want to defend. The purpose of this amendment is to limit, which I support, access to taxi terminals. It aims to require VTCs wishing to take care of a customer in a terminal to justify a prior reservation of at least one hour. Taxi drivers have to queue particularly long in the terminals, while being violently competed by the VTC: even if Aéroports de Paris has set up an alert system and tightened the controls, there is still a distance from the lipcut. This amendment would provide adequate support for taxi drivers in air terminals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u208	There is no justification to advocate what you are advocating in the terminal but not in the railway stations: in my opinion, it doesn't make sense. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u210	This would constitute a barrier to pre-booking market access for VTCs, which has no objective justification. I would like to reassure you once again on the decrees issued pursuant to the Grandguillaume Act: the decree made pursuant to article 1, which came into force, gives the platforms the obligation to verify that their drivers are in good standing. In this regard, we have announced to all VTC drivers that we want, by the end of the year, to replace all VTC cards with secure cards. We know that fraud problems exist, so it is important to switch to secure cards. There is also an important decree pursuant to article 2 of the Grandguillaume Act, which requires the communication of data by platforms, in particular for statistical and control purposes. The CNIL – the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – has looked very carefully at this decree since it took more than six months. The advice of the CNIL is now in the Council of State and we will be able to quickly adopt this decree which will complement the application of the Grandguillaume law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u211	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1029.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u212	This amendment by my colleague Virginie Duby-Muller aims to simplify the current examination process to become a VTC driver. We know there's a wait, a need. While we are well aware of the need to regulate this sector in order to avoid its uberisation, VTCs are nevertheless a necessity in terms of mobility and we need trained drivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u214	It is possible to change the content of the review, but it is a matter of the regulatory level: this does not have to be included in the law. The balance of the Grandguillaume law appears satisfactory. There is therefore no need to amend it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u216	Same opinion. While I share the concern about fluidizing and reducing the time taken to pass the examination, there are other more appropriate avenues. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u217	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1809.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u218	The purpose of this amendment is also to streamline access to the examination by simplifying a lengthy and cumbersome administrative procedure for exercising the profession of VTC driver. It is simply intended to allow this procedure and the procedures for issuing the VTC professional card to be carried out in a dematerialised manner; It seems easy, but it is still not. Dematerialization would also reduce the processing time and associated management costs. Madam Minister, you were in favour of this amendment in committee, while wishing to go further than what I had proposed, which is aimed at the issue of the professional card. I hope that we will find ourselves on this goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u220	Mrs Riotton, I share the intention of this amendment, which aims to simplify the procedures and to better combat documentary fraud. The procedure is now dematerialized for the examination and production of the card; Only the passage to the prefecture is missing. Mrs Luquet's more comprehensive amendment, which also concerns the creation of a national database, seems preferable to me. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment in favour of Amendment No 2970 by Mrs Luquet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u222	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u223	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to support Amendment No. 2970.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u224	I would like to thank my colleague for the withdrawal of her amendment. Professionals in the particular public passenger transport sector regularly observe the length of the procedures for carrying out this activity and the limits of the control capacity to ensure compliance with the regulations. There is a need to simplify procedures, streamline the missions of the administrative services and establish a reliable information system. The purpose of this amendment is therefore the creation of an information and management system with a database, the dematerialisation of procedures, through a single window, so as also to facilitate the supervision of professionals and to combat fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u225	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 2294.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u226	This amendment was designed in the context of meetings between our colleague El Guerrab and the taxi unions. Our colleague, Member of Parliament for the French established outside France, being on mission today, he cannot defend him; So I will do it with great pleasure. This amendment aims to make the principle of non-dismissibility of taxi licences issued after 1 October 2014 in case of force majeure – death, disability more flexible. The Thevenoud Act provides that licences issued after the date of enactment of the Act are not transferable and must be operated personally by the holder, after consultation and with the support of taxi organizations. In many cases, however, the holder of the taxi parking permit – ADS – may be unable to operate this licence in whole or in part due to death, serious disability or long-term illness. The purpose of this amendment is to remedy these cases of force majeure by limiting the obligation of personal exploitation to licences which have been the subject of a first application for registration after 1 October 2014 and by allowing the holder of the SDA to operate it in the place of the deceased or unfit holder or to rent it to a third party fulfilling the conditions for exercising the profession of taxi.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u227	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u228	In order to avoid any risk of diversion, it seems to me better not to go back to the incessibility regime introduced in 2014. If derogations are introduced, their control will go back to the 12,000 municipalities that issue parking permits, which can be complex to implement. I would remind you that this authorisation lasts for five years, contrary to authorisations issued before 2014. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u229	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 2298.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u230	This amendment tends to dissociate the taxi licence from the vehicle for salaried taxis or managing tenants. The Thevenoud law had changed the status of management rental in order to improve the economic and social situation of tenant taxi drivers, which was a real scandal – I am astonished that all this was not controlled much earlier. The Grandguillaume law of 29 December 2016 reinstated the vehicle in the calculation of the management lease, based on an opinion of the Conseil d'État. By this opinion, the Council of State considers that it does not seem possible to admit the management of the parking permit alone, without including in it the specially equipped vehicle which the law describes as a taxi, to which this authorization is linked. However, it is legally incorrect to consider that the activity of the taxi, regardless of the status under which it is carried out by the driver, is linked as much to the parking permit as to the vehicle. What makes the taxi activity is the parking permit, it's not the vehicle. Moreover, the vehicle and the parking permit are separable. This is why a taxi can be driven personally and a parking permit can be operated on any type of vehicle that meets the technical requirements. Finally, linking the rental of the licence to the rental of the vehicle puts at risk the financial viability of the tenant drivers in a context of strong competition due to the arrival of the VTCs as it increases the average cost of managing the rental from 30% to 50%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u232	He'll be unfavorable. This amendment separates the vehicle from the parking permit but it is not possible for the tenant to rent the vehicle without permission to park.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u233	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 2296.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u234	The purpose of this amendment is to take into account the date of entry in the taxi licence issuance register in order to determine the censability of a licence – i.e. to have been issued before 1 October 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u235	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 2299.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u236	The aim of this amendment is to limit the collection of taxi races by bank card from a minimum amount of EUR 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u238	This is really an unfavorable opinion. Why would we make a difference between drivers and other traders? It is also important to be able to pay any amount by credit card.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u240	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u241	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u242	I obviously accept these arguments, but we should also check all taxi drivers. Obligations are not always put in place. I have finished with the amendments on taxi drivers, and you see, Madam Minister, that there are still a lot of problems and that, unfortunately, the latest laws have not solved everything. While there had been a commitment to the conditions for the buy-back of taxi licences in the face of particularly large losses, it was true that it was complicated from a budgetary point of view. I hope that we can put all the taxi drivers' organisations around the table to find ways to support this profession on a sustainable basis. It is clear that the means of combating fraud are very inadequate. Taxi drivers still feel like they are suffering great injustices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u243	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support Amendment No. 3092.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u244	This amendment aims to strengthen the transparency obligations of the platforms vis-à-vis the workers themselves. Today they owe fair and clear information to consumers, but when you're a driver or delivery driver, you don't have the opportunity to know the terms and conditions of employment, the average price of the races, the influence of performance in the assignment of missions and the conditions of access to training for each of these platforms. A large public information portal could be created which would be fed by data transmitted by the platforms to the administrative authority, including data on the average activity of these workers, in order to inform their choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u245	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u246	I share the objective of your amendment. However, Article 20, as re-established, provides for the publication of indicators, which will be defined by decree in the Council of State, does not seem necessary to me to add a new obligation to that already provided for. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal, if not an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u248	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u249	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2336 and 2846, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2336.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u250	There is always some strangeness in the order in which the amendments are presented, since this is in fact an amendment to be withdrawn from Amendment No 2323, which will be considered a little later. It aims to ensure that, through digital platforms, the price of a service cannot be lower than the hourly SMIC in force. In the United Kingdom, the London courts imposed on Uber the payment of its drivers at the minimum wage, de facto recognizing the link of subordination. It seems to us normal for the Ministry responsible for the economy to be able to set a minimum tariff, which guarantees minimum protection as the SMIC is for employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u251	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support Amendment No. 2846.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u252	The aim of this amendment is to introduce a minimum race price for platform workers as is practiced in New York, for example. Today the platforms freely set the minimum price for one race, very variable from one platform to another. There is also price volatility that can be very detrimental to the activity and income of drivers. This minimum price, which would be fixed by decree after consultation with the actors, would seem to me to be a major step forward for these workers. Being able to know the price of a race and whether or not to accept it as provided for by the provisions which the rapporteur has put in place is already a real step forward, but I believe that we need to go a little further and that we could under the social responsibility of the platforms imagine moving forward on a minimum price in the race.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u253	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u254	I share your goal, which is to ensure a decent income for VTC drivers – and delivery people, who are often forgotten. This is essential, but it is the objective of Article 20 as we have re-established it. It is not a question of setting a minimum price for the service but of giving delivery agents and drivers the information on the minimum price they can collect while guaranteeing them the right to refuse the race. This will mechanically lead to rising prices. When platforms realize that 10 to 20% of races will be refused, they will be afraid to lose revenue. In any case, that is what we believe. There are also geographical and economic disparities between platforms, all of which do not pay for services in the same way, making setting a minimum price complex. That is why it will be a request for withdrawal or an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u256	These occupations can be attractive to young people, provided they can expect a decent income from them. It is necessary to move forward in order to ensure that both professionalising paths and income and working conditions are satisfactory for young people. However, in the case of self-employed workers, there is no minimum price of the benefit. Thus your plumber can agree to do a construction site at a fairly low price because this fits well into his load plan and he thinks it interesting to ensure at the margin this service. We also need to have this in mind. It's not as simple as it might seem even if the goal is to end up with a decent income. That's why we're moving on two tracks. The first is the charter, under which platforms and drivers could negotiate a decent income, the second being the important advance introduced by the rapporteur which is for drivers to be able to choose their races informed. These important steps should be in line with the concerns of the drivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u257	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u258	It is true that this question of a minimum price is complicated in the case of self-employed workers, but today it is the platforms that fix prices, which is a special feature. I hear your explanation, Madam Minister and the rapporteur, that platforms with very different practices will find it difficult to set a single price by regulation. We will see what the platforms are doing to explain the price and how practices will evolve following the adoption of the rapporteur's amendment. I myself will present an amendment to encourage social dialogue between workers and platforms, which would be another way of changing prices. I can hear that we may not yet be fully mature for this, but let us still keep this objective in mind, the prices being fixed by the platforms although they are self-employed, which must guide our reflections. I will withdraw my amendment, but I think that we must continue to work in this direction to ensure that workers have all the conditions for a decent income under all circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u259	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u260	Even if you are trying to regulate a jungle, the trend is towards deregulation, we have seen it well in recent years. There will always be people who, for reasons of "survival" – forgive this word – will agree to earn less. Always. I, who fight against precariousness, have always heard citizens around me say, "Yes, but it's better than nothing. It is not possible for us to accompany such an approach! To live, minimum wages must be set, work must be paid a minimum, and platforms must be forced to do so. Total freedom of remuneration is not possible! We must therefore work in this direction, and that is why, in some cases, the concept of self-employed workers is a bit of a mess. Workers are in fact subject to this type of job because they cannot do otherwise. The more so, the worse society will be, the more we do not want. I wanted to say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u261	Thank you for these exciting debates. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-07-O1263.u262	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the mobility policy bill. The meeting is adjourned.
