ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2187, 2243).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with section 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u3	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u4	I would like to draw your attention to the particular situation in French Polynesia. You know that we have a certain degree of autonomy enshrined in the Organic Law of 27 February 2004. However, this bill could affect the cultural identity of the Polynesian population, a population for which paternal filiation is paramount in ensuring genealogy and quasi-sacred connection with the family land of origin. Polynesian culture irrigates local law: attests to this the law of 26 July 2019 establishing the French Polynesian court, setting up the Polynesian land individual and authorizing the distribution by family strain – a subject that is dear to you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and which you have perfect control of. It would appear that the amendment made by this text in relation to filiation prejudices our cultural identity, in particular with regard to the recognition of the land titles called "tomite", which are the concrete mark of the ancestors, the tupuna, from which we derive our identity. That is why I ask you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, to reassure us by showing particular attention to the situation of the communities in the Pacific, particularly French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u6	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u7	With Article 4, we will give all children who will be conceived through medically assisted procreation – LDCs – the same protection, regardless of the sexual orientation of their parents, through a filiation guaranteeing them the same rights, which we can welcome. However, children born to a couple of women prior to the promulgation of this text will be left in a precarious situation. If the law does not have retroactive effect, it is up to the legislator to determine what seems to him to be the most correct, especially since transitional arrangements can be put in place to correct a particular flaw. If we simply recognize a sonage only to future families, we will create inequality with regard to children already born: they will not be protected and will keep their filiation incomplete, with the possibility of seeing a mother and sometimes a sibling disappear from their lives, as already happens in families composed and defeated before the promulgation of the law opening marriage to couples of same sex. The precarious situation of children born to a couple of women had so far been justified only by the fact that in France the LDC was not accessible to their parents. How can we justify this situation from now on? More importantly, how can this inequality be justified in comparison to other children who will also be conceived by LDCs? Understand that this difficulty comes directly from the present text, because it is indeed from the opening of access to the LDC that the establishment of a new system of filiation results, and it is because this system concerns only a part of the children that this discrimination will be created at the expense of those who are born too early. I will defend several amendments proposing solutions to give these children the safety they deserve. This will allow you to choose between extending an existing legal regime, possession of a state, and setting up a transitional system. These options for late recognition of filiation do not represent any burden on the State, they do not remove rights to anyone and certainly will not upset our country. On the other hand, they could greatly relieve the families concerned. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the GDR group]] Simone Veil said that social reforms are still taking place in pain. Well, let us allow ourselves to contradict it and try to reach out to these families; Let us show wisdom but also political courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u8	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u9	Article 4 is particularly important in that it deals with a subject as sensitive and structuring for our society as filiation. The system of early declaration of will, the DAV, as envisaged by the original draft law, with the creation of a new Title VII bis of the Civil Code, was not sufficient and raised many questions, many concerns. I would therefore like to commend the quality of listening shown by the Government, which has led to a rewriting of the article taking into account the various remarks made during the hearings. Changes in the law of filiation are necessary – all agree – in order to draw the consequences of expanding access to the LDC for women's couples and single women. However, these developments must take place in a calm manner and ultimately ensure legal certainty for all parents and for all children. Article 4, in its new wording, with the creation of a new chapter in Title VII of Book I of the Civil Code on filiation, seems to us to be more balanced. However, it remains imperfect in our eyes and we will have to look again at this complex subject – I am thinking of the legal regime which, in my view, remains derogatory for women's couples who will have to make joint and early recognition, where the current regime, provided for in article 311-20 of the Civil Code for couples composed of a man and a woman, already bases the filiation of children born of reproductive medical assistance – AMP – on the consent expressed by their two parents. The aim will therefore be to achieve a more secure and stable system for all families. Moreover, let us close the door in a clear and definitive way to the gestation for others – GPA – a red line that must never be crossed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u10	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u11	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to tell you the story of a couple in my constituency, in the north-east of Mayenne, and to have your opinion on a situation which, unfortunately, is not unique. They're married. The wife can no longer bear a child, since her uterus was taken from her as a result of the birth of their first child. Both gave their gametes in order to design an embryo that was carried by a woman in the United States where GPA is legal. Nine months later, they became the biological parents of a beautiful child who looks a lot like his mother. That child, they wanted it, they wanted it. They followed the pregnancy; They got involved. Today, they raise him with all their love. But a veil darkens this happiness because, in France, only the biological father is recognized by the civil status as the father. For the moment, this woman, who has carried this parental project with her husband and has given her gametes, is not recognized as the mother of the child – she is only the wife of the father. You're going to talk to me about childbirth, biological likelihood... but do you think that the one who gave birth can really be considered the mother when she didn't feed any parenting projects? I would remind you that we have adopted an amendment to include this concept of parenting in the legislation. In addition, this woman who gave birth has no biological connection to this child. What is the weight of biological likelihood in terms of biological reality, parenting reality, societal reality? Perhaps, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you will answer me that this mother – and I say "mom" because she is the mother of this child – can establish a mode of filiation with her child by adopting her. Maybe you'll tell me about other ways of establishing filiation. But do you think this is an acceptable answer for this family and all those in the same situation? Do you find that it is an answer to the height of our country that prides itself on being the country of human rights? [[Mr. Raphaël Gérard applauds]] Madam Keeper of the Seals, agree to recognize that the one who must be the mother of this child in civil status is this woman who conceived with her husband a parental project and gave her gametes so that their son could see the day. We cannot continue to ignore these inhuman situations on the grounds that GPA is not legal in France. In this case, it is not a matter of legalizing the GPA, but of advancing the law in a spirit of justice, fairness, in order to ensure the protection of the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u12	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u13	We are looking at provisions which, you will agree, have little to do with bioethics, but which are made indispensable by the adoption of Article 1 and the extension of the LDC to single women and women's couples. You have tried, both in the initial version of the text and in the version resulting from the work of the special commission, to solve an equation in reality that is almost impossible to solve: to stick the new conception of the relationship of parents to the child with the rather implacable logic of the law of filiation. Indeed, through the expansion of the LDC, one can, because individual will or the will of couples prevail over biological reality and likelihood, imagine two parents or a single woman raising a child in very good conditions – material, of love – conditions through which it can flourish. It is this social contract, as described by President Mélenchon, that must take precedence over the older conception of the family, based on biological reality and likelihood. All this holds up until we get to the questions of filiation. At this point, reality catches up with you, regardless of the theoretical legal structure that you are trying to develop to allow a single woman or two women to use the MPA for reasons other than the need to compensate for infertility. In the end, you create situations that never lead to respect for equality, especially between two women, one of whom could be called a "organic" mother. As we have seen in the special committee and during the debates that preceded its work, a first mechanism, the early declaration of will, created a form of discrimination. Only women's couples would have used it and, when mentioned on the civil registration document, this indicated a different relationship of filiation, for example, from that in force for heterosexual couples using GPA with third-party donors. Of course, it was not the purpose of the device, which was, on the contrary, to protect the bond of filiation in the same way, regardless of the nature of the couple using the AMP. We were at the point where associations called for the early declaration of will to be extended to all couples in order to eliminate the discrimination in question, which would eventually discriminate against heterosexual couples using GPA with third-party donors. I recall that, for the latter, the act before notary does not create filiation: it makes it irrefragable and indisputable unless one manages to demonstrate that the third party donor is not... I would have liked to use the word "father," but it's better to talk about "person who makes the child born." You have ruled out this problem, but you will find the same difficulties with the device you are proposing. You impose on the couple's two wives an early recognition of filiation that makes the latter indisputable. Yet, for the woman carrying the child, that is not what normally creates filiation. It goes back to the principle of biological reality. There is obvious discrimination between, on the one hand, the single woman who will resort to the AMP, for whom the filiation stems from the fact that she bore the child and that she gave birth – pregnancy and childbirth mean that a woman becomes a mother, so there is no act of recognition, as well as in a heterosexual couple, whether or not there has been recourse to the AMP – and, on the other hand, the couple of women for which you are going to impose on the woman who carried and gave birth the child to recognize it. Thus, we see that biological reality and likelihood always have a voice in the chapter: that is why it is still possible to contest that the third-party donor is the real parent of the child. You probably have only a coherent solution, which some will haveten to defend. It involves applying the common law to women's couples, i.e. to ensure that they are treated in the same way as a heterosexual couple using an MPA per third party donor. In the case of heterosexual couples, acceptance of the gift before the notary means that the mother giving birth is the mother in the civil register and that if the couple is married, the presumption of paternity is applied to the father. If the couple is not married, an act of recognition is used, as can be done in other situations, but the whole remains based on biological likelihood. The limits of the possibility are reached in the case of women's couples, since the reality of the law of filiation from biological reality has been completely disconnected. The principle of presumption cannot be applied to the second mother. In essence, there can be no "presumption of maternity" – and even less one can imagine a presumption of paternity within women's couples. In the end, whatever your choice, you will have to face situations where filiation will be established on the basis of will – it will remain questionable if the biological reality of the third-party donor is not the biological reality of the breeder – and other situations where the woman will remain the mother in the sense of civil status, because she will have borne and delivered the child naturally, I was going to say, in any case in conformity with current law. You will not be able to find the right balance, and I believe that, unfortunately, we must prepare ourselves for a number of disputes related to the inability to deal with a purely theoretical situation together and a reality that a child is ultimately the product of a man and a woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u15	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u16	The examination of article 4 must still allow us to make progress in our journey towards the opening up of a new right, so that it is truly effective in terms of equality, security and protection of children. That said, the road already covered is enormous. As I did in the general discussion, I welcome the courage and determination shown by all those who fought to achieve this today. For years and years, women and men have been fighting bravely for us to get there. In my view, this moment is not annoyance, and we do not address a small article; We are looking at an extremely important article related to Article 1. Article 1 has established a right to which Article 4 ensures full effectiveness. Although our debates will probably be a little more agitated tonight than this afternoon, I can see how much, in essence, they are soothed. After all these years of fighting and struggle, society is ready. It even invites us to continue our momentum, to pass this bill and to improve legislation so that equality is full and effective. Among the issues on which we need to move forward, I would like to refer to what Mrs Vanceunebrock-Mialon has told us about the situation of children already born in LDCs to lesbian couples or to women living alone abroad. We must ensure that the filiation of these children enjoys the same assurance, the same legal basis as the children who will be born tomorrow. I do not think the joint and advance statement is entirely necessary – we will have time to discuss it tonight and tomorrow. The withdrawal of this system would most certainly lead to greater equality or, in any case, to a reduction in discrimination between children born to LDCs with third-party donors of heterosexual and homosexual couples. [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] I have chosen a proposal to which I would like us to move on to another occasion, as it may help to resolve Mr.Brindeau's problems. Rather than referring to the presumption of paternity or maternity, we could introduce the notion of "presumption of kinship". That would solve the problem of the squares that we are faced with. Let's face it, this question of biological likelihood does not really stand up! This is an artifice conceived by the 1994 legislator to allow filiation, which has nothing biological but everything from a legal construction, to fit well with the introduction of the new right of a LDC with third-party donor. This allowed couples who came out of the carnal procreation to benefit from the same legal basis as others. That said, in my view, the idea of biological likelihood does not mean anything, not more for a heterosexual couple passing through the LDC with third-party donors than for a couple of women. We will have to move forward on this subject, which will certainly be possible by coming out of both a biological vision of the family and an extremely general view of society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u17	You're confusing inequality with difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u18	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, SOC and FI groups]] This will ensure greater equality, but also greater security in terms of the legal basis for children's status.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u19	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u20	I would like to mention two points relating to Article 4. First of all, after voting for the LDC for all women, we must now adapt the civil code. Birth can no longer be the only prerequisite for the recognition of filiation. The Special Commission has improved the initial arrangement by agreeing to exclude the early declaration of will, thus eliminating first discrimination, but others persist in the current arrangement, between heterosexual couples and women's couples, on the one hand, and between women, on the other. Indeed, while a woman who is single or married to a man becomes a mother by the natural fact that she gives birth, a woman who is married to another woman will only be a mother by recognition before a notary. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] In the interests of the child as well as of the parents, in order to avoid any form of discrimination, it seems to me right to extend the common law of filiation to all married or single women using the LDC. The aim is to ensure the safety of the child and all parents, whatever they may be – in short, to ensure equal rights. I would then like to raise the issue of the filiation of children born to LDCs abroad. In my view, a posteriori signature of consent would make it possible to secure filiation for couples of women who resorted to the LDC before the final vote on the bill we are considering. The fact that the production of evidence revealing the bond of filiation between the child and his or her second mother is a prerequisite for the recognition of filiation is important. We will be able to be vigilant in setting this evidence by decree. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] A good amendment by our colleague Hervé Saulignac would make it possible to secure the naturally existing bond of filiation with the second mothers who were unable to adopt their child, for example in couples of unmarried women. Again, I believe that this is about the protection of the child and the equal rights of all parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u21	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u22	Article 4 goes back to the heart of the topic as it deals with the consequence of the opening of the LDC to all women on the law of filiation. It is the issue of filiation that poses a problem to those who still oppose the opening of the LDC to lesbian couples. When we hear the arguments against the bill, we see how much the shift over the past century in the order of gender and sexuality disturbs – and it makes sense – those who are committed to the preservation of a family model, a model of male-feminine identity that should be sustained. For our part, we are deeply committed to the principle of equality – I will return to the issue of equality and difference. We believe that the provisions that we are adopting today are the result of decades of social battles that have enabled us to defend, in this House, a considerable step forward in terms of gender and sexuality equality. So first and foremost, I want to rejoice. I am also pleased that at the last moment the Special Committee adopted a new version of Article 4, which is more favourable from the point of view of equality. However, not all our wishes have been met, but we will come back to them later when we consider the amendments. I would also like to point out that the first law we passed on the civil solidarity pact, the PACS, did not guarantee full equality with marriage. Equality was built up as the demands of PACS-related couples, who demanded the same rights as married couples, led to the opening of the marriage to same-sex couples. Today we are continuing this process, and I want to see progress on it. For all those on our benches who have been waging this battle for a very long time, the moment is important. Allow me a personal memory a little moved, that of the wedding celebrated by Noël Mamère in Bègles in 2004, not so long ago! This marriage was not legal and we were a few to want, with this event, to question society. The latter was at the time mostly opposed to the opening of marriage to same-sex couples because it feared its consequences on filiation and the patriarchal system – rightly! For my part, I fully assumed that the opening of marriage to same-sex couples would call into question and upset the traditional family as it existed and was thought for a very long time. I remember having received at my office then a lot of shit, excrement, and letters of insults like never before in my life I had received. When I open the newspaper today and read that a majority of French and French people are in favour of opening the LDC to lesbian couples, I think that time has passed quickly and that we have been able to evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u23	You're in the majority?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u24	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group, on several benches of the UDI-Agir group and among non-attached MPs]] I want to say to the opposition Members who remain committed to their beliefs that they have the right of course to be reactionary and conservative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u25	You have the right to be a libertarian, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u26	[[Same movements]] This is how democratic life goes! [[Same movements]] I have respectful comments on you, and I see that makes you smile.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u27	You don't respect us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mrs Autain has the floor. Let her speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u29	[[New exclamations on the benches of the LR group, on several benches of the UDI-Agir group and among non-attached MPs]] On the contrary, Mr. Brindeau, it's very respectful...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u30	Please proceed, Mrs. Autain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u31	[[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] I will end with the question of equality and difference, which for me is a very fundamental philosophical and political issue. Throughout history, and I speak to you in centuries, it is always in the name of the gender difference that women have been oppressed and the order of gender and sexuality has been justified. Two registers are confused: equality is a political register, while the difference is inherent in the human race. We are different individuals but, as Simone de Beauvoir said, "we are not born a woman, we become a woman".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u32	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u33	What we do not want is to be locked in a supposedly biological destiny that would assign us to a rigid order and prevent us from becoming fully free individuals. Of course, it is a considerable interference with traditional, historical norms, and I understand how upset it is! We have probably not measured how far this other logic, based on equality and the rejection of traditional orders, which have produced so many injustices, so many bans on women, so many discriminations against lesbians and homosexuals... We must therefore move forward in our minds and be consistent in the area of justice and equality, especially with regard to children. What children need is not to have a dad and a mom in good shape, pink for boys and blue for girls,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u34	It's the other way around! But it's normal, you're in the confusion of the genres!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u35	...with perfectly framed roles. What children need is to have parents who give them attention, care, love. If our eyes change, then we will promote the development of those born in different families of hetero-patriarchal families as we have always known them. What these children suffer is our gaze, the difference we make between them and other children, our a priori. All this is changing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] Let us also think of all the families who are already not in the mould. In some of the comments I have heard in our discussions on the LDC, I have seen a judgment. Many single-parent families, who do not respect the classic "paternity and mother" model, are doing very well, and their children are sometimes much happier than in more traditional families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u36	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u37	Article 4 has given rise to many debates in committee and each has evolved its positions. With this text, we create a new right, many of which we are proud of. There would be nothing worse than to associate it with inequality between people and children. We all want this text to create new rights, which give rise to genuine equality. You have also evolved, Madam Keeper of the Seals, since this article originally provided for the creation of a new method of establishing filiation, which you had called "joint declaration of will", exclusively applicable to children born to a LDC within a couple of women. Many criticisms have been made by associations and academics, and you have tabled an amendment, which was adopted in committee, aimed at reintegrating the children born to a couple of women into Title VII of Book I of the Civil Code. This connection to Title VII is obviously more relevant than the creation of a special mechanism, but the new wording does not seem satisfactory to us: on the substance, nothing really changes from the original bill. Indeed, it is always planned to introduce a new derogatory legal regime, applicable only to women's couples. The latter should make a joint and early recognition of the child before the notary responsible for obtaining consent to the AGP. It is this joint recognition that would establish filiation with both mothers, once the child comes into the world. It seems to us to be very much like the joint declaration of will, which leads to double discrimination – I dare not speak this word any more, Madam Keeper of the Seals, since you have taken over me, but it is difficult for me to find another word. I could talk about a "different treatment," but I don't think it's strong enough. In any event, this difference in treatment makes us doubt whether the measure conforms to the Constitution. In the case of a woman giving birth, whether in marriage with a man or a single person, filiation would be established by mentioning her name in the birth certificate of the child. In marriage with a woman, she would establish herself by the effect of early recognition. Yet the relationship between the child and the mother is indifferent to the mother's marital situation. Since the difference in treatment is not justified by a different situation, it is therefore discrimination. In the case of a woman who does not give birth, her filiation would be established exclusively by the effect of early recognition. On the other hand, a man who has consented to an MPA with gamete donation could benefit from the presumption of paternity or make a recognition after the birth of the child. Again, this is a difference in treatment since, in both cases, filiation is based on consent to insemination or embryo transfer. In order to remedy these discriminations while securing the filiation of children born within a couple of women and while preserving the right currently applicable to couples composed of a man and a woman, it is sufficient to extend to women's couples the legal regime currently applicable in couples composed of a man and a woman. Under article 311-20 of the Civil Code, this legal regime already bases the filiation of children born to an MPA on the consent expressed by their parents before the notary. The extension of Article 311-20 to the benefit of women's couples would therefore not imply any theoretical upheaval. It would simply be a matter of providing that the same responsibility with regard to the coming into the world of the child shall be governed by the same method of establishing filiation, subject to the same legal regime. Since article 311-20 of the Civil Code already bases the filiation of children born through a gift on the consent of their parents and since the new law would allow two women to consent to an MPA, it would be quite consistent to extend to women's couples the same legal regime currently applicable to couples composed of a man and a woman. Such filiation would thus be established with respect to the woman who gives birth by mentioning her name in the birth certificate of the child. She would establish herself against the other woman who has consented to the AMP by recognition made before or after birth, without the need to provide proof of consent to the assistance to the registrar. We see only advantages in this proposal. The text changes would be very minimal. This would not change the situation of couples made up of a man and a woman, who, of course, could still benefit, when married, from the presumption of paternity. This would not introduce any hierarchy between parents, but would not erase the importance of pregnancy and childbirth. This would make it possible to secure the filiation of children born within a couple of women by basing this filiation on the consent to the realization of the assistance, as is already the case in couples composed of a man and a woman. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches as well as on several benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] This demonstration, which many agree with here, I think – at least I hope – has been presented to us on numerous occasions at the hearings of the Special Committee. To build it, we took up a large number of elements presented by the lawyer Victor Deschamps, which allowed us to understand what we thought intuitively: an opening of rights leads to equal treatment for all. This idea has become obvious. I hope that our demonstration will have convinced everyone, and that we will create a new right without creating discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u38	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u39	I would like to welcome the method by which this new version of the text was presented, which has been greatly modified by the Special Committee. All those who participated in its proceedings and hearings heard criticism of the initial version of article 4 which had just been removed from the Council of State. I would like to welcome the work of the rapporteur, Mrs Coralie Dubost, and of the keeper of the seals, Mrs Nicole Belloubet, who has led to the proposal of a new wording to the committee. It is particularly important, in our parliamentary democracy, to be able to work in this way and to submit to our House a text drawn up by iterations in committee. Once it is not customary, ladies and gentlemen, our discussion escapes the usual partisan divisions. There are people on each bench of this assembly who support the current wording of section 4 and others who are against it. Similarly, some of us strongly oppose the opening of the LDC to all women, while others fully support it. With regard to the deletion amendments tabled by some of our colleagues, notably Mrs Annie Genevard, Mr Xavier Breton and Mr Patrick Hetzel, I see a strong opposition to the opening of the LDC to all women. However, ladies and gentlemen, I also want to welcome the spirit of responsibility that you have shown: some of your amendments tend to amend Article 4 – deeply, certainly – and, from your point of view, to enrich it. This is very important because, on this subject as on all those affected by the bioethics law, no one can claim to have absolute truth. In this context, I would like to respond to previous speakers with regard to the concept of equality. It is a significant issue that the introduction of equality between the two members of a couple, in this case a lesbian couple, with regard to the establishment of filiation. It is important that, as proposed in article 4, the two women of the couple be recognized in a strictly identical manner in this respect and exercise without distinction parental authority over the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u40	What about the men's couples?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u41	Finally, some criticise the introduction of a distinction, from the point of view of the establishment of filiation, between two women who gave birth, depending on whether they belong to a couple of women or to a heterosexual couple. For my part, I believe that this version of the text is quite balanced: on the one hand, it provides maximum security for women members of the couple and children; On the other hand, it enshrines in our civil code the recognition of the parental project without mechanically associating it with a donor who has nothing to do with the function of father. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Rich debates await us. We will see if it is possible to enrich the text; In any case, we can be particularly proud of what has led us here and of the good conduct of our exchanges so far – that they will, I hope, retain in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u42	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u43	Many of us here have celebrated marriages, and then have spoken these words that we know by heart: "The spouses owe each other respect, fidelity, help, assistance. Together, they provide the moral and material direction of the family. They provide for the education of children and prepare their future. These sentences are spoken in front of young couples, called to have children, as in front of older people, of whom it is obvious that they will not have them together, and from now on in front of heterosexual and homosexual couples. So, when you marry two people, when these two people commit themselves – and it is the meaning and the interest of marriage to be a commitment – you talk about the family and the children. It does not seem absurd to me, therefore, to recognize the same filiation of heterosexual and homosexual couples when they are married, since marriage is considered from the outset from this perspective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u44	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u45	In reply to the speakers, I will begin by recalling, as many or all of them have done, that Article 4 is an extension of the provisions adopted in Article 1, i.e. the opening of the LDC – with third-party donors, I will not always say so – to women's couples. This is an inextricable consequence, since there is obviously no question of opening this right without establishing the filiation of the children who will be born in this context. However, as I said in my opening remarks, this is not a law on filiation. The method of establishing filiation is the consequence of the new right that we open.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u46	It's all ambiguous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u47	It's DIY!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u48	No, it's not DIY at all, Mr. Bazin: it's a new right that we open to women;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u49	The right to the child!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u50	... personally, I don't call it DIY. Then, as many of you have pointed out, this is indeed progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u51	No! Any novelty is not progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u52	That is what we must remember: it is a positive point. Of course, we must see all the debates that we are going to have on the text as contributing to the writing of a new right that constitutes progress. I would also like to return to three major points. First, as we have made clear, this novelty has no consequences for the establishment of already defined filiations for heterosexual couples according to the current law. The existing law remains stable as it is written. Secondly, we wish above all to guarantee the legal certainty of the women and children who will be born of the couples of the women in question. This is a very important point on which I will have the opportunity to return. Finally, and this is essential, we also want to ensure the equality of all children. Finally, I would like to say a word about the use of a term that I have heard here or there in the mouth of the Members who have spoken, and which you have noted, Mrs Battistel, because I myself have already answered on this subject: that of "discrimination". I still want to say here that what we have written, with the very valuable help of the rapporteur, since the text you have before you is the result of a compromise,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u53	Very bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u54	...has no discrimination. What is discrimination, in fact, if not less rights, or more constraints? But there is no less right for anyone – neither for children, nor for women – nor any further coercion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u55	Without the text, it was the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u56	In order for filiation to be established following an MPA, couples, whatever they may be, must all go to the notary to consent to the MPA; This formality is the same for everyone. And, at the time the child is born, all couples must present a paper to the registrar, in addition to the birth certificate: the family booklet for married couples, the declaration of recognition for unmarried heterosexual couples, or the joint recognition for women's couples, as we propose here. Thus, all these couples are subject to the same legal constraints and enjoy the same rights. That is what it is important to stress. We have therefore not established any discrimination. I do not want to be longer at this point because I will have the opportunity to revisit these provisions, but I believe that the word "discrimination" is really not appropriate. It is really excessive – you said it yourself, Mrs Battistel, although others, whose reasoning you share, used it – and absolutely does not correspond to what we wanted to do. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like, at the outset, to retain the idea that this is first of all a step forward, and a great step forward for women's couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u57	We come to the amendments, starting with the deletion amendments. I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 4, 9, 150, 574, 1208 and 1482. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u58	With Article 4, we turn to the core of the subject: it is now a matter of translating into law the major general declarations of political scope, defining the method of establishing filiation. And it's at this point that things get complicated. When we begin our consideration of Article 4, we still do not know how it will be drafted. However, the question has arisen for months. During the fact-finding mission I conducted on the subject with our colleague Jean-Louis Touraine, we heard the Council of State say that there was no perfect scenario, that each had its own advantages and disadvantages. The Government has made a choice; I therefore thought that he had thought well and that he was firmly camping on his position, conscious of pros and cons, determined to assume what he had chosen – for that is also politics. In the bill he introduced to us, it was the advance declaration of will that was retained. Of which act. But no, it's not enough: associations go up to the niche, colleagues relay concerns and discontents, and hop! We change everything, without asking for any study from the Council of State on a subject – the law of filiation – as essential in our law and for the stability of society. The change is presented and discussed in a special committee. All of this is a bit of a brink, a little bit of a scabreous, but finally, a text is voted on. However, in order to defend amendments – it is in the interests of not being limited by the time of legislation planned as we are now – and to confront the provisions laid down, we end up hearing Mrs. keeper of the seals declare that, for some women, childbirth will no longer be filiation – that is exactly what you said in the special committee, Mrs. keeper of the seals. And here, we realize that there is a problem: because we want to guarantee equality within the women's couple, we eliminate equality between women in society. And here we go again for a ride! This is how we still don't know tonight how filiation will be established. Of course, there are small attempts: one invokes such an amendment on which we are going to work... Do you realize? On such an essential subject? I repeat, these are no longer political slogans, general statements about progress – progress on what, by the way? It is a matter of law, and it is to make the law that we are here. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] Those are the reasons why we are calling for the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u59	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u60	Our colleague has just recalled that the new wording of Article 4 is the result of an amendment by the Government adopted in a special committee. At the very least, this shows that the Government may not have taken the measure of all the upheavals that its desire to open access to the LDC to women alone or in marriage with another woman is introduced into the law of filiation. The inclusion of the new provisions in Title VII of the Civil Code and your declarations, Madam Keeper of the Seals, tend to trivialize this new mode of filiation, which is rather unfortunate. Indeed, it rests mainly on the will, relegating the carnal bond to the second plane. In particular, while members of the Government usually have only the word of parity in their mouths, how do you justify the reduction of man to his gametes, as if they were the only thing that mattered? For it is good, in reality, what you mean.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u62	In conclusion, this new proposal shows the scramble towards which we are heading and whose consequences on fundamental human relations will be quite harmful. The real stake of all this is not the opening of the LDC to certain categories of the population, but the upheaval, unprecedented in the history of humanity, of the mode of filiation. Moreover, Mr Mélenchon, with whom we are also in deep disagreement, insisted on the fact that you are developing a new filiation; In a very coherent way, his group wants it and demands it, but in just as consistent a way, we do not want it. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] No, Mrs. Seal Guard, what you're doing is not a great step forward. We miss out on the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u64	[[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] The only thing that interests you is the higher desire of adults. And you know that all this will happen, at some point, to the detriment of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u65	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 150.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u66	I also propose the deletion of Article 4. Just as article 1 declared the father to be ejected, article 4 decrees the removal of the specific nature of the mother who gives birth. Furthermore, I would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that between the first version – the early declaration of will – and the version we are looking at tonight, the mention of the woman giving birth has disappeared.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u67	Yes! That's the way it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u68	All this is the result of what we heard during the hearings, namely the denial of biology. I still have in mind Mrs Théry's remarks that biological filiation is a myth, others claiming that filiation is a construction, a convention, that it is based on a will, a responsibility and a parenting project; And that is why our group vehemently opposed this notion of parental project, which replaces biological filiation. In fact, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you are driven by the obsession with the risk of discrimination that you might be accused of. I heard you say that there was no discrimination, since it would lead to different treatment of the same situations, but that is the word that the supporters of this bill have repeatedly repeated, obsessed with the idea that any distinction between a woman who gives birth and a woman who does not give birth would be discrimination. You have to take a political choice that the equality imperative does not impose. I would add, like my colleague Xavier Breton, that this is not a good thing. Indeed, after presenting us with a first version of this text at the hearings, you will submit a second one to us tonight. It is clear that the issue of filiation is complicated, including for you, and that we are now immersed in uncertainty, in blurryness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u69	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] One thing is certain: under no circumstances can we accept the version you are proposing to us tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u71	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 574.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u72	This deletion amendment will allow me to go back to what Mrs Custody has said and to clarify the terms of this debate. We cannot limit ourselves to confining one to the role of reactionaries and the other to the role of progressives: this is really not the question. You said, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that discrimination involved either withdrawal of rights – I grant you that there are no such provisions – or an additional constraint imposed on either spouse. I recall the conditions for establishing filiation for heterosexual couples who have used AMP with third-party donors. For the mother, you will agree that filiation is not established by the declaration of acceptance of the use of third-party donors before notary, even if this document is necessary for civil status, but by the birth certificate, as is the case for other couples, whether married or not, who have not used the AMP. In the case of the father, filiation is established, for married couples, by the presumption of paternity linked to biological likelihood, and for married couples, by recognition. In the case of a single woman, the text also provides for the obligation to accept the use of the AMP before a notary, in the same way as a couple of women or a heterosexual couple, which seems absolutely logical, but again, it is the birth certificate that will make it the mother of the child for the civil status. For a couple of women, on the other hand, you oblige the mother who gives birth to make a joint declaration of recognition, which breaks the principle that it is the birth certificate that establishes filiation. You justify this measure by the need to respect a form of equality between the two mothers. However, whether we look at the issue from a legal point of view or from a legal point of view, it will only be a fake equality: one will have given birth, the other will not. You therefore create discrimination against a woman who has given birth since you impose on her, in order for her own filiation to be established, an act of prior recognition which is not necessary for either a single woman or the mother in the context of a heterosexual couple, having had recourse to the AGP or not. You can see that there is a hiatus, present from the first version of the text, which provided for an early declaration of will. You cannot deny a principle of reality of the law of filiation: the latter comes from a male donor and a woman who will carry the child and give birth, whatever the type of relationship between these two people. Therefore, the only legal provision which could be agreed upon for a couple of women is the application of the ordinary law, which consists of de facto recognition of the woman giving birth as the mother, under the certificate of delivery. This would require the second mother to submit to the adoption procedure, which would, in essence, be just as discriminating. I see nothing else that could be held from a legal point of view. But as the text stands, I really expect explanations from you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, to know how you intend to get out of this legal impasse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u73	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1208.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u74	Here we are gathered for a night of bioethics, both in its own sense and in its figurative sense – it is above all a night of filiation with French. Article 4 provides for an in-depth reform of filiation, since it envisages amending the Civil Code by deleting Articles 310 and 358 and repealing Section 3 of Chapter I of Title VII. It is not annoyance: we touch on the general provisions of filiation. What are the impacts? We do not have any advice from the Council of State on this drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u75	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u76	It's dangerous DIY, ma'am, seal guard. Drafted in haste, article 4 detachs, as the Council of State feared, the filiation of the child's birth. You no longer recognize automatic filiation for the woman who gives birth; You consider a different parentage depending on whether the woman is alone or in a homosexual couple. The cohabitation, within a new chapter V, of several modes of filiation in the event of recourse to a third-party donor, depending on whether the woman declares herself alone, as a couple with a woman or as a couple with a man, may give rise to more conflicts of filiation and even of patrimoniality. Moreover, does this new chapter not facilitate the legalization of the GPA the day after tomorrow, perhaps through a preliminary question of constitutionality? So far, the consistency of the law of filiation has been respected because the spirit of the current model of the MPA is based on an imitation of natural procreation. However, as the Council of State recognizes, these new provisions institutionalize an implausible filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u77	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u78	Shouldn't we open the door to the drifts of filiation? According to the Council of State itself, admitting the dual maternal filiation ab initio has led states to foresee the possibility of three or four parents, as in the California Family Code and the family law act of British Columbia. Is that what we want, ladies and gentlemen? Is there not de facto inequality between children, some of whom are voluntarily deprived of a father? Don't they, too, have a father? By opening the LDC to women alone, is it not depriving other children of a dual filiation? Is there any harm to these children? [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] These abuses are contrary to the interests of the child, as they will destabilize and weaken the filiation intended to protect him. To avoid this, I propose to delete Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u79	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1482.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u80	I will be very brief because there is no longer much time left for non-attached Members. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you said that section 4 was not discriminatory because it did not remove anyone's rights. Yes, I do! In a couple of women, you create discrimination against a woman who gives birth because she no longer becomes a mother simply because of the birth. This is the first discrimination. In addition, you expect that a child's filiation may be established against two women or a single woman. In doing so, you create a method of establishing filiation exclusively based on the will of the adult and depriving the child of all paternal filiation. In other words, you take away his right to have a father. This is the second discrimination. [[Applause on some of the banks of the LR Group. – Mrs AgnesThillapplauditedalso]] I don't have time to expand further, but there is clearly discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u81	Mrs Coralie Dubost, rapporteur of the special committee responsible for examining the bioethics bill, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u82	Beyond these deletion amendments, let me also reply to the speakers on the article. This will lay the foundations for the continuation of our discussions. I hear the emotion of the wording of article 4, which draws on the consequences of article 1, which opens the LDC to women's couples by incorporating the rules of homoparental filiation into the civil code. I understand the emotion expressed on various benches because it is a step we are taking, but we are doing it smoothly, that is, without reforming the whole of Title VII of the Civil Code – that is to say, we are criticized by some, while others accuse us of being too bold in creating a chapter V dedicated to the LDC in the said Title VII... Finally, we find ourselves in a position of balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u83	No, it's not a balance position!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u84	Tonight and tomorrow, we will discuss at length all the issues involved in this filiation. I hear a lot about equality, either from the point of view of the woman giving birth to the couple of women, or between women's couples and heterosexual couples. Even if we do not look at a great equality law, we had to look at the issue from this point of view. As you have said on several occasions and in different ways, either we ensured equality between all couples, then creating a distinction between the two mothers when we will recognize them for the first time in the civil code, or we would ensure equality between mothers, thus recognizing a difference in the situation between male-female and female-female couples. That is the second option we have chosen. Would it have been better to choose the first one and follow the adage "mater semper certa est", according to which "the mother who gives birth is always certain"? I'm not sure, but we can discuss it. I allowed myself to make a little incursion into the history of the law of filiation, because I like to know what I'm talking about. Initially, when this adage was created by the Romans – it was not yet a matter of law, but of customs – the mother's filiation was only real, not legitimate. The fact that the children were attached to her because she had given birth and she was certain that she did not give them any rights, did not result in any of the effects of filiation, whether in terms of legal capacity, heritage, citizenship or inheritance. Thus, what I intend to defend as absolutely indispensable to the formation of a legal filiation with the mother was not at the time. The same phrases, the same words, you see, can take on very different meanings depending on the times in which one is located and the rights attached to it. I agree with the custody of the seals that all children will benefit from the same effects in their filiation, regardless of how the latter is established. This was an absolutely indispensable prerequisite – everyone in this House will agree, I believe, to recognize it – and we must therefore welcome it. We will be able to discuss equality issues at greater length. I do not think that we are carrying out a major reform of the law of filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u85	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u86	My personal inclination would lead me to great equality in filiation – I do not hide it, it must have appeared during the hearings. In the twenty-first century, I believe that much would probably be possible in that regard. However, we are looking at a law of bioethics, which requires us to respect very tight balances and make legislative lace. All of this to tell you that I am, of course, expressing an unfavourable opinion on the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u87	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u88	[[Smile]] It is clear that we will discuss at length the formulas that you will propose for the writing of Article 4. I believe that we have taken a major step forward in committee in introducing the situation of these women and families into Title VII of the Civil Code. They also have legal certainty, because they can be mothers "at the same time" – you know how dear the expression is to our majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u89	In terms of bioethics, we cannot do "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u90	It was a pun intended to make you react, and it works... Be careful for the rest of the debates, you are too predictable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u91	You too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u92	Not so much, be careful: you are not at the end of your surprises! Unfavorable opinion, therefore, unless you wish to withdraw these amendments, which would be a very nice surprise on your part and would make you perfectly unpredictable...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u93	With the "at the same time", there are sometimes nasty shifts. Tomorrow they'll say we're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u95	I also, of course, express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments – each one is in its own logic. My unfavorable opinion is based first – since you asked me about this, Mr Breton, and your colleagues – on what is the basis of this method of establishing filiation. I say this clearly: we are not in the same situation as we had before. So far, filiation has been based on sexual otherness. But we are not in this situation: we are dealing with an established filiation for two women carrying out a parental project – you voted in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u96	President Ferrand voted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u97	Parliament adopted Rule 1. So we are in a new situation and have to adapt the civil code to it, that is very clear. The method of establishing the proposed filiation responds to this new situation. Mr. Hetzel, you are telling us that you are afraid that we will be harming the best interests of the child. However, in our proposal we have remained faithful to the main principles set out by the Council of State in its opinion. He wrote: "If, in relation to filiation, the principle of equality requires that all children have the same rights,... in other words, that all modes of filiation produce the same effects, that same principle does not require that all children be given the same method of establishing filiation". This is indeed a new way of establishing filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u98	You question the fundamental principles of the law of filiation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u99	Then the Council of State explains that the best interest of the child "is to have legal certainty about his or her condition and to grow up in a stable family environment". In no way do we run into the clear principles set out by the Council of State by the method of establishing filiation that we propose. I would also like – and this will be the last point – to address you, Mrs Genevard and Mr Brindeau. You are referring to the issue of childbirth – I will not repeat your words, which I have not fully noted – and we accuse ourselves of not mentioning them in the text before you. However, I have made it clear to you: for the woman who gives birth, the establishment of filiation can only, of course, result from the birth, which obviously makes her the mother! There are no other possible solutions, it's common sense! It's not written that way, but it's thought of. However, because there is a parenting project and because we are dealing with a parenting project involving two women, it is the parenting project that forms the basis for equality between these two women who become mothers at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u100	Why equality? It doesn't exist between man and woman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u101	How could the other woman be a mother on an equal footing without the parenting project? If we seek joint recognition, it is of course because we want to establish equality between these two women who will both become mothers at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u102	By denying filiation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u103	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is an essential part of this bill for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u104	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u105	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I am struck by your tendency – yours and that of many of our colleagues – to deny, in a way, the importance of what is happening in this debate. When you say that you do not lead a reform of filiation, that you do not push the filiation, or that you do not question the founding principles of filiation, others on these benches believe on the contrary that this text carries a considerable change of civilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u106	I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u107	Irène Théry believes that this law is the most important one in the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u108	The most serious, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u109	There is, therefore, at the same time, the recognition of the extraordinary and founding character of this text, and the desire to minimize its effects. I see a form of distortion...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u110	Hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u111	...in relation to reality as we perceive it. For our part, we consider the removal of the male branch of filiation and the non-specificity of the woman giving birth to be major elements of modification of the law of filiation. Have at least the courage and honesty to recognize it! While we disagree on these changes, we can agree that they are absolutely major. You minimize the fact that the woman giving birth has disappeared from this article of the text, claiming that the establishment of her filiation goes without saying. We believe, on the contrary, that this is better when we say it. It is not just a matter of common sense: it is also a question of recognizing the specificity of the woman giving birth. I will give you, if you may, a few examples. She is the only one who decides on an antenatal diagnosis, an abortion or an X-delivery. I will not even mention the link that is absolutely recognized and eminently constructed today for the child who settles between the mother and the foetus she is wearing: there is an intrauterine life, which weaves specific links between the foetus and the woman who is about to give birth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u112	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u113	[[Applause on several benches in the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] Finally, I would add, for all the women in this assembly who gave birth, that between giving birth and not giving birth, there is a certain difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u114	There are women who are mothers and have not given birth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u115	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u116	I would like to stress the revolution that we are witnessing. I repeat the terms used by the keeper of seals during his hearing before the committee: "it is even a form of revolution in the law of filiation". We are building, you say, a legal filiation of all parts. We will indeed build from scratch – collectively, but without our consent, you will have understood – a legal revolution by which you completely deny the bonds of blood. You prevent the children who will be born from enrolling in a line – the term may seem pompous, but that's what it is – in a family gesture that recognizes filiation and introduces references, whatever they may be, by the way. Therefore, for legal and political reasons, you voluntarily deprive children of what is most essential to their training and identity. In reality, through this legal revolution, you manage to deny the reality of things – childbirth, filiation, the bonds of blood – and to create an off-ground genealogy. It's very serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u117	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u118	[[Applause on a few benches in the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] That's your wish. By this gesture, you will deny the biological ties that bind a child to the whole family, which is gravissimal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u119	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u120	[[Laugh. – Exclaims on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] All those who have accused us of being advocates of a "hetero-patriarco-reactionary" society will at least be reassured to see how much we are able to recognize the primacy of the maternal relationship and its leading role in parenting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u121	Both go hand in hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u122	Madam seal keeper, it is very unlikely, to the truth, that we will agree on this article, which crystallizes everything we reject in this text. What we're just trying to explain to you is that a child is not building on what you called "legal certainty" about the identity of his or her parents, which we artificially decide. In the construction of a child, it is more important than the legal dimension. We cannot hide them in this House, where we cannot simply vote the law on the basis of legislative and legal considerations. In building his identity, the child will seek to know who his father is. Having completely cut it off could even, in the future, push him to look for who he is. Since these cases will no longer be in our hands but in the hands of the judges, in particular those of the ECHR – the European Court of Human Rights –, what situations will we face? To three-parent families. Maybe to endless successional conflicts. We open a Pandora's box there, and we create more problems than solutions. [[Applause on several benches in the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] You will understand, therefore, that if we strongly oppose this matter, it is not because we are attached to a model of society that no longer needs to be, according to those who would like to erase all the references, but because the child has rights, which must prevail over the wishes of the parents' children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u123	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u124	On pages 81 and 82 of the report, which I invite you to read again, Jean-Louis Touraine has categorical and explicit words on the problems posed by the solution proposed by article 4 as drafted by the Government. Furthermore, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you obviously have a somewhat selective reading of the opinion of the Council of State. In this regard, I would like to draw the attention of our Assembly to a part of the report where we learn that the Council of State rejected the Government's option in its study adopted at the General Assembly on 28 June 2018, stating that "this solution appears in contradiction with the philosophy of the traditional methods of establishing filiation, which is based on likelihood, the meaning of presumption and recognition being to reflect a biological truth. The Council of State draws attention to the fact that it would lead to a challenge to the founding principles of the law of filiation, laid down in Title VII of Book I of the Civil Code, which governs all situations. » As you can see, the Council of State is very clear about the proposal which has now become, as a result of a governmental amendment submitted in committee, the drafting of Article 4 which we are now debating. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] In fact, you hesitated between two bad choices. But hesitating between two bad choices will never make a good balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u125	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u126	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you're talking about women, but not children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u127	Yes, I did!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u128	It is the children who must be of concern to us. A stable, protective parentage for the child: that is what we must preserve. You plan a double maternal filiation by the will of adults. This paradigm shift may significantly alter the law of filiation and significantly affect the status of the child. The prohibition, confirmed in the draft law, of any legal action for paternity against the genitor may be justified when the children have a paternal parentage, but it becomes difficult to sustain when they have been deprived of it. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] You want to base children's parentage on the will of adults, but the parenting project makes it more fragile! Many questions arise, which have far-reaching consequences. How can we deal, for example, with the case of a change of mind? In the United States, there is a growing rehousing market, with the sale of children from LDCs who no longer give satisfaction to their parents! Do we want that, ladies and gentlemen? There is the risk of a versatile will. How will you deal with the case of a parent who will invoke a defect of consent and declare that at the time of recognition he was forced or was unaware of the consequences of his decision? As his consent has been vitiated, he will then be able to destroy the bond of filiation, in accordance with what is done when there is a conflict of rights, you know that very well. [[Applause on a few benches in the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] For all these reasons, I invite you to uphold the precautionary principle and to delete Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u129	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u130	Madam Keeper of the Seals, in responding to our inquiries, you have confirmed that, in the case of a couple of women who resort to the AMP – medical assistance in procreation – it is indeed the birthing that makes mother. At the same time, however, you tell us that we also have mutual consent from both women to establish and, in a way, secure the parenting project. That is, it seems to me, roughly the spirit of what I have understood from your remarks. There are two different fields, justifying that these two women should be asked to establish their parenting project by mutual consent. You keep saying that the fields of filiation law are being changed, that the notion of biological resemblance is being lost and profited, and that in reality it is the parenting project that must take precedence in these cases. Why, then, not require a single mother to establish a parenting project in writing? Why is it that a heterosexual couple, whether or not they use the AMP, is not required to formulate mutually valid consent and guarantee the parenting project, since it is now the concept that prevails? Indeed, you must have a minimum of consistency in what you want to establish. If you go through the loss and profit of biological likelihood, you have to do it completely: anyone, whether as a heterosexual couple, as a homosexual couple or alone, has to establish a parenting project that will determine tomorrow's relationship of filiation with their children. That's for the first thing. On the other hand, our colleagues tell you that this conceptual and legal upheaval has, by definition, implications for inheritance law and for what will happen when a couple of women separate, as may happen in other cases, and either will challenge the child's right of custody or there will be a conflict over support – these are low-level things, but have implications for the child's situation with respect to both parents. Having blown up the notion of biological likelihood, you will have to treat both women on an equal footing, because of this notion of parenting project. I wish the judges the best of luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u131	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u132	We have heard, Madam Keeper of the Seals, your wish to establish full equality within the women's couple, but we will have to explain why. Indeed, you say you are prepared to accept a difference in treatment between women in society, depending on their status – so women could get a different answer depending on who lives in a male-female couple or in a female couple – but that within a female couple, there is a need for equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u133	As far as questions of filiation are concerned!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u134	In fact, in a male-female couple, there is no equality, but a difference, which is also suitable for the 97% of married, pampered or cohabiting couples, according to the old hetero-patriarchal model...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u135	And "reactionary," as they say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u136	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] So 97% of our fellow citizens would be reactionary? This form continues to exist: the woman gives birth and becomes a mother; the father assumes the presumption of paternity or recognition. This difference exists and does not pose any problems. Why should she create one in women's couples? Why do you want equality? Would it be to say – this is probably the position of those who conceive filiation exclusively as a social construction – that we also want to impose on male-female couples this obsession with equality and ensure that, perhaps not today, but tomorrow, the establishment of the mode of filiation is done in the same way for male-female couples and women's couples? We will then say that there must be, in a man-woman couple, a joint recognition: everyone will be on the same foot. That's your goal. Some want, in fact, to eliminate the body pillar, on the ground that the body would refer to essentialism, determinism, etc. For us, it is not about eliminating the whole body pillar. The educational and emotional dimensions exist, of course, as well as the parental project, but the latter does not exhaust the whole meaning of filiation, because it also responds to a likelihood, which is based on sexual otherness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u137	Not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u138	Therefore, that you are in the logic of equality within the couple, it leads you to these positions. So tell us why you have the obsession with equality in the women's couple, when it doesn't exist in the men's-women's couple, and it's not a problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u139	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u140	First of all, I would like to reply to Mrs Genevard so that we can try to agree on what is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u141	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u142	Is this reform of the LDC – medically assisted procreation – basically a revolution, or, as the government majority claims, not such a big revolution? It is not just a matter of agreeing. This bill seems to be part of a revolutionary process, but it began with the opening of marriage to same-sex couples and the LDC, and already with the right to divorce and the recognition of adoption. It is also the reality of couples and contemporary ways of making families. You mentioned 97% of families in line with the traditional hetero-patriarchal model, but frankly, we are no longer in this society at all, if only because divorce has gone through it and there are many recomposed and single-parent families. The family model is no longer that of yesterday, in part because women work and the roles, once distributed according to gender, are totally upset. So yesterday's family is gone. There is "already there" in the revolution and this is a law that will increase freedom and opportunities, and bring about equality. Obviously, there is equality in your mind, and we have indeed a disagreement on the biological dimension, as you have had the honesty to remind us, by evoking the biological basis, which would be superior to everything else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u143	It's one of the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u144	No, since you're sacralizing him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u145	There are other factors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u146	But this one is essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u147	Mr Breton, you have just spoken. Mrs Autain has the floor, and if you wish to take it up earlier, you will obviously have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u148	Mr Breton, I have listened carefully to you, I have heard your comments, and I therefore wonder what part you are making in your reasoning of parenting, which is not linked to a biological link between women or men and children. Women give birth, which gives them this right of filiation, but some of them do not give birth and are mothers because they have adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u149	Adoption is separate: it gives parents to the child!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u150	Is a separate status given to the latter in the law of filiation? No! We agree on this point. So you can be a mother or a father without a biological relationship. Why could what is true for adoption not be just as true, just as fair and just as effective in the perspective of an educational dream in which one thinks first of the good of the child and of freedom and equality for the parents, in the case of a couple of two women? I don't understand that reasoning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u151	A man is a man, and a woman is a woman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u152	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As for the biological dimension, I know well, for having given birth too, that there is a difference between having borne a child and not having borne it, as between the fact that this child came out of your belly by childbirth or by caesarean section. However, we must be very careful, because it was in the name of the nine-month argument in the womb that women were locked up at home. Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u153	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u154	Today's reacs aren't like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the groups FI, LaREM, MODEM and GDR as well as on some benches of the group IUD-Agir]] It was said that, since they had a biological connection and were bearing children, they were best able to take care of the little babies and the house! Today, however, we discover – and this is progress for both women and men – that men have the right not only to share the sometimes difficult tasks of child care, but also the joys of caring for babies and seeing them grow up, in order to find their place alongside the child. Too often, too long, fathers have been prevented from having access to this link, from the birth of the child, in the name of this biological relationship, which would be the first relationship, between the mother and the child. It is therefore happy that, in the name of equality, fathers can now have their place. In the motherhood where I gave birth, there was a "fathers' corridor", which was brand new: it is the idea that the father also has the right to be there immediately and that he has all his place with the newly born child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u156	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u157	No, it's not that obvious! I am talking about centuries, if not millennia, of patriarchal history during which, in the name of this biological bond, society was organized by locking women at home. [[Applause on the benches of the groups FI, LaREM, MODEM and GDR as well as on some benches of the group IUD-Agir]] Yes, we are living a revolution. It is a revolution of progress, a revolution of equality, a revolution of freedom, to which children have everything to gain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u158	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u159	I have listened very carefully from the beginning to this debate, which I find very interesting. I think there is something a little unfinished in clause 4, one of the central clauses of the bill. The solution put forward in committee by Mrs La Garde des Seales and Mrs La rapporteur has the merit of being truly modern and promising, and I believe very much in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u160	Modernity...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u161	Having the political courage to disconnect the filiation of biological likelihood and the act of parenting a child in a carnal way is a truly founding decision. We could not wait for another reaction on my part, since I was the one who defended the amendment on the parental project. Having said that, I have a sense of incompleteness: the text would be of total modernity if the device applied to all couples using a third-party donor. Article 311-20 of Title VII of the Civil Code, concerning heterosexual couples using a third-party donor, has already left the biological likelihood of their relationship with their children for a long time. We created some kind of fiction, but today we know that the father is not necessarily the breeder. Opening the mechanism of early recognition to all couples would make the bill the great text of the future on a real reform of filiation that the rapporteur called for earlier. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] I have also heard, since the beginning of the debate – the keeper of the seals has sufficiently recalled it – that there is a kind of red line, corresponding to one of the recommendations of the Council of State: do not remove any rights to heterosexual couples. I do not fully share this point of view but hear it. If we do not now go to the end of this revolution, by offering all couples, heterosexual as well as homosexual, access to the device of early recognition, let us pass this not later. Let us reserve it for a great text that would completely revisit our methods of establishing filiation...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u162	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u163	The masks are falling!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u164	It's a little The Best of the Worlds you're offering us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u165	... and let us concentrate on a device that should bring our approval to everyone, as I hear from Mrs Autain and Mrs Genevard. One path seems interesting to explore: the opening of the common law to all couples, including those formed by two women. The existing recognition system for heterosexual couples is satisfactory. It does not seem to me that he grants less rights to the father who recognizes the child than to the mother who gave birth. It preserves childbirth as a founding act – I understand that our friends in the Republican group do not want to come back to this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u166	I hope this opinion is not just ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u167	We could collectively find a solution that would allow women's couples to obtain a double filiation device that would be equal for both mothers, one establishing their filiation through childbirth and the other through recognition, as is possible for unmarried heterosexual couples using a third-party donor. It would be a real point of balance that would not take away anything from anyone...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u168	Yes, to the children!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u169	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... which would make it possible to resolve as many situations as possible, in particular those of couples formed by a transgender woman and a cisgender woman, which I have often mentioned in this debate. All couples could thus benefit from this simple system of common law, which would not fundamentally upset our right and leave the door open to deeper work on the system of establishment of filiation, while sanctifying, you will agree, childbirth as a founding act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u170	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u171	The discussion focused largely on the issue of the presumption of maternity. In recent decades, the presumption of paternity has never disturbed anyone. I understand that you are annoyed by the fact that we often talk about your patriarchal side, but I do not see why, since we have no problem with the presumption of paternity, we would have one with the presumption of maternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u172	There is no presumption of maternity! It doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u173	The comments about mothers who gave birth and those who did not give birth were clumsy. It would be too violent for women who have adopted to consider that, since they have not given birth, they are not mothers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u174	We never said otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u175	As I already said when we were discussing Article 1, we must be careful not to offend or hurt anyone. Whether a mother gives birth or adopts, she remains a mother because she gives all her love. On the other hand, with regard to the place of parents and the child, I often hear that children will be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u176	We are here not as parents but as legislators!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u177	However, in 2019, children became accustomed to new families, are no longer at all shocked by anything! For example, when your kid's invited to a birthday snack, you'll think mechanically, as a parent, that you have to call the mom, and your child, hilare, will tell you that you'll find it hard to reach her, because he has two dads! That we want to think about the kids, either. But let us not forget that when we talk to children whose friends grow up in single-parent families, they are not at all shocked. All a child wants is to be surrounded by people who love him and make him grow up and enter into active life with the love they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u178	They have the right to know who their father is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u179	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] We must therefore pay attention to the words used in this House, so as not to hurt or offend people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u180	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u181	Yes, we are really facing a legal revolution. I want to reply to Mrs Autain that of course we do not make filiation the alpha and the omega of the biological bond. There are many other elements, some of which may be considered innate, others which fall within the scope of the acquis: the family, geographical, socio-cultural environment, or what may surround the secret of birth, in short, a very broad set. It is not a question of magnifying the biological link here, but of highlighting the revolution that is taking place before our eyes. Through this text, you do not consider this to be one element among others, but you completely deny the biological link, yet so important. You compare what you are proposing with adoption. Indeed, adoptive parents are not necessarily biological parents. But in the case of adoption, parents are given to a child. The process is completely reversed: it is very different from the situation of a family that welcomes a child in the biological and legal sense; The environment is not the same at all. With regard to the certainty surrounding the mother, I stress that, even if Roman law is a little temperate in us – I spare you the Latin formula...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u182	Mater semper certa is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u183	Indeed: Mater semper certa est. Parenthood with the mother is always certain because she gives birth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u184	It has already happened that babies are exchanged!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u185	Beyond this question – changes have already been made in Germany in view of the extensions that have taken place in recent years, notably with the LDC or IVF, in vitro fertilisation – what you are proposing today is a complete denial of the law of filiation, in the name of equality that is not right. No one denies the interest, love or will expressed by a couple of women who wish to have a child. And, even if our views diverge, no one disputes the possibility of having children. But at least the biological mother is recognized! Let us not carry out a legal revolution by building from scratch – I repeat the words of the seal keeper – a legal filiation! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, man is certainly a legal animal. But before that, there are many other things: it is perhaps a mystery, it is in search of its origins, which is the existential quest itself. If we want to place the right above everything else, we risk being caught up in many difficulties, including the bond of blood, biology, perhaps the quest for existence, in any case that of origins, intrinsically buried in each one of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u186	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u187	I would like to respond to our colleagues who asked us why we were in favour of equality between the two women. Simply because it is necessary to place both women at the same level. Because it should not be possible for the other woman, compared to the one who gave birth, to be ousted from a project that they had yet built together. Similarly, because the woman who does not give birth should not become ridiculed of the project in which she has committed herself and for which she is in solidarity. It also seems to us important that this solidarity can be expressed between the two women who will become mothers. We are also thinking about equality between children. Taking the consequences of Article 1 which we have chosen to adopt, we owe the same legal certainty to all children. We create a new mode of filiation, but filiation must be the same for all children because, as you have reminded yourself, it is the best interests of the child that matter here. However, it assumes that nothing can alter filiation with respect to both mothers, single mothers or heterosexual parents. Whatever the marital situation: filiation must have the same strength for all children in our country. That's why we answer yes to equality,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u188	It's artificial!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u189	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... without altering – I insist on this point, which seems important to me – the existing law for heterosexual parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u190	It's not a question of gender!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u191	Forgive me for telling you, but I felt worried about it: neither in this bill nor tomorrow, we will prevent heterosexual parents from designing a child and creating families in a carnal way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u192	Tomorrow you won't stop the GPA!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u193	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] No one will stop him! We just allow more French people to create families and more children to see their filiation secure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u194	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u195	If this is necessary, I would like to dispel an ambiguity: one can obviously be a mother without having given birth! A mother who has adopted is a full mother; It's not because she didn't give birth that she loves her child less. You can't make us say that, we didn't say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u197	It wasn't clear earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u198	Yes, we did not say that at all. What we are claiming, on the other hand, is that there is no justification for the absence, in the text presented, of any mention of the birth of a woman as a founding principle of filiation. It is no longer in the text that we examine: the filiation is no longer based, for one of the two women, on childbirth. This removal of the biological fact is absolutely unbearable to us. It is on this point that we will be intractable, I think I can say, because it is deeply contrary to common sense,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u199	In a common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u200	...as the minister has said, who considers that it goes without saying. But no, it doesn't go without saying: you have to say it! [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] You also explained to us that this was not an equal rights law. Mrs Bergé has just given us the long demonstration that it was one. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u201	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u202	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Republicans are consistent with their own naturalistic logic: in the end, in nature, there is no equality or even freedom; Everyone is subject to nature...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u203	It's caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u204	I'm just following your logic, which leads to a circle. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] What we propose is to get out of it through a contract, a so-called "social" contract, in which we issue rights, which frees us and leads to equality. It is a principle of political law and positive law: On the one hand there is positive law, on the other there is naturalism. After that, each one has its own logic, but I think we also need to move a little further forward in the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u205	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u206	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I heard things earlier that make me feel a little uncomfortable. You talked, Mr. Di Filippo, Mr. Gosselin, about the denial of biology. Be careful when talking about biology denial, biological filiation, or so-called "organic," about PMA for homoparental couples. Do not forget, however, that before the opening of the LDC to all women, it existed for heterosexual couples, for whom a particular filiation was already provided for in our code, filiation which is not based on the famous blood link that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u207	But on the likelihood!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u208	Be careful, do not deny these fathers the validity of their filiation. You also referred to the fact that we could search for the fatherage. I'm sorry, but it didn't exist. Article 311-19 of the Civil Code – as was already read and repeated last week – which is referred to in article 342-9 in the text under discussion, states: "In the case of medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, no relationship of filiation can be established between the author of the gift and the child born of procreation. No liability action may be taken against the donor. This hypothesis of paternity research targeting the donor as a breeder therefore did not exist for heterosexual couples practising an LDC; It will not exist any more tomorrow for women's couples or single women who will practice one. This question is not in law: the 1994 legislator treated it and evacuated it, and it's going very well. On this subject, we have no litigation, no conflict situations! So rest assured: the heterosexual parenting of the father based not on biology, but on the act of will that constitutes prior consent to the LDC, given in front of notary, it works well. And, if the father – the one who signed the consent to the LDC – fails, the mother can have her filiation established.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u209	Read Mr. Touraine's report again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u210	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But it turns out that we didn't have a dispute about it, and it doesn't seem to me very curious: since a couple is taking an AMP approach, that's necessarily the sign that, as the parenting project is strong enough to go through its stages, there will be no failure. Therefore, this failure did not occur. Moreover, if it had taken place, a means of protection already existed: that used in cases where filiation is not strictly biological in nature, and it works well. We need to reassure ourselves and not denigrate heterosexual families who have practiced MPAs, it's really important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u211	We never denigrated them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u212	Secondly, on the reading of Title VII in general, I understand that it is the subject of debate between sociological realism, on the one hand, and strict biology on the other. One can try to say that this is a debate that has been taking place in the legal profession for a long time, and that it will still cause a lot of ink to flow, I imagine, probably still after the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u213	It'll be too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u214	It can also be said that beyond a strictly biological or strictly realistic reading, it is possible to pick in the civil code: it defines filiations where the biological aspect coincides with the legal recognition attributed to it, where the legal construction follows the biological fact; and then there are cases, as in articles 311-19 and 311-20 at present, and tomorrow at 342-9, 342-10, 342-11, 342-12 and 342-13, where legal filiation will not necessarily follow biological, and that is not serious. It is not because these two types of filiation coexist that they oppose each other. We must not panic, but reason to keep, and say that families will continue to exist, whether they go through an MPA or other more traditional techniques...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u215	Yes, families exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u216	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, so at least we agree on that, sir. Let us be careful as we move forward in the debates. This was said about mothers, who may have given birth or adopted; I'm telling you now about the fathers who practiced an AMP. When we speak, let us be careful not to upset families that already exist and whose children feel fully children of their parents, and for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u217	We're very careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u218	The keeper of the seals defends a legal construction of all parts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u219	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u220	Since many things have been said, I would just like to add two words in response to what I have heard on the benches on the right and perhaps also to Mrs Autain. I've been pretty clear, I think, but maybe not enough. We are, with regard to procreation, in an unprecedented situation: we must define a method of establishing filiation for a couple of women, which obliges us to create another method of establishing filiation, distinct from what already exists in our civil code. Yes, I say it clearly, it is a revolution, but a quiet revolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u221	The quiet force, it's dated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u222	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That is what we want to do together. I just wanted to add this and assume it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u223	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor, after which I will put to the vote these deletion amendments, which will be the first on which we will have voted this evening...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u224	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] To ensure equality between children, you claim, Mrs Bergé, the same filiation for all. But the opposite will happen: some children will be deprived of paternal filiation; others – those of single women – will be deprived of dual filiation. Where is equality for children? Madam rapporteur, we must not caricature. So far, in France, 96% of the children from the AMP are from the gametes of the two parents without a third donor, and the remaining 4%, with a third donor, all have a father. Now you're changing everything. The question of the voluntary deprivation of a father by law, the guardian of seals, could even be brought before the courts. You did not reply: how would the deliberate erasure of the father by law not characterize harm to the child? [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Several said the company would be ready. Yet a poll, released last Tuesday by the FIFG, tells us the opposite: 83% of French people reaffirm the right of every child to have a father! Let us respect them, ladies and gentlemen, and let us not provoke a revolution of filiation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u225	I therefore put these deletion amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u226	[[Smile]] Follow Mr Ferrand's example, have them adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u227	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2011 and 1481, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 2011.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u228	Article 4 is a major step forward and, like you, Madam Commissioner for Seals, the rapporteur, I wanted to welcome it to this House. This article originally provided for the creation of a new method of establishing filiation, known as "an advance joint declaration of will". After the hearings and the debates in committee, the Government, together with the rapporteur, submitted a new wording. However, there seems to be room for further improvement because, as has been heard in these debates, a distinction remains according to the nature of the couples. My amendment is in line with the position defended earlier by Mr Gérard: it aims to extend to women's couples the legal regime currently applicable to couples composed of a man and a woman, provided for in Article 311-20 of the Civil Code, which already bases the filiation of children born to the AGP on the consent expressed by the parent before the notary. The extension of article 311-20 to the benefit of women's couples would not imply any disruption: it would simply be a matter of providing that the same responsibility for the coming into the world of the child would correspond to the same method of establishing filiation, subject to the same legal regime. Furthermore, as the rapporteur has said, this legal regime seems perfectly secure for the child as well as for the parents. He has proved himself, since 1994, for couples of different sexes, with the consent to insemination and transfer of embryos. Article 311-20 therefore guarantees the establishment of filiation in respect of those who have consented to the assistance, but does not prevent contestation of filiation when the consent was ineffective or when the child is not a result of reproductive medical assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u229	Amendment No 1481 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u230	We've just talked about it for quite a while. We proposed, in committee, a position of balance between different legal options: a first option, which was that of the bill, with title VII bis and this advance declaration of will; Another, which had been presented to us at length by various associations, then by lawyers and professors of law, on the extension of the famous article 311-20. You know I wasn't insensitive, and it would be hypocritical of me to tell you otherwise. That being said, I understand the important arguments of the custody of the seals on the parental project; I understand this desire to draw the consequences, in the civil code, of what we voted in the end in Article 1, that is, that this parental project would form the basis for access to the AGP and consequently the filiation within the framework of the AGP. If it had been another type of law – a reform of the law of filiation, for example – I might have made other comments; But since we are here to draw the consequences of a parenting project that motivates the extension of a technique to other types of couples, I am obliged to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u232	It's unfavorable, of course. We will have the opportunity to return, but the extension of the rules applicable to unmarried heterosexual couples does not seem to me to be able to work for the women's couples we are talking about here. The previous rules were established on the basis of biological likelihood. One can be for or against but, in this case, that is why and how they have been established. As I have told you, we have made the deliberate choice not to touch these rules, and it seems to me that the situations are not comparable. The method of establishing filiation for a couple of women cannot be based on the hypothesis of biological likelihood. There is, of course, another way of establishing filiation. It cannot be the transposition of what exists. Furthermore – that is a simple clarification – Article 311-20, which you are referring to, Mr Fuchs, and to which the rapporteur has alluded, is not intended to establish filiation; it makes consent to the AGP the sine qua non condition for it to take place thereafter. It is therefore an article on consent, not on the method of establishing filiation. Of course, he then comes to secure filiation, but he does not establish it. What establishes filiation is, of course, the normal rules of Title VII, as already provided for. Therefore, section 311-20 cannot be transposed in this way. That is why, in the project we propose to you, it is deleted and rewritten to adapt to the new situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u233	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u234	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Both the rapporteur and the Keeper of the Seals spoke of a parenting project, saying that it was something essential. This refers to the amendment which President Ferrand has adopted in a scandalous manner. It's not for nothing that there was this premeditated trick. He first put the amendment to the vote, saying that he had a favourable opinion from the Government, whereas it was merely a wisdom opinion. Of the 2000 amendments, about 20 were tabled on the text, and only about 20 received a wisdom opinion from the Government; It cannot therefore be said that this has not been done on purpose. Then everyone saw how the vote was rigged. I would therefore simply like it to be noted that there is a problem with the concept of a parenting project, as well as with this amendment which was adopted by President Ferrand alone, because everything else follows on from this concept of a parenting project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u236	We will also ask Mrs Fuchs to keep the seals when we consider our own amendments, the spirit of which is similar to that of our colleague Fuchs. I do not understand the argument that the current mode cannot be transposed to women's couples. Indeed, a heterosexual couple using the LDC is not subject to the early recognition procedure that you propose, even though in this case filiation is not based on biological likelihood since a third-party donor is involved. We will present several amendments designed to simplify, both with regard to the legal certainty of filiation and the procedures for establishing it, the current system, rather than to complicate it as you do. The argument of biological likelihood is ineffective for heterosexual couples using the LDC. So you can't use it for homosexual couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u237	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u238	The last demonstration of Mrs. the Keeper of the Seals recalling that the establishment of filiation for heterosexual couples using the AMP with third-party donor is not based on Article 311-20 of the Civil Code causes the castle of cards built by the advocates of the parental project to collapse a little to establish filiation, as opposed to that which, in the couple of women, relates to the biological reality – that is, the fact that one of the two is mother because she gives birth. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I once again ask the question that I have already submitted to you – it seems to me that I will have to do so several times and for a long time. In addition to the demonstration I have just mentioned, you state that, in the case of a couple of women, filiation with the one who gave birth is based on biological reality despite everything, but at the same time you rely on the parenting project to justify the requirement of a joint act of the two women aimed, in a way, at recognizing the child in advance. You can see that there is a legal contradiction here. I do not see how the Constitutional Council could validate either this kind of dual filiation towards the biological mother, or the primacy given in fine to the filiation of will in the case of a couple of women and, tomorrow, in other cases. Some argue that filiation of will already exists largely in the civil code. But no: it exists only in the case of adoption and possibly in the case of recognition by a man of a child that his breeder would not have recognized himself. All other cases relate little or no to biological reality and likelihood. You are caught in a contradiction that you will not come out of without creating a difference – I am not talking about discrimination, though – between the two mothers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u239	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u240	The Socialist Group supports Mr Fuchs' amendment, similar to their amendment No 2026, on which we have called for a public vote. A difference in the manner in which filiation is established does not imply a hierarchy between the two parents. In heterosexual couples, in the case of LDCs, patterns are distinct but the mother is not considered superior to the father. The common law must apply to women's couples. What you think is inappropriate, Madam Keeper of the Seals, seems to us to be the best solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u241	I have before me three amendments, Nos 156, 429 and 152, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 156 and 429 are identical. Amendment No 156 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 429.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u242	Because of the muzzled time programmed, it is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u243	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 152.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u244	While hostile to the opening of the LDC to women's couples, you can understand your concern to establish a bond of filiation with the mother who does not give birth as strong as with the mother who gives birth. Once the right to the LDC was recognized, it was legitimate for the woman who had not given birth to wish her sonhood to be inviolable. On the other hand, from the legal point of view, I would say, it is not clear why you are introducing the following provision into the preliminary title of the Civil Code: "All children whose parentage is legally established shall have the same rights and duties in their relations with their parents". The preliminary title does not have such an object, as you know better than I do, Madam Keeper of the Seals: it is devoted to the interpretation, publication, effects and application of the law, not to a particular issue such as filiation. I would like you to justify your choice to place these provisions in the preliminary title.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u245	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u246	You propose to remove this very pretty part of the text: "All children whose filiation is legally established have, in their relations with their parents, the same rights and duties". That would seem a shame to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u247	It's about making her disappear from this part of the civil code!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u248	In fact, the text is simply changing. Article 310 of the Civil Code already states: "All children whose parentage is legally established have the same rights and duties in their dealings with their father and mother. They enter each other's family. But since the LDC is open to women's couples, one must be able to consider everyone in order to establish filiation. It seems much clearer to me to make these provisions a principal article, because the subject was too much for debate. This also enables all children to be brought together. It seems to me to have heard you say, to justify the deletion of the article,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u249	The deletion of the provision at this place from the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u250	...that you fight for all children, that they may be on an equal footing. You should therefore be satisfied with this part of the text. I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u252	The aim here is to reaffirm, in principle, that, whatever the method of establishing their filiation, all children are equal. On the contrary of you, I find it very beautiful that these words, which we expressly wanted, appear after Article 6(1) of the Civil Code in a clear and obvious way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u253	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u254	Let us be clear, no one disputes the equivalent rights for children; the law doesn't even need to clarify it. I refer to a text that overlooks our entire legal structure: the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen, article 1 of which proclaims that "men are born and remain free and equal in rights. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u255	What about the women? What about the kids?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u256	The words "men" obviously refer to humanity, which includes children, women, adults, the elderly, all those who make up the French population and, for other rights, the citizens – but this is not the subject of our debate. No one disputes equality between children. We have no intention of going back in this respect, it is not the subject. Your text, however, leads to an impasse. This has been said very well before: this impasse is the result of the primacy that you give to the parenting project, which takes precedence over any other consideration. This choice has a very strong impact, particularly in the case of women's couples. No one disputes the affection, the desire of the child, etc. But you deny a biological reality. Everything was said earlier: since the primacy of the parental project is an obstacle to the taking into account of biology, one inevitably leads to the disconnection of biology and of filiation – our colleague Raphaël Gérard has been explicit – thus opening the way to other practices, such as multi-parentality or gestation for others, even though the Minister of Solidarity and Health claims that it is not a text of equality! See how ambiguous you are: to get along would not be a text of equality, but equality is the primary argument on which you base your legal revolution! It's completely contradictory! If you want to be consistent in your approach, which I do not agree with, you have to decide whether it is a text of equality or not. At one point, you will have to get out of the ambiguity and assume your choice completely. The legal revolution that you propose poses a problem: your legal construction undermines the French structure of filiation. We can assume it, but still we should say it and not turn around the pot as you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u257	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u258	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u259	I come back to the arguments that have been developed. We present the amendments to delete sub-paragraphs 2 to 6 for a specific reason. Article 4 provides for the deletion of article 310 of the Civil Code, which proclaims the principle of equality between all children and introduces an unjustified exception in the new article 6-2 for children adopted in simple form. Article 358, which the bill repeals, recalls equal rights in the case of full adoption. It should therefore not be repealed because it protects the adoptions in plenary form. Moreover, in the interests of readability for the citizen, the displacement of articles outside Titles VII and VIII is inappropriate – some lawyers we have heard insisted on this point. Thus, the principle of equality at the top of the civil code is unnecessary since it is already provided for in Articles 310 and 358 which must be maintained. Our colleague Gosselin has shown it, you're making a mess. In a field like filiation, we can't afford it! We are part of a logic of whistleblowers: we wish to warn the Government that what it is doing is particularly inconsistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u261	Amendment No 1488 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u262	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-02-O1005.u263	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of the bill adopted by the Senate, following the initiation of the accelerated procedure, authorizing the ratification of the Treaty between the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on Franco-German cooperation and integration; Discussion of the motion for a resolution, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, for a dynamic and forward-looking Franco-German friendship at the service of Europe and for the swift and ambitious implementation of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
