ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on Franco-German parliamentary cooperation (No 1725). If it adopts, as I hope, this motion for a resolution, our House will make a far-reaching choice for relations between our two countries, particularly in the troubled European context that we know. The agreement annexed to it, which provides for the formation of a Franco-German parliamentary assembly, is a particularly significant manifestation of our desire to constantly deepen our cooperation and, beyond that, a singular witness to the friendship and confidence that bring our two countries closer together. As the French and German governments renewed and strengthened Franco-German ties in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle on 22 January, the Bundestag and the National Assembly are about to build a unique parliamentary institution, whose specificity reflects the intensity of our relationship. The Assembly, which is made up of equal members of the French and German Parliaments, would become the parliamentary equivalent of the Councils of Franco-German Ministers. The regular meeting of representatives of our two peoples would make it possible to deepen our cooperation, to work towards the harmonization of our rights and to develop common approaches on various subjects. All political groups and committees would be represented. We would thus create the conditions for starting a Franco-German legislative convergence. This new assembly would also be a laboratory for testing Franco-German initiatives which could then be proposed to all our European partners. All the political groups in our Assembly have been invited to submit a written contribution setting out their position. These contributions were published in a booklet sent to you. In addition, I am pleased to note that six group presidents have co-signed the motion for a resolution. I see this as a sign that the mechanisms created by this agreement have broad agreement on the benches of our assembly, and I want to see it as a guarantee of success for the future Franco-German assembly. [[Mrs. and Mr. MEPs and the Minister for European Affairs rise and applaud]] Before we begin our discussions, I would like to welcome the presence in the fora of a delegation of German Members of the working group responsible for drawing up the parliamentary agreement that we are going to discuss today. Let me pay special tribute to Mr Andreas Jung, who has played a particular role in the leadership of this group and, more generally, in the service of friendship between our two parliaments. Colleagues, I welcome you on behalf of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u2	Mrs Sabine Thillaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u3	Beyond any substantive consideration, I feel an intense emotion when I see that it is now possible to debate a motion for a resolution on an unprecedented deepening of Franco-German parliamentary cooperation. Because of my personal history and because of my duties in this assembly, I can measure the full extent of it. It is often said that the speech delivered by President Emmanuel Macron at the Sorbonne did not find an answer. However, three German parliamentarians, Andreas Jung, Michael Georg Link and Franziska Brantner, have published a trans-partisan forum that was in fact a parliamentary response to this speech. In addition, the Presidents of our respective assemblies have shown a forward-looking political will to promote Franco-German relations for the benefit of the European Union as a whole. Parliamentary involvement is therefore a way of moving some issues forward. How far since the formation, a little over a year ago, of a Franco-German working group to reflect on how to initiate a new mode of cooperation between the Bundestag and the National Assembly! For the first time, 18 German and French MEPs have been mandated by all the political groups in our assemblies to create synergies and pave the way for new opportunities. This intense work was to be carried out relatively quickly, on the basis of the joint resolution of 22 January 2018. We held seven joint meetings and heard from many actors in Franco-German relations, including ministers Nathalie Loiseau and Michael Roth, parliamentarians and civil society actors. We have even decentralized our work in Strasbourg to focus our attention on the specific challenges of the laboratories of Franco-German cooperation, namely the cross-border territories. This work has put us in direct contact with the differences in the legal and political organization of our States. We have been led to imagine together ambitious solutions guaranteeing the rights of everyone. Our work has resulted in a parliamentary agreement which President Ferrand's motion for a resolution proposes to you to adopt. The creation of a Franco-German parliamentary assembly is an innovation that could well inspire interparliamentary cooperation in other settings. This 100-member joint assembly is a new working body – I insist on the word "work" – which will, thanks to the regular gathering of Members on each side of the Rhine, constitute a veritable Franco-German watchdog, entrusts all the bodies of our two Parliaments to take into account the recommendations of this new assembly in order to transform its deliberations into acts. Moreover, our cooperation must be anchored in the daily activities of our committees, through joint meetings, joint hearings or joint trips. Learn more about our operations, our legal tools, our working methods, and how to take the other's perspective into account. It is on trust that we can build an in-depth work, in order to bring our views closer together and bring our rights and, more broadly, our respective models together. Let us not deceive ourselves: this work will be arduous. Our assemblies must commit themselves to simplifying, harmonising and converging national laws as much as possible, in order to reduce the difficulties of everyday life and to devise solutions that can be replicated beyond cross-border territories. I already hear the critics fuser. I will name only a few: the alleged exclusivity of the Franco-German couple to the detriment of the European Union, German hegemony, German ordoliberalism imposed, the auctioning of French interests. But excess skepticism and cynicism have never moved things forward. Europe and the Franco-German couple deserve better than that. Today, the status quo is no longer possible. Regularly, the Franco-German agreement irritates others, but "irritation turns into pain if France and Germany disagree," as Jean-Claude Juncker pointed out in Aix-la-Chapelle. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Let us acknowledge that we are examining its strength and scope: it aims to give a new quality to our bilateral cooperation for the benefit of the European Union as a whole. It is up to us, parliamentarians, to play our full role! Let's take the risk of succeeding!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u4	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u5	The Treaty of Elysée, intended by Chancellor Adenauer and President de Gaulle, was the founding act of Franco-German cooperation for more than half a century. This was a strong political act because it was essential to create the conciliatory momentum between our two nations after the Second World War. It is also this Franco-German cooperation that allowed the development of European integration, thanks to a real dynamic promoted by the Franco-German couple. It is in order to prolong this founding act of the Elysée Treaty and give it a new impetus that, for more than a year, the Bundestag and the National Assembly have worked together to reach today this motion for a resolution on Franco-German parliamentary cooperation. The political family in which I belong and on whose behalf I speak here this afternoon has worked tirelessly since 1963 to ensure that the Franco-German relationship is strong, fruitful and generating positive impulses for the Europe of peoples and citizens. In this we are faithful to the spirit of the founders and signatories of the Elysée Treaty. That is also why we obviously support this motion for a resolution. It should not be confused with the Treaty of Aachen recently signed by Chancellor Merkel and President Macron. This is an act of a different scope, since we are creating, as a follow-up to the bilateral working group, a Franco-German parliamentary assembly whose role is to follow up on the councils of Franco-German ministers and to formulate proposals to promote the convergence of the law in force in our two countries. The aim is to promote closer cooperation between the National Assembly and the German Bundestag. The symbolic scope of such a parliamentary assembly is obviously very strong. Elected from Alsace, I can only rejoice at such a creation because, since the Elysée Treaty, on both sides of the Rhine, cross-border cooperation has become a very strong reality around the Rhine basin. This cooperation contributes to the prosperity of our citizens and our territories on both banks of the Rhine. It has developed in very different fields: cultural, of course, by learning the language of the neighbour, but also economic, with truly Franco-German companies, or in transport, to facilitate the movement of people and goods between our two countries. Finally, it is also the creation of a formidable dynamic in the field of higher education and research, with for example the creation of Eucor, a unique university group composed of the universities of Basel, Fribourg, Karlsruhe, Haute-Alsace and Strasbourg, which allows to circulate researchers and students across borders, in order to develop to the best the potential constituted by 15,000 researchers, 11,000 doctoral students and 115000 students, i.e. a concentration of grey matter equal to that of Silicon Valley, California. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] In addition, I would also like to express my clear and firm regret at the false information that has recently circulated around Franco-German cooperation, which has been collagged by very malicious people with regard to this cooperation. Let us affirm it once and for all: no, Alsace was not sold to Germany! However, we expect our German partners to support the continuation of the European Parliament in Strasbourg. For us, this resolution, like the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, is only the extension of the Treaty of Elysée...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u6	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u7	... and is fully in line with his spirit of rapprochement with our two peoples. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In parliamentary matters, starting today – because I do not imagine for a moment that this resolution may not be adopted, given the number of co-signatory groups – we will move on to the implementation phase. The real effectiveness of this Franco-German assembly can be measured by the latter. Let us therefore be enthusiastic, but also very pragmatic, so that Franco-German parliamentary cooperation in particular and Franco-German cooperation in general can flourish.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u8	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u9	Mr President, Mr Freunde, ladies and gentlemen, some of the debates in this House have a particular resonance and the resolution we are about to vote on is both innovative and historic. It is the result of a co-construction work carried out between the Bundestag and the National Assembly: a group of eighteen deputies – nine French and nine Germans – mandated by our two assemblies to formulate proposals and co-chaired by Christophe Arend, Sabine Thillaye and Andreas Jung, whom I also welcome, drew up a proposal for a Franco-German parliamentary assembly and submitted it, in mid-September, to Lübeck, to the two offices of the National Assembly and the Bundestag, which validated it – as a large majority of the political groups did – with a view to submitting it to our vote today. The MODEM Group is co-signatory to this resolution, which it obviously supports. We expect this parliamentary assembly to pursue three fundamental objectives. The first is a kind of joint control of our respective executive for the proper implementation of the Treaty of Aachen, to which we attach great importance. Sharing good practice in this area between our two parliaments can also be mutually beneficial. The second objective is to work very concretely on the convergence of our two rights. At the meetings of the working group, we have often referred to the transposition of European directives: we are, for many of us, in favour of a logic that would like, by default, we to transpose the European directives in France and Germany in the same way, while keeping our freedom to do differently if necessary. Today, it is almost by accident that the transposition is identical. The Parliamentary Assembly can therefore help to be vigilant on this point. It can also help us bring our two rights closer together on fundamental issues, such as the regulatory environment of our businesses, so important for our SMEs. This is the subject of a civil society initiative, which brings together 200 French and German jurists to work on the convergence of our two rights with a view to creating a Franco-German code of business which would be the embryo of a European code in this field. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly can become the operational tool of such initiatives and convergence, which is defined as an objective in the Treaty of Aachen. The third objective is to identify common positions between our respective thematic committees in order to weigh more and better at European level. The national parliaments must fully play their part in this European logic, which would allow us to maintain a more abundant and structured communication with our colleagues in the European Parliament – which I, in turn, would remind, Patrick Hetzel, that the seat is in Strasbourg and is intended to remain there. If we are in favour of this Franco-German parliamentary assembly, it is because we base this reasoning on the conviction that, in the state of fragility in which the European Union is today, France and Germany have a special responsibility, of the same order as that which had to do with this Franco-German relationship at the time of the founding fathers, when the Union was created. A parliamentary report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs has given us the opportunity to work with many economists and to stress in particular that if, when the single currency was created, the euro area was aimed at the convergence of our economies, the reality today is that of a divergence. Many of the European institutional solutions are not decisive enough to take the step of this convergence: at twenty-seven, with the rule of unanimity, it is sometimes impossible and, at nineteen, it is sometimes too late. The Franco-German couple can drive a new logic in this direction, by bringing together as many of our European colleagues as possible, to define a new convergence target to which we could go in parallel and advance this spirit of convergence within the Union. This is what I call "parallel convergence" – I hope Cédric Villani will not be offended by this mathematical oxymore. The 18-member working group has set an example of what could be the relationship between our parliaments, both listening and respecting, but also being frank; of pragmatism and meaning of the result, but also of boldness. That is what this working group is proposing to us today. [[Smile]] The resolution we are debating is not only innovative, it is also historic. Let us not be mistaken: it is really a new page in Franco-German history that we write. At the working meetings, one of our German colleagues pointed out to me that, to refer to this Franco-German relationship, we often speak of "couple", while the Germans speak of "motor", which shows the full content of our cultural differences. But the result and the intention are the same: with this Franco-German rapprochement, it is a matter of instilling a new dynamic within the Union. By writing this new page in the history of Franco-German relations, we succeed the generations who imagined the European Union, who built and developed the project: it is up to us to reinvent it, and perhaps the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly can give an impetus in this direction. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM and LT groups]] The region from which I come, the Great East, from the Ardennes and the Marne to the Lower Rhine, has paid a heavy price for these fratricidal wars that have opposed us. I know that all the families who have paid the price of blood will pay particular attention to the fact that, a hundred years after the end of the First World War and more than seventy years after the end of the second, we attach so much importance to this Franco-German friendship so hopeful. As for those of us who come from these families, they will, in voting on this resolution, strongly reiterate that today we are giving our common past, sometimes fratricidal and sometimes inspiring, the right place that it must find in our present to help us build a common European future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u10	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution on Franco-German parliamentary cooperation, which is reflected in the creation of a Franco-German parliamentary assembly, marks a new stage in relations between our two countries aimed at promoting European integration. For the first time in the history of France and Germany, it is in the field of national legislative construction that a better convergence is sought: among the tasks of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly is to "make proposals on any issue relevant to Franco-German relations with a view to moving towards a convergence of French and German rights". I say, "for the first time," because it is a "first" approach that leads us to explore new forms of cooperation. It is, to say the truth, essentially institutionally that this is the first, because we Socialists and Social Democrats did not wait for this Franco-German assembly to strengthen our legislative cooperation in areas that lie at the border between national legislation and European legislation. Since 2016, we Socialist and Social Democrats, members of the Finance and Budget Committees of the national parliaments of the 28 Member States of the Union, have been meeting every six months to defend common positions on certain issues. This is an innovative approach, which has proved to be very constructive. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, which we are proposed to create, therefore seems to me to be part of the continuation of this approach: it is not a question of locking the Franco-German couple – or the "engine" – in an exclusive and executive form, but, on the contrary, of strengthening it by coordinating the national and the European and by making it live outside the executive couple, which is often the only image that the French and the Germans have of it, since de Gaulle and Adenauer, passing of course by the Mitterrand-Kohl couple. Making this Franco-German assembly live and enabling it to achieve progress requires strengthening the method adopted for our common work. Thus, it is necessary that this Assembly, conducted with a view to strengthening the European Union, avoids the differences which have weakened the whole of Europe in certain areas – whether it is the economic sphere, the social protection stakes or the resolution of the migration crisis. The lack of a common solution in these areas translates de facto into a form of anti-cooperation, or even competition, which undermines the building of a true sense of European belonging. In order to ensure that this approach quickly leads to concrete results, it would be desirable for the first meeting of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly to be able to deliberate on the list of subjects on which there are important differences today and that each of these subjects could be the subject of work and proposals by the relevant committees – I think, of course, of course, of the debt level for France, the level of investment for Germany and the introduction of social VAT in Germany in 2007 which led, in fact, to a kind of anti-cooperation. All subjects who are angry should be put on the table. I come to the second proposal: Germany appears ahead of France in terms of subsidiarity control and, more generally, in terms of legislative coordination between the European Parliament and the Bundestag. Indeed, the Bundestag has for several years had a genuine permanent representation in Brussels. Germany has invested in parliamentary scrutiny, both at national level and in the European Parliament. It has, in many respects, a lead over its partners. For its part, the National Assembly has only two officials in Brussels. It could therefore be envisaged that the two parliamentary representations, French and German, although distinct, share common premises, along the lines of the joint diplomatic representations of certain countries of the European Union. Finally, the third proposal: strengthening the link between parliamentary groups is essential. [[Applause on the SOC benches, on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] The ultimate objective of this Franco-German assembly must be to strengthen the European Union, relying on a Franco-German couple working together beyond the work of the President of the Republic and the Chancellor. It must help to promote the construction of a European identity, which is being undermined by those who want to bend back on themselves, while it must enable our interlocutors to recognise us as Europeans. As François Mitterrand pointed out, whose advice resonates more than ever: "Never separate the greatness of France from the construction of Europe"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u12	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen and, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the Bundestag, I am pleased to support, on behalf of the UDI Group, the adoption of the motion for a resolution on Franco-German parliamentary cooperation. The project we are debating today is the result of a work of elaboration which has been carried out throughout 2018, and which has led a delegation of nine French Members to dialogue, in a constructive and now friendly state of mind, with the nine Members of the Bundestag appointed for this purpose. The results of this work were the subject of a first meeting of the Bureaux of the two Assemblies, here on 14 November. This preparation took place in parallel with that which mobilized the chancelleries of our two countries, which led to the Treaty of Aachen, signed by the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, and by Chancellor Angela Merkel on 22 January. Renewing our friendship pact on the anniversary day of the Elysée Treaty, walking in the footsteps of the couple of Gaulle-Adenauer, has a symbolic dimension that has not escaped anyone. January 22, 1963 is a key date for a period of peace and prosperity that finally embraced the entire Old Continent. Other symbolic images, such as those of the Mitterrand-Kohl couple in Verdun, or that of Jacques Chirac reserving a fraternal welcome to Gerhard Schröder, on the sixtieth anniversary of the Normandy landing, embody this peaceful rapprochement in collective memory. For the Alsatian chosen I am, these gestures of friendship have a very strong resonance. Franco-German reconciliation, after three deadly conflicts that marked each family, remains a major event for Alsace. The population is particularly sensitive to anything that looks like distortions of treatment or obstacles to free movement. That is why giving more content to cross-border cooperation will be welcome in our territories. In my view, the phrase by Robert Schuman, who was the representative of an asserting pro-European right, that "Europe will be achieved through concrete achievements", remains a glaring truth. This is why this Franco-German initiative takes on its real dimension only in the broader perspective of strengthening the common building of the European Union. The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle is not a duo of soloists who would ignore the importance of the rest of the orchestra; On the contrary, it must produce a driving effect and help to enhance the overall harmony. The enlargement and deepening of the European Union has often been opposed, without closing the debate or proposing a concrete solution. I therefore believe that the creation of a Franco-German parliamentary assembly can and should contribute to this process of deepening so often invoked. It allows currents of transversal ideas to express themselves in a decision-making architecture that remains very vertical. The European legislative process produces regulations and directives, each of the Member States trying to translate them into its law. The principle that two national parliaments can discuss how to transcribe a directive seems to me to be a step forward and should make it possible to limit the often denounced attempts to overtransposition. In a reverse movement, decisions falling within national competence, if they do not take into account border effects, can create, recreate barriers, often unintentionally, when Europe wants to produce convergence and harmonisation. In this respect, the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly can usefully contribute to early warning of national parliaments when such risks arise, in particular with regard to taxation or social rights. The idea of a right to differentiation, defended by the President of the Republic with a view to constitutional reform, would be a welcome tool to erase the greatest asperities at the borders. In doing so, this body of parliamentarians, which will be the voice of our fellow citizens, will enable them to participate indirectly in choices which, for the most part, do not yet exist for them. I am well aware that, ideally, this work of consultation should be carried out with all our neighbouring countries. The project we are carrying with Germany must be seen as a laboratory, a source of inspiration for other similar initiatives. Already, I call on the future members of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly to show imagination, boldness and character. It will be for them, and even more so for those who succeed us, to make this agreement live, to demonstrate its relevance and to write its living history. As an example, and even before the new assembly was set up, the CDU of Baden-Württemberg sent me a position in favour of strengthening Franco-German cooperation in the field of defence, with a view to relaunching this issue at European Union level. The connoisseurs will measure the giant step thus achieved, in a Germany traditionally very frileous on this sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u14	Traditionally, traditionally...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u15	It is also true that France has evolved on its energy policy and has decided to close the Fessenheim nuclear power plant, a source of recurrent tensions across the Rhine, while on the left bank of the Rhine it is the controversy over the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg that is causing tension. Everyone has to learn to take one step towards the other. This can lead to remarkable cooperations such as Eucor in the fields of research and innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, the European model that we have known, the one that allowed France to take up the challenge of decolonization, the one that offered us the ground for the modernization of the 1960s, the one that gave us the euro, the one that today serves as a box of resonance to the voice of France in the world – in a word, the one that allowed us to enter the high head in the 21st century – this model, let us admit, is in crisis. Should we therefore rebuild our borders and deconstruct the building, as the so-called populist movements invite us to do? On the other hand, should we forceps impose more Europe, even though the mistrust of our fellow citizens has never been so strong? Both of these solutions, for various and antagonistic reasons, are risky, dangerous and even suicidal. This issue is the existential question that we must answer. Certainly, and fortunately, it will be at the centre of the next European election to which the various political parties are preparing. I simply wish that the coming weeks will see the emergence of a genuine debate and a sound clarification. This parliamentary agreement, if it does not create a comprehensive construction, is precisely a tangible element for improving Europe. To the cynics who claim that it seals the loss of our sovereignty, we reply that it imposes nothing, but encourages, on the contrary, to work hand in hand, with a view to simplification, and therefore efficiency, in the shared interest of our peoples. It introduces the parliamentary counterpoint, inherent in any democracy, to the decisions taken so far, and for a long time, by the Franco-German Council of Ministers. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LaREM groups. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier applauds]] It is because we share this vision of a future of progress for our countries and peoples, because we reaffirm our confidence in this Europe which has brought us so much and without which France would be in great pains to face the challenges of tomorrow, because we have faith in the conquering spirit of those who will follow us, that we support this resolution and encourage our colleagues in the Bundestag to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u16	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u17	Our German colleagues must rejoice at the romanticism that prevails here about Franco-German relations. I'm sorry to say I'm going to put an end to it...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u18	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u19	... at least in the speech because, like you, I share the affection and the necessity of fraternity. Whatever effort the president of our assembly has made – and he has made a lot of it, I want to pay him that tribute – he will not have convinced us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u20	We expected it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u21	The very idea of this Franco-German condominium unbears us. It is not in line with France's interests, whose views and sympathies, especially cultural ones, are very much in the south of Europe: nothing must be done that disappoints the other partners of Europe by giving them the idea that everything is decided by two.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u22	We didn't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u23	Moreover, we are very opposed to the creation of special rights for cross-border regions, which would break the unity and indivisibility of the law, which are consubstantial to the French Republic, even though we know perfectly well that in Germany the Länder have this difference of regulation and law. We don't have a Land in France, and it's not a good find.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u24	Yes, there are Länder.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u25	We also strongly disapprove of this idea of tackling NATO and ordoliberalism, the official doctrine of the German conservative majority, which is often taken over by the social democrats themselves who have been converted. [[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] Furthermore, we no longer believe that there is any sense in signing such treaties within Europe without the prior organisation of a referendum, so that the peoples may accept them rather than discover them by means of debates in which they are unaware of the ins and outs, for lack of knowledge that a particular text had been adopted. Above all, we believe that the ideological environment of a text counts almost as much as the text itself, in the present circumstances of a Europe in the process of disintegration: this process of decomposition challenges us all to find solutions to prevent it from going to chaos. That is why we have so badly received Mrs Kramp-Karrenbauer's letter, which was issued today. I would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of our Republic has taken care of the text he has drafted and addressed to Europeans, whatever we think, not to question, to provoke or to question anyone in Europe. The French have therefore, by his voice, and whatever one thinks of it, made proposals. It is a completely different tone that Mrs Kramp-Karrenbauer has for us. It offers many unbearable things to hear in the Romanesque setting that reigns today!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u26	Long live romance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u27	How can we speak of support for the European way – moreover, expressed in English: European way of life – without saying a word of the 87 million poor linked to this particular economic model, without saying a word of the millions of unemployed, without reaching out to them, if at all, a hand? Mrs Kramp-Karrenbauer is, of course, right to point out that we are resolving our problems through negotiation and, it seems, our link within the Atlantic Alliance. However, this is not the case for the French who, since General de Gaulle, have been defending themselves! As for the negotiations, we are, of course, supporters, and have given up without any difficulty to be invaded! In her view, Europe would lack clarity. And to take, as an example, the difficulty that the Union would have in adopting a position on Venezuela: what a joke! According to her, it would take us an eternity to decide: apparently, we also need one to determine our position towards the Algerian people, who are at our borders and with whom we have a special relationship based on the existence of 3.2 million black feet, sons and daughters of black feet, grandsons and granddaughters of black feet, as well as 3.5 million binationals. So we are, in one way or another, totally concerned about this matter: we should have something to say! It also seems that wealth should be produced before it is distributed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u29	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] If this truism enjoys a great favor, here and there, I would like to recall two things: in any case, we must first distribute if we want people to produce, because the workers live only from their wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u30	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u31	Only Mr. President Mélenchon has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u32	Then, if it is good to produce, we must also avoid taking the riches of others. This sentence does not mean anything! This call to order is absolutely unbearable. Mrs Kramp-Karrenbaueur also tells us that "Communityisation of debts, the Europeanisation of social protection systems and the minimum wage would be the wrong way. No one has proposed an identical minimum wage for the whole of Europe. What has been proposed is a minimum wage in each country, which would already be a step forward, as would criteria for achieving social convergence on a more or less predictable horizon, along the lines of the criteria for economic convergence. To deny the minimum wage with one word is to announce that Europe renounces all social ambition, as was the case with the adoption of the so-called European Pillar of Social Rights, which is a step backwards from the previous Charter. We believe that the Europeanisation of social protection systems would be a good thing if it were done from the top. Ladies and gentlemen, the dominant party of the right-wing coalition and the SPD in Germany has just announced that there will never be any harmonisation, neither social nor fiscal, since such harmonisation is challenged by the person who is approached to lead this great neighbour and friend country tomorrow. I look at the rest, in particular, how we intend to "preserve Creation", as Mrs Kramp-Karrenbauer tells us, because we do not have an opinion on an event as unlikely as Creation itself. On the other hand, we have one on the Europe of protection of the environment and nature: we want immediately to stop the use of pesticides. No one will make us forget that Monsanto has become Bayer's property: we would have liked to read something about it in the reminder to order addressed to us. In the same way, I do not believe that we have to fight against those who distort competition by means of protectionist measures or State monopolies, because competition is not a good thing in all areas, especially where there is a monopoly: we do not see why there should be strong competition. On the contrary, we are in favour of protectionist measures, particularly in the field of the environment. It is therefore not necessary to "a negotiated European climate protection pact", as the CDU president claims, because survival is not being negotiated! It is time, on the contrary, to agree on measures that are necessary to the particular interests as they defend the general interest. On the other hand, I do not believe that Europe can be seen as a power guaranteeing security and peace, because we would build a European carrier. If peace were to hold on to a carrier, we would already know, since we have one ourselves – perhaps one day a second! – and that, moreover, the sixth North American fleet is already in the Mediterranean Sea with its forty ships. We have nothing to do with such a carrier, of which no one else would know who would command it! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the LR group]] Finally, some proposals are unacceptable to a Frenchman. I want to say it firmly: the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg is not a whim! It's a lesson and a symbol of history. It is in Strasbourg because Strasbourg embodies a history, something greater than each of us: that is why we cannot consider abolishing the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u34	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u35	[[MM. Eric Coquerel applauds]] I would add, since we are talking about siege, that he is still curious, after the Franco-German agreement of Aix-la-Chapelle, in which we French accepted that the Germans should have a seat on the Security Council – one wonders why: it would be more urgent to see Indians or Latin Americans, who do not currently sit on it! –, let us be returned, in this rostrum, not to a German seat but to a seat for Europe, which means that we should abandon ours! It's not about it! This will never be the case because there will always be, I am sure, a patriotic majority here who will remember why there is a French seat on the UN Security Council and why it is legitimate for it to exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u37	[[Smiles and protests]] In conclusion, I would like to stress how deplorable this atmosphere is. I warn you: it is not in any way a question of expressing a feeling hostile to the German people, far from it! How many common traits do we have with him, in literature, in music? Is there any other listening music than German? We have the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u38	What about Ravel?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u39	Berlioz?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u40	Debussy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u41	Only Mr. Mélenchon has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u42	You have to give our friends reason to be happy to be here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u43	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u44	You can see what makes you react: music! I have said that we cannot take a position on an event as unlikely as Creation. I do not agree with Mrs Kramp-Karrenbauer, and I think I am not the only one, when she says that the cohesion of our societies is made more heterogeneous by immigration. We do not believe it, we French, which have as its motto "freedom, equality, fraternity", and do not refer to any Volksgeist, which does not exist in France. France exists by its political status: this is the reason why the State does not, as it proposes, have to train its own imams and teachers, in the spirit of Nathan the Wise. Since the publication of this work in 1779, we have for our part made the Revolution of 1789, which made the Enlightenment dominant. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Dear German friends, I hope that the humanist vocation of my message will pass to you. To all of you, colleagues, I ask you to pay close attention to what is being said and what is being done. We are all ardent Europeans: we cannot accept calls to order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u45	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr.President Mélenchon: we heard the music and the lyrics! Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen in France and Germany, I shall begin by referring to the difficulties in adopting this motion for a resolution by our two assemblies. The new postponement by the Bundestag is not linked to agenda issues: it is due to deep disagreements between its President and part of its parliamentary majority, refusing that the deliberations of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly can be adopted by alliances of circumstance without a majority of its German members. This reluctance affects an essential part of the agreement: that of voting. The demand for a veto speaks volumes about the desire for a balanced parliamentary relationship. You therefore ask us to express ourselves on a text which may still be subject to amendment by the Bundestag. At a time when Europe is being crossed by a nationalist and xenophobic wave, I will put this intervention under the seal of friendship of the French and German peoples, so dear to Jaurès, Rosa Luxembourg and Karl Liebknecht. Our common history teaches us that fear and rejection of the other leads to a dead end, which can take up to the hideous form of war. In this context, Franco-German solidarity and European solidarity must be guided more than ever by the search for the interests of sovereign peoples. It implies cooperation that has not been swallowed in the past, in particular against global warming, against desertification and soil destruction or for satisfying the food needs of the inhabitants. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The fact that these essential issues are absent from the text is the mark of a fossilized thought in the old world. This text does not offer a vision for the future of a humanity in search of hope that could be based on a solid Franco-German relationship, as Victor Hugo already wished in 1842. If we agree that solidarity requires inter-State and inter-parliamentary cooperation, the text before us reduces it to satisfying the particular interests of economic operators and other banking and financial actors. It is the interests of the peoples that should have taken precedence! Humans must prevail over capital, which destroys man and nature, as the great German Karl Marx reminded us, whose thought continues to enlighten us. You propose that we approve the common working framework set out in the draft parliamentary agreement of 8 October 2018, with the objective of strengthening cooperation between our Assembly and the Bundestag by creating a Franco-German parliamentary assembly, essentially to ensure the application of the Treaties, in particular the implementation of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle of 22 January 2019. This new bilateral treaty, which has been concluded on the bluff and in opacity, is a fine illustration of the leadership's distrust of their own people. What a difference with General de Gaulle, who signed the Treaty of Elysée with Chancellor Adenauer on 22 January 1963, as the result of lengthy discussions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u47	It's not Gaul who wants to!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u48	However, we do not give in to fakenews or nationalist fantasies: contrary to what has been said, the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle does not provide for France to agree to surrender both Alsace and Lorraine to Germany and its seat on the Security Council to the European Union! However, this treaty poses a danger to our national sovereignty in politically sensitive areas, such as defence or internal security. However, behind the objective of establishing a common position within the European Union, there is an alignment with Mrs Merkel's will to power Germany, apart from any geopolitical vision to build a world of peace and a balanced European whole. "Limiting, enclosing, unbalanced", in the words of an academic on the Franco-German couple, this treaty is more a subordination agreement than a cooperation treaty. In this regard, according to an insistent rumour in Germany, an undisclosed document would allow German weapons to be smuggled on French soil to be sold to countries in war that violate human rights. I say that such an eventuality would be experienced by the German people as a betrayal of their ethical choice on the trade in weapons of war. As for the prospect of a common defence council, it directly raises the question of our place in NATO and our national independence, including in the area of our nuclear deterrence strategy. In addition, the President of the Republic, in catimini, called on France for Germany's admission to the UN Security Council as a sixth permanent member with the right of veto. Such an option is illegitimate. The decision-making body of the United Nations is intended to represent the international community in its great diversity. The admission of Germany would only strengthen the Security Council's representativeness deficit. On the contrary, our diplomatic priority must be for the United Nations to be more the preferred forum for multilateral dialogue. Our criticism is of the same nature, with regard to the establishment of an annual dialogue on international development policy. Taking the African continent as a target, the approach is more a matter of neocolonial drift, driven by security obsession, than of a policy of international solidarity enshrined in an effective strategy of co-development. Africa is not doomed to remain the playing field of the major public and private powers, reducing the continent to a megamarket whose natural and human resources are destined to be exploited in the context of a merciless globalized economic war. It is, of course, from this perspective that Germany is trying to establish itself, relying on the vector of French cooperation in Africa. The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle is also a treaty on cross-border cooperation to facilitate cooperation between the French and German regions at the common borders, Alsace and Lorraine and the Länder on the other side of the Rhine. The objective is to facilitate free trade in the form of joint regional projects in areas such as the economy, transport and sustainable development. These cross-border regions could benefit from specific laws which, by leaving them out of national legislation, would allow particular interests to prevail. This approach is part of the construction of a Europe of regions to the detriment of the Europe of sovereign States and nations. Not only is the interparliamentary agreement corsected by its general framework, but it hides many subjects. It could have made proposals on crucial issues of the moment and on the specific and essential role that parliamentarians of both countries should play, including on global warming and the issue of migration. If we want to save European integration, if we are to restore its credibility, it is imperative to define a European project worthy of that name, in a multilateral vision of relations between States. If France and Germany can take the initiative, it is by building, with and for the citizens, an ambitious project involving all the peoples of Europe, a project likely to give a new breath and a new meaning to Europe – a Europe to be invented, democratic, social and ecological. We believe in a social Europe that would be enshrined in a genuine European social treaty, bearing the values and protective standards of our workers, the foundation of a Europe of solidarity and freedom from the tutelage of financial markets, the dogmas of liberalism and budgetary austerity. Alone – I say well – alone – such a road map is likely to renew the Franco-German relationship, which cannot be limited to trying to revive the bilateral and dominating relationship of an old couple at breath. It must be opened, on the contrary, to the partners of the European Union and even, more broadly, from the Atlantic to the Urals, as General de Gaulle proclaimed. The cooperation mechanism proposed to us is not up to the ambitions that we must have for the friendship and cooperation of all the peoples of Europe. While he feeds on the indescribable historical importance of the Franco-German couple, he remains, however, a prisoner of an exclusive and dominating face-to-face around a neoliberal vision of the world. Let us instead open the doors of the future in a wider context. Otherwise, we will create a new Franco-German machin, which will have no more echo in our two peoples than it has in the press on both sides of the Rhine. He will know the fate of the councils of the ministers of the Blaesheim process, which was launched seventeen years ago, that of the Franco-German High Cultural Council, and indeed that of the Franco-German brigade, an embryo of the almost dead European army, and I pass it! Finally, only a few selfish interests will find their way into it. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] That is why we have decided to abstain. "No blind optimism or paralysing pessimism": I will add, to these words of Jaurès, the lucidity to summarize the position of the group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u49	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen in Germany and in France, we have been able to see how difficult it is to be a force for proposals than to be against: that is why I would like to welcome the initiative of my colleagues, who are bringing us together today, and to tell them that we are here to make this project live. I grew up in western France in the eighties. Living far from our common border, I was not predestined to speak in the rostrum today. However, I have benefited from the political will to open up colleges and lycées on Europe and the world, which is reflected in the creation of European classes. I was struck by learning about the abolition of these European classes as part of the reform of the college that came into force in the 2016 school year. What an insult to the taste of effort and to the knowledge of our respective stories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u51	That's a mistake, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u52	What a hindrance to the European project! Knowing what I owe to the school of the Republic, I would like to congratulate all those who have worked to restore the European classes, beginning with the Minister of National Education, Mr Jean-Michel Blanquer. I would also like to stress the ambition of Franco-German cooperation in the field of German language learning. Knowledge of the other is a prerequisite. I hold the same speech to all the young people I meet: mastering foreign languages is useful throughout life and no prejudice can call into question such competence. It was precisely thanks to my mastery of German that I had the honour of commanding one of the binational companies of the Franco-German brigade. Over the past four years, I've been able to measure everything that brings us together. "Einigkeit, Recht und Freiheit" are admirably united with our republican motto: "freedom, equality, fraternity". It is because we have the same values to defend that a European defence makes sense. The Franco-German brigade was born of a political ambition, which we are continuing today. It is she, and she alone, who can turn words into deeds. I was able to deplore, when I was in command, that the French soldiers under my command were sent to Guyana to fight against gold plating, rather than being deployed alongside their German comrades in Kosovo, even though France was present there. The soldiers of the Franco-German brigade, however, expect only joint deployments. They're trained, they're ready for it. It is we politicians who are accountable for the effectiveness of the tools we are putting in place. The Treaty of Aachen stipulates that the two States undertake to strengthen cooperation between their armed forces with a view to establishing a common culture and carrying out joint deployments. We Members will have a heavy responsibility to bring this treaty to life. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which I belong, is making every effort, under the chairmanship of Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, to promote parliamentary diplomacy. At every interparliamentary conference on foreign security and defence policy, which takes place every six months in the capital of the country that holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union, I can see how strong our responsibility as Members is and how much our meetings tend to bring our ideas together and to make our representative democracies live. In the eyes of many of our fellow citizens, Europe lacks a course, a capacity to act. Many of them are concerned about our union in an increasingly unstable international environment. Threat of strength and risk of weakness are now cumulating dramatically. I am confident that our initiative is making a significant contribution to our European project, in a context where our responsibility is immense. Today, we are reinvigorating the dialogue between our two countries, building bonds of trust between the deputies of our two assemblies. We have the strength to propose. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I strongly encourage you to vote in favour of this initiative, of which we can be very proud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u53	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, liebe deutsche Kolleginnen und liebe deutsche Kollegen aus dem Bundestag, seien Sie hierzlichwillkomme n(Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group. - Long protests on the benches of the LR group.) Welcome!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u55	Not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u56	This is unacceptable! Why not in Arabic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u57	French is the language of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u58	We could articulate today's discussion around the many historical facts that make the Franco-German relationship a passionate succession of events deeply rooted in our memories, even if some events of past weeks question us. We could comment on the rostrum of the President of the CDU, of whom Mr. Mélenchon has perfect control over the pronunciation of the name, but that is not the subject. Rather, let us focus on the topicality and future of a process that has been the guarantor of peace between our two peoples for more than seven decades alone. A little more than a year ago, on 22 January 2018, the National Assembly and the Bundestag voted on the same day, in the same words, a historic joint resolution, in which the two assemblies entrusted to a trans-party working group, composed of nine German deputies and nine French deputies, a twofold mission: to instruct our respective governments to draw up a new Franco-German friendship treaty, while affirming that the proximity of our two nations was also, and above all, the affair of our two national representations; work to strengthen the role of parliaments in the major area of Franco-German cooperation as an engine for European integration and construction. Each political family was involved in the work of the Franco-German working group. Everyone was able to express themselves and inspire the agreement we are discussing this afternoon: the whole working group can be proud of the mission accomplished. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On 22 January, President Emmanuel Macron and Chancellor Angela Merkel signed the Franco-German Treaty of Friendship and Integration of Aix-la-Chapelle. The latter takes up the vast majority of the suggestions made over the past year by the eighteen Members of the Franco-German working group, under the benevolent leadership of our two Presidents, Wolfgang Schäuble and Richard Ferrand, whom we would like to pay special tribute to their involvement and unwavering support. Without wishing to anticipate the discussion that will be held shortly in our Assembly, I will stress that this treaty is a formidable toolbox from which everyone – civil society, professional, economic and political circles – can use, in the interest of our relations, to improve the daily lives of our compatriots. Let us not squander our pleasure when we read in the preamble that national representations will have their full role to play in the future. The second task assigned to the working group is extended by the resolution we are considering. The parliamentary agreement it supports will undoubtedly enter into great history. For the first time ever, two national parliaments have agreed to form a joint, trans-party and mirrored assembly of each of our two chambers. Fifty German and fifty French deputies will sit together, at least twice a year, to deliberate on joint proposals to be submitted to the National Assembly and the Bundestag. With regard to the area of competence of this new assembly, parliamentarians wish, first of all, to affirm their willingness to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the two treaties which bind our two countries: the Treaty of Elysée and the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. We want to be able to propose and evaluate the concrete projects that will result from it. Let me mention a few of them: the common citizen's fund, the cross-border cooperation committee or the Franco-German Council of Economic Experts. Secondly, the Franco-German Assembly invites the two governments to provide it with early and comprehensive information, in order to enable it to follow up on the Franco-German Council of Ministers and the activities of the Franco-German Defence and Security Council. The new Assembly will also follow up international and European affairs of common interest, in order to formulate joint proposals on issues relevant to the Franco-German relationship with a view to bringing our rights together. The overall objective is to bring France and Germany closer together by facilitating the cooperation of our two major countries in all areas of everyday life. The resolution that we are proposing to adopt is not intended to create an exclusive couple, who are on top of them in the face of adversity: it is that of Europeans who believe that the construction of the European home today requires the improvement of the daily lives of its inhabitants; Convinced that together we are stronger in the international concert; convinced of the need for stronger European integration as a guarantee of the progress of humanity; convinced that the success of the European project is the sine qua non for lasting peace for future generations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Long live Franco-German cooperation within a Europe of peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u59	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u60	It is, of course, a pleasure and an honour to welcome our German friends from the Bundestag, whose delegation is led by our friend Andreas Jung, on the day we consider this motion for a resolution on Franco-German parliamentary cooperation. The Republican Group, which contributed to the drafting of this parliamentary agreement from the outset, will of course vote for it, because it is not only in line with the history of our political family, but also with our deep convictions, involving the dual interests of the European Union and our nations. It is in keeping with the history of our political family because, since 1963, General de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer laid the foundations for this cooperation with the Treaty of Elysée, a major success of the post-war period, which sealed the reconciliation of our countries. Reconciliation, partnership, cooperation, friendship between our two peoples and our two nations: all this is, of course, in keeping with our convictions. If, in 1963, it was to guarantee peace, in 2019, we must go much further, towards what was called the "four Es": economy, environment – sustainable development, biodiversity, climate –, foreign policy – defence, security –, education – culture, research. A single country has nothing to do with health, the environment or safety. What can he do to address the challenges of HIV, global warming or terrorism? So what does this Franco-German cooperation agreement contain? Between us, classical, little revolutionary points: twinning, student mobility, mutual language learning, all existed with bilingual classes. I would like to point out that unfortunately only 15% of French pupils learn German, the language of the neighbouring nation, compared with an average of 23% in Europe. But we only defend what we love, and we love what we know. It is therefore preferable to know our neighbour's language a little better, which is valid for both sides of the Rhine. Classic, again, when one wants even more convergence – economic, social, fiscal, it seemed to me to hear on many occasions and on many benches. Convergence is not a big word, especially when, on the one hand, Germany has a trade surplus of 200 billion and, on the other hand, France's deficit is 60 billion. Who must be afraid of this convergence, I ask you?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u61	And who gives lessons to everyone?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u62	Convergence is also needed in the field of defence. After three deadly wars between our two countries – millions of both civilian and military deaths in just under a century –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u63	Not between our two countries: they have invaded us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u64	... let us measure the progress made, when France affirms that, if Germany is attacked, it will intervene, and that Germany affirms that it will intervene if France is attacked! Today, we face the same risks, including terrorists, as we saw at the Christmas markets in Strasbourg and Berlin. Our military budgets, which are around 40 billion, are almost identical – however, on the one hand there are seventeen different types of tanks against, on the other hand, a single American tank; the same is true for ships. There is still a need for convergence in the research sector. I recall that, in the field of artificial intelligence, 48% of investment is Chinese – China invests five to ten times more than all European countries combined! – and 38% American. What remains for France and Germany alone? Not much. After these classic proposals, two innovative, if not new, proposals. First of all, cross-border cooperation, which places the citizen at the heart of the European project, has been recalled: it is a matter of common sense! The aim is to operate crèches, health homes, transport networks and learning centres on each side of the Rhine. Next, the creation of this Franco-German parliamentary assembly, composed of fifty French deputies and fifty German deputies, to monitor the implementation of these treaties...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u65	We must conclude....
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u66	... and propose resolutions to the National Assembly and the Bundestag. Let us reassure ourselves: there will be no additional Members of Parliament, no additional remuneration, but a strong, historic symbol of friendship between our two peoples! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, it seems to me important to repeat that there is no Europe without nations. We love our nations, France, Germany, and we love Europe, because they are inseparable! That is why we will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u67	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u68	[[Mr. Florian Bachelier applauds]] First of all, I would like to welcome and thank not only our fellow German Members, who are in the forum of the House and who have participated in the drafting of this agreement, but also the chairpersons of committees and administrators of the Bundestag and the National Assembly for their constant work and the great competence they have shown. Franco-German cooperation has been a major issue in European integration from the outset. This is the spirit of Robert Schuman's statement on 9 May 1950, stating that "the action undertaken must primarily affect France and Germany. » Since then, Franco-German cooperation has continued to strengthen, but I do not know what exclusions. Today it is expressed more modestly in another register, which is of great interest to us: that of the necessary association of parliamentarians. We must write this new page in a tense and serious context, of doubt about Europe, of doubt about our policies, of doubt about our values, which are not strong enough and clearly expressed in a unitary way by the executive powers. It is within the framework of the Elysée Treaty that our Franco-German working group was mandated to prepare this parliamentary agreement. It has done so on the legal basis of Article 34(1) of the Constitution, a legal vector that we consider appropriate to have retained. I will make three observations. First of all, the primary objective of this agreement is to create a Franco-German parliamentary assembly and thus institutionalise links, not only to meet cross-border needs, but also to reflect together on the issues that arise in our two countries and in Europe. Is this objective, which does not exclude anyone, a source of hope for us, the French Members, at a time when anti-parliamentarianism is going well? This act of cooperation comes at a time when we are many, here, to fight the populist discourses that tend to discredit our work and, as well, to question the role of the French MP of 2017, the new MP for the non-cumulation of mandates, on his local and national role, in the eyes of a very powerful executive and who, as a result of the Constitution, is naturally less aware of the aspirations of the population. In order to be at the rendezvous of this modernity and to make it live, we must give a rhythm to this interparliamentary work in our committees. The Committee on Laws, to which I belong and which I welcome the Chair, is a framework for progress in this area. Secondly, the objective of the agreement, as we have said, is to help outline common solutions to the differences in various areas which lead to the weakening of the whole of Europe. A wide-ranging programme, including environmental issues, migration issues, social protection issues, the issue of posted workers, tax harmonization and the taxation of digital giants. Let us contribute to political clarity, which we must also demand from our leaders who, in the European Council, must talk to each other and finally, with courage, define the basis of our common values! The third observation is that this agreement is intended to help bring French and German rights closer together. Let us be careful on this point, which we must address by reflecting on the law, that is to say, by finally putting the requirement of legistice understood as the science of the law. Legislative activity — the product of our work — must be recognized and taught in law schools and perhaps even more upstream. Branch of constitutional law or philosophy – one is not exclusive to the other – it must focus on the manufacture of the law, i.e. the procedures, the application of the law, the nature and the purpose of the laws. It also implies the emergence of a government law, finally organizing the drafting of laws and telling us more about it in our respective administrations. This last orientation is pragmatic and eminently political, since it aims to entrust to other actors than ourselves – undoubtedly academics – the task of evaluating our common legislative work and to accompany us in this shared reflection. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As Richard Ferrand and his German counterpart Wolfgang Schäuble have said: "A hundred years after the First World War, the assemblies of France and Germany show how fruitful the political friendship of two former enemy nations can be." This statement, which I welcome, deserves to be confirmed by our tireless efforts to work together in institutions as fundamental to our democracies as the Bundestag and the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u69	Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u70	Mr. President, Madam... the... the Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u71	The minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u72	It is true that the French Academy now obliges us to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u73	The Official Journal, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u74	Thank you, Mr President, for reminding us that the language of the Republic is French. I was about to greet our German hosts in their language but I was delighted because, coming from your servant, it would necessarily be misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u75	Achtung!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u76	So little! But you think in German.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u77	I therefore stick to the language of the Republic. Why this textual submission? Frankly, I wonder: why the creation of a Franco-German parliamentary assembly, composed of fifty French Members and fifty German Members who will meet in France or Germany? It is true that travel forms the youth of Europe, but why all this, above all, why create this loneliness for two? Where's the point of a two-way loneliness that means a two-way power? What happens to the Senate? What happens to the other countries of the European Union? In the meantime, the Standing Committees of both Assemblies will hold joint meetings. Again, what happens to the other member countries? Where is European cohesion under the terms of this text? Where is the good European understanding between the peoples? Where is equality between the peoples who build Europe? Where is the sharing between the peoples who participate in the European Union? It is felt that other member countries are left at the door.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u78	Franco-German cooperation has always existed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u79	What's the point? Why? What does this loneliness of two mean, which means a power of two? Objectively, I do not see the interest, nor do I see the usefulness of this Article 14 of the Agreement, it is true, often misinterpreted, that I confess it, but which nevertheless makes it possible to derogate from the rules of national law, and which concerns Alsace-Moselle. I do not want any derogation from the rules of national law! I do not see which republican could accept the principle that it would be possible, at some point, to derogate from the rules of national law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u80	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u81	Similarly – I ask the new President of the CDU to apologise – there is no question, even under Article 6, of assigning our seat to the UN Security Council, which represents so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u82	Fantasy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u83	Let's stop spreading false rumors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u84	It means so many fights! We don't want to give it up, we don't want to share it! They don't give us anything in return! There's no counterpart! We want to keep this seat that we conquered! [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Nor is there any question of ceding, whether it pleases or not, to the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg. As a speaker with whom I share a few words, but not necessarily all the ideas, Strasbourg is too much history for us! Have you forgotten, Gaullists, Leclerc's oath? Do I have to call you back? "We swear to lay down our arms only on the day when our colours, our beautiful colours, will float on Strasbourg Cathedral. And you would agree to bring down the flag? No! No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u85	Manipulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u86	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] I believe in Europe, I dream of it, as Malraux dreamed of it, and you may be screaming, your screams will not make a truth. Your embarrassment and embarrassment say a lot. Don't give up! It is not in submission that we can rebuild our Europe, but by denouncing the abuses of finance, bank, money, cartels. We are entitled to another Europe: Europe of the dream of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u87	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u88	The role of national representation is to look away to prevent difficulties and prepare for the future. When I look to Europe, to this unique construction that has brought peace to our continent for more than seventy years, I see a black dot appearing that seems to be gradually taking the form of a black swan, that is to say, a highly unlikely event that is happening. This black swan, ladies and gentlemen, could be the deconstruction of the European Union. It is our responsibility to anticipate and prevent the unexpected. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group supports this motion for a resolution on Franco-German parliamentary cooperation. With this strengthening of relations between our two countries, we will be able to work towards a more united, prosperous, peaceful and forward-looking Europe. Together with the Members of my group, we live on a daily basis the values of Europe and measure the benefits of its existence to our territories. They have enabled us to ensure harmony between the peoples of Europe, supported in this by the formidable engine of Franco-German friendship – I welcome the Members of the Bundestag here. As we have just celebrated the centenary of the end of the First World War, let us recall Aristide Briand, this pilgrim of peace, who proposed to the League of Nations the first United States project of Europe. This great French politician had well understood the whole stakes for our continent of Franco-German rapprochement, in order to guarantee peace. In 1926, German nationalist Gustav Stresemann and himself were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of their efforts to restore peace in Europe. Of course, history did not immediately follow the path laid down by these two great Europeans. Nationalism has brought about a new and extremely deadly global conflict. Today, national selfishness is becoming sharper again, the temptation to retreat and to each one for himself is becoming stronger and stronger. European integration, and with it the European idea, is at a crossroads. That is why we must constantly be vigilant and act. We must not believe that everything is achieved. History has shown us, the news shows us: peacekeeping cannot be content with declarations of good intentions. Europe cannot be abandoned to a new rise in nationalism, which gangens several European states and reverses the rule of law within the European Union itself. In Hungary, Poland and now in Bulgaria, some political leaders are testing these nauseous values, which will be the death of the European edifice if we do nothing. Let us keep in mind these verses of Eschyle: "And if you are caught in the inextricable net of evil, it will not be by a sudden and secret blow, but by your foolishness. » Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of these challenges, the Franco-German axis is the backbone of European integration and must continue to be so. Franco-German parliamentary cooperation is a means of resuming the offensive and instilling a new European dynamic. The Parliamentary Cooperation Agreement sets up a Franco-German assembly, i.e. the legislative body of the Council of Ministers established by the Elysée Treaty. This is not a merger of our two assemblies or an abandonment of sovereignty, but a strengthened cooperation which is important from a symbolic and practical point of view. This symbol will awaken a European consciousness both in France and in Germany and throughout Europe. By adopting this motion for a resolution, let us be the instigators of a European spring that will start the revival of political Europe. This is all the more important as we are just a few days away from the announced divorce with the United Kingdom. This institutional rapprochement with Germany sends the message of our faith in Europe not only to the peoples of Europe, but also to the international scene. This "unidentified political object", according to Jacques Delors' famous formula, is viscerally part of us: we thus reaffirm our refusal to turn away from it, to give up in the face of its dysfunctions and to slam the door. When the house burns, honor and responsibility dictates us not to look elsewhere, but rather to show tenacity and courage. We owe it to our fellow citizens, we owe it to all those who fought for peace in Europe. No, the European ideal is not dead! France and Germany will continue to be influential players that will promote common European values and objectives. They will help shape the Europe of the 21st century, a Europe that is fairer, more protective, more dynamic, more competitive and more growth-promoting. That is the signal we need to make for the future European elections. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary agreement, which continues the cooperation movement of the Executives initiated in 1963 with the Treaty of Elysée, and recently renewed, also creates a dynamic essential to the vitality of our two countries. Let me take this moment to congratulate the nine French and German Members for the work they have done to reach this draft agreement. It illustrates the ability of the various political groups in our two countries to move forward together to develop a project of common interest. This must be an example for each of the national representations, at a time when our fellow citizens are asking us to go beyond the political divides in order to better work for the general interest. This is what we practice in the Libertés et territoires group, and it is in this spirit that my colleague Jean-Michel Clément, who will represent our group in the future Franco-German assembly, will work. A new form of Franco-German cooperation will be possible because our two assemblies will work more closely, and upstream, to adopt joint decisions that are more coherent, closer to the realities of our two States and our territories. The meetings, the debates between our two assemblies and the decisions that will result must not only inspire Europe, but also strengthen social and territorial cohesion, increase competitiveness and really improve the quality of life of our citizens. We need to think of a new form of action for greater efficiency. That is the whole objective of this enhanced cooperation, which will ensure greater convergence of our national rights, in particular to promote fiscal and social harmonisation, while respecting the identities of each individual. The rejection of Europe by a number of our fellow citizens is partly linked to legal absurdities, administrative complexities or technical malfunctions. Combining our parliamentary activities, from work in committee, will offer the best way to transpose European directives in the same way, without overtransposing, as is all too often the case in France. [[Applause on certain benches in the LT, LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is because we will intensify Franco-German cohesion that we will promote European cohesion and ensure that it is recast. It is because Franco-German friendship has been a vector of peace and progress for more than seven decades that the Libertés et territoires Group will vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u89	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Bundestag, the resolution before you today is a new step towards a stronger partnership between France and Germany. The agreement between the National Assembly and the Bundestag to strengthen their cooperation is fully in line with the momentum desired by our two governments to tackle together the challenges facing our two countries, as well as the European Union. As in 1963 when the Elysée Treaty was concluded, we made a bold and courageous choice. In 1963, the audacity was to reach out to the enemy of a century. The courage in 2019 – as so many voices rise to criticize an imperfect European construction, it is certain, but more necessary than ever – is to place the Franco-German engine where it must be, that is, at the heart of the European recovery project. That is the whole meaning of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. Yes, parliamentary cooperation can and must contribute to the close ties that the two States and the two peoples have forged since the beginning of the European adventure. Creation of the Council of Europe seventy years ago; creation of the European Coal and Steel Community in 1951; signature of the Treaty of Rome establishing the European Economic Community in 1957 and until the Treaty of Lisbon: France and Germany have always been at the meeting. As we all know, there would never have been a European construction without reconciliation and Franco-German friendship. Similarly, there can be no large-scale Franco-German project without a European perspective. A few weeks after the signing of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, which will soon be subject to ratification, you are today implementing the decision to strengthen the dialogue between the representatives of the two nations, which you took on 22 January 2018. I congratulate you on this promise, and wish to express here my best wishes for the success of this initiative. I would also like to thank in particular its promoters, the group of nine Members who, together with their German colleagues, have prepared this unprecedented step in bilateral relations, setting up an institutional twinning between the Palais-Bourbon and the Bundestag. I welcome the political and practical significance of this unprecedented rapprochement and the work planned for the future Franco-German parliamentary assembly. First of all, this parliamentary mission par excellence: the monitoring and control of executive action. The future Franco-German parliamentary assembly will thus follow the councils of the Franco-German ministers who are somewhat the counterpart, for the executive, of the Franco-German parliamentary assembly for the legislative. It will be informed of the progress of the decisions taken, it will have a particular responsibility to ensure the implementation of the Elysée and Aachen Treaties, including the work of the Franco-German Defence and Security Council, of crucial importance for matters on which we must intensify our bilateral dialogue. The new Assembly will also be able to make proposals to promote the convergence of our respective rights. I stress the importance of this point: the proposals of the new House in this area are very much expected. It is crucial, for example, that the transposition of European directives into our respective national laws be harmonised so as to bring our legal frameworks closer together. This will not prevent us from diverging each time we make different political choices. France will continue to go beyond European obligations when it considers it necessary to do so...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u91	Additional charges!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u92	She's taking the lead in her European campaign!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...for example to better protect consumers and their health – the neutral package, for example – or their social rights: ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that you would not want to reduce maternity leave to the duration recommended by the European directive. But to diverge must be a political choice and not the rather lazy result of different administrative habits on both sides of the Rhine. Harmonising our legal frameworks whenever possible is essential for the development of our businesses, and this is more broadly a demand from all actors in cross-border cooperation. This agreement also marks an intensification of dialogue between your parliamentary committees and your respective administrations. These exchanges of information and analysis, cross-participation in joint meetings or meetings, as well as the mobility of parliamentary staff, will mark this increased involvement in the mechanisms of Franco-German cooperation. I know how important this point is, quite rightly, for the chairman of your Committee on European Affairs, Mrs Sabine Thillaye, who has made a strong commitment to the development of exchanges in this area. Finally, joint sessions of the National Assembly and the Bundestag are planned, thus consolidating a practice inaugurated on the fortieth anniversary of the Elysée Treaty in 2003. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly will therefore be a permanent link between the Bundestag and the National Assembly, a constant incentive to get to know each other better and to work together. The human bet seems to me decisive in the choices you have made, beyond the functional and administrative measures. Direct meetings, confrontations between individual experiences, the search for positive compromises to solve concrete problems, all this will be facilitated by these different mechanisms. This level of parliamentary cooperation is unprecedented. I have referred to the Treaty of Elysée and the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, which completes it. As members of the working group wished, the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle explicitly mentions parliamentary cooperation and the agreement between the National Assembly and the Bundestag. The creation of the new Franco-German assembly, like the other measures included in your resolution, is the legislative part of it, in order to develop the direct inclusion of our peoples in Franco-German cooperation. [[Applause on all benches]] Your discussions with your German counterparts will be important, both in implementing the decisions of the Treaty of Aachen and in harmonising legislative work. They will bring out a Franco-German parliamentary culture that will irrigate our institutional systems, whose differences, I readily admit, sometimes require, in order to be overcome, the deployment of a consummated diplomatic art. I would like to repeat, however, that if I continue to deploy this diplomatic art, I will put two limits on it. No, we will not share our seat as a permanent member of the UN Security Council, either with Germany or with any other State. No, there is no question of abandoning the seat of the European Parliament. Strasbourg is the capital of democracy and human rights in Europe. It's his honor and our pride.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u94	On the other hand, we could leave the ENA to Germany without problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u95	With my German counterpart, Michael Roth, I am pleased to respond positively to the invitation to take part in the first meeting of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly on 25 March. We will have the opportunity to present the current state of affairs in order to translate into practice the provisions of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle and the list of fifteen priority projects adopted when it was signed. France and Germany have special responsibilities in the light of our tragic history, not only for our two peoples, but also for the international community as a whole, for Franco-German reconciliation continues to inspire former opponents all over the world who seek the path of lasting peace. I repeat this with force and conviction: your resolution and this Treaty reflect a new impetus in Franco-German cooperation and bring our two countries closer together in the service of European integration. This new Franco-German impetus is all the more necessary today as Europe is experiencing a period of uncertainty and attacks from outside and inside. The tensions that cross our continent and the challenges that we face are immense. Brexit itself is a major uncertainty, while the planned date for the UK's exit on 29 March is now very close. The President of the Republic recalled that Europe is at a crossroads. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Germany and France must therefore once again assume their historic and democratic responsibilities in order to strengthen their cooperation and preserve the European Union's peace project. You are making a powerful contribution to this, thanks to the spirit of permanent consultation that this parliamentary agreement reinforces. Thank you. By joining forces, we will meet these challenges together, at the service of our citizens and for Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u96	I put to the vote the motion for a resolution that I have presented to you with Presidents Gilles Le Gendre, Christian Jacob, Patrick Mignola, Valérie Rabault, Jean-Christophe Lagarde and Philippe Vigier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u97	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u98	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u99	The next item is the debate, after the accelerated procedure has begun, on the draft law adopted by the Senate establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories (No. 1393, 1662, 1623, 1621) and on the proposal for an organic law, adopted by the Senate, on the appointment of the Director General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories (No. 1394, 1622, 1620). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u100	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u101	I am very pleased that we will finally be able to debate in public session the proposal for a law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, together with the proposal for an organic law on the appointment of its Director General, after the examination in committee of these texts at the beginning of February. This is an essential step forward for the territories and their elected representatives, but also for the state, and I would like to welcome the strong investment of Members in these two texts: it reflects your interest in it. I would also like to ask for further evidence of the large number of internal proceedings in your house that have taken up the bill for advice. In fact, this strong mobilization was also expressed in the Senate during the debates last fall, resulting in the adoption of both texts by a very large majority: 212 votes in favour, 13 against. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to point out that the creation of a National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories, announced by the President of the Republic in July 2017, is a response to the request made by representatives of local elected representatives – in particular by the Association of Mayors of France – who wanted a simplification of the landscape of state operators who intervene for the benefit of the territories. Moreover, several legislative initiatives, of parliamentary or governmental origin, in the National Assembly and in the Senate, have subsequently demonstrated a widely shared desire to give substance to the project since it was announced. These texts represent a new opportunity to achieve this, and the Government has naturally given them its full support since the beginning of the legislative process. However, I do not underestimate the fact that the creation of the ANC raises a number of questions, sometimes fears, but also, of course, a great deal of expectations. That is why I would like to dispel some misunderstandings and make a number of clarifications from the outset. The aim, with the creation of this agency, is indeed to transform in depth the way in which the State organizes its action and the support it provides to the territories and their projects. First of all, why create a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories? As parliamentarians and sometimes even local elected officials, you are fully aware of the difficulties faced by these elected officials, especially in the smallest communities and in the most fragile territories – urban or rural – when they want to make a local project happen, whether it involves revitalizing the city centre, urban renewal or any other matter. What is going on, indeed? First problem: a number of communities do not have in-house technical and financial capacity to design and implement their projects. The second problem is that when communities, or even prefects, seek the support of state services and operators, they are confronted with an administrative maquis that forces them to make, if I dare say so, the tour of the actors and to multiply the steps. Indeed, as we know, these actors intervene in an insufficiently coordinated way, sometimes according to a sectoral and individual approach insufficiently adapted to each territory. All this represents time and energy spent unnecessarily, while better readability and real coordination between services and operators would allow for more calm and faster progress to give substance to the projects developed by the territories. This lack of efficiency, the local elected representatives legitimately complain about it, and the prefects, who are also confronted with it – I would like to insist on it – regularly make their voices heard. That is why the Government, after listening to the elected representatives, is convinced of the need to create a tool for the coordination of State operators, a one-stop shop to which elected officials can turn to obtain assistance and support in order to accompany their projects. At the local level, the prefect of the department will be the territorial delegate of the agency. This is an essential point, and I would like to dwell on it for a few moments. Making the prefect the territorial delegate of the agency means in concrete terms that, when an elected official defends a project, he will turn to the prefect or sub-prefect, who, as the agency's territorial delegate, will mobilise the resources made available to him in the services of the State, but also, if necessary, those of the State operators such as ANRU – National Agency for Urban Renewal –, the ANAH – National Housing Agency – or the ADEME – Agency for the Environment and Energy Control – and I pass it on. It also means that there will be no "officiel" on the territories, if I may say, on the front page of which the words "National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories" would be inscribed. Indeed, it is the prefect who will be the agency's sole representative for the local elected project promoters. This allows me to link up with another recurring question: who are these local elected representatives, project promoters, to whose benefit the agency will intervene? This question calls for a simple answer: all elected officials, all communities. Indeed, the ANCT is intended to address all territories, whether they are from mainland France or overseas, whether they are communes, intercommunalities, departments, metropolises, regions and even territories that extend over different communities – several intercommunalities, several departments or several regions with a common project, for example. In this case, we hope that the intervention of the ANC will not be limited to the institutional territories – that is to say the territorial authorities – but to the territories carrying projects, whatever they may be, for example the countries or, for those of the latter which have already taken the new name, the PETRs, or the poles of territorial and rural balance. If all communities and elected representatives can apply to the ANC, it is obvious that the agency will prioritize its action in the most fragile territories, where the most resources are lacking to carry out projects,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u102	In the mountains!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u103	...where the needs for engineering, co-piloting and financial support are greatest, in order to provide them with tailor-made assistance. This differentiated policy, which takes account of the specificities of each territory in order to ensure its development, is at the heart of my action at the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion. For, as you and I know well, not all territories are equal in terms of resources – and I am not just talking about financial resources. Therefore, as I say to you, I want the state to be a priority alongside the most fragile territories in order to overcome the territorial divides of our country and to help carry out their projects. You certainly wonder about the nature of this tailor-made aid; I would also like to clarify a number of points. The ANCT will be able to provide both technical, engineering and financial support. Indeed, by coordinating the services and operators of the State, the Agency will be able to mobilise and, above all, unite their technical and financial resources. This technical and financial support will be complementary to that which local authorities or the private sector can themselves provide. On this point, which has been the subject of numerous questions in the Senate, and even here in committee, I would like to be precise: the agency's intervention will be very complementary and not competing with the technical and financial resources available to local authorities and their local agencies. Thus, this intervention will not be uniform: it will take place at the request of the elected representatives. Where there is no need, where local elected officials do not want the agency to intervene, the agency will not do so; where needs are felt, where the elected representatives wish the Agency's support to complement their possible resources, it will intervene. In this respect, the ANC will therefore make hand-sewn, starting from local wills and needs. This approach, I would like to say, will also be implemented by the Agency through the actions to which it will contribute through the public policies that the territories need. These could include urban renewal, core city action programming, mobile and digital coverage, health homes, mobility or ecological transition. The creation of the ANC is primarily a change of method: it allows us to emerge from a vertical logic, that of the prescribing state which arranges the territory on the basis of calls for projects, by creating distortions between the large communities, which have the technical capacity to respond to them, and the small ones, who do not possess them. The creation of the agency will put an end to this vertical and descending logic in order to replace it with a horizontal and ascending logic: on the basis of the needs and projects of the elected representatives of a territory, the agency will mobilise the technical and financial resources of the state as well as its operators to support these projects. Beyond these methodological questions, I know that the Agency's perimeter and governance issues, as well as the financial tools, have been questioned. In this regard, the Government is in favour of balancing the proposed law, i.e. the incorporation into the agency, as soon as the text is promulgated, of part of the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of Territories, or CGET, of the National Public Institution for the Development and Restructuring of Commercial and Handicrafted Spaces, or EPARECA, and of the Digital Agency. This is a pragmatic and strategic choice that will allow the ANC to be quickly operational to support the projects of the local authorities; On the contrary, maximum integration, including, for example, ANRU, ANAH, ADEME and CEREMA – the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, the Environment, Mobility and Planning – would have fed into long organic debates with a view to merging bodies with a wide variety of statutes, which would have harmed the Agency's work. The important thing, I believe, is not the structures, the action and the public policies that are being carried out. The governance of the Agency is another issue that will not fail to be debated. While the Government was in favour of the balances contained in the original text, the senators upset them to put the state in the minority within its own agency. However, while the Government strongly supports the fact that the representatives of the elected representatives have a large place on the agency's board of directors, this is not incompatible with the fact that the representatives of the State retain at least half of the seats on the board. Moreover, such a distribution does not appear to be inconsistent in that the ANCT will be a State agency composed of State agents and whose budget will be drawn up on the basis of State appropriations. I am pleased that the members of your Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning have been sensitive to these arguments and have agreed to return to the general scheme of the original bill; I thank them for that, and we are very sensitive to it. Beyond this, if I understand that there is a desire for a local declination of coordination, information or pilotage bodies, I have always expressed my support for flexibility: the provisions introduced in this area must not be a source of rigidity in the Agency's action. Therefore, if the information of the elected officials by the representative of the State appears to me to be legitimate and even essential, it should not go through legislative mechanisms aimed at describing all the modalities of operation of the information body at the local level, which obviously seems to me to be more of a circular. On this point, I have no doubt that the public debate will allow us to find a satisfactory balance that respects the requirements of flexibility and transparency. As you all know, the decentralization and deconcentration movements have changed the role of the State, which has shifted from a logic of prescription to a logic of facilitation. It is with this in mind that the state stands by communities to make our territories succeed. We have identified various "irritants", as they say now; We propose to lift brakes. With this agency, we have the opportunity to create a new tool – I insist on this term – that is readable and functional,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u104	It's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u105	... to the benefit of the territories and elected representatives, a tool at the service of the projects, which will meet the needs and provide tailor-made responses by mobilizing the resources of the State. This agency is not a gas plant or a new thing; It is a guarantee of rationality, so that those who act for and on the territories are more effective and manage to carry out their projects. I had the opportunity to take part in the work of your Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning both at the time of the general discussion on 29 January and at the time of drawing up the committee's text on 5 and 6 February. I would like once again to thank all Members for their efforts and to welcome the wealth of work we have done: they have led to the adoption of more than 80 amendments, out of a total of 414 tabled, which have therefore substantially expanded and improved the text before you. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] At the end of these discussions, I think we can express our satisfaction with the general balances we have achieved. I have no doubt that the debate which opens in public session will also allow, in keeping with these balances, a number of improvements to be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u106	Mrs Yolaine de Courson, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, has the floor on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u107	It is the former mayor of a small village that addresses you, a small village within an intercommunality of thirty-three villages, with their centre-bourg, in a rural area that, like many others in France, has experienced economic, demographic and social difficulties. These spaces that await their triggering moment are numerous in our country – in the city, in the countryside, in the sea, in the mountains, in the metropolis or overseas. Of course, they all have weaknesses, but above all advantages and singularities that only need to be revealed. The National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories is created for all these territories which are filled with talent, but which lack engineering, human or financial resources and sometimes inspiration to set up their projects. To enable all these communities, whatever their size and location, to emerge from projects that contribute to social cohesion, economic attractiveness or ecological transition in their territory, to enable resources to be made available to them and to facilitate the support of those most in need: this is the purpose of this agency. How can we overcome territorial fragility and get out of the culture of disability? The answer lies in innovation and the new policy in favour of the territories that the Agency will develop. It will be both its mission and the guarantee of its success. Our vision of the agency is structured around five axes: flexibility, collaboration, differentiation, the pitfalls to be avoided and a clear functioning. First, the Agency will have to be flexible in order to adapt to the specificities of the territories and keep as close as possible to the projects it will have to accompany. Under no circumstances should it attempt to copy and paste projects without taking into account local specificities. The time for calls for projects from the top, to which only those communities with the means to do so, and already equipped with the engineering necessary to implement them, responded, has passed. The agency will not, as it is sometimes said, be a new thing, an empty shell or a new observatory. For we observe so much that we have become blind: we no longer see these priority neighbourhoods, these rural communes, these intercommunalities, these countries, these departments in deficit of public services, housing, provision of care, access to mobility or digital connection. The Agency will mobilise the various actors who will collectively guarantee the development of innovative projects in each of the territories using it. These actors, what are they? On the one hand, those who will join the agency: the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of Territories, the Digital Agency and the EPARECA, responsible for the development and restructuring of commercial and artisanal spaces. On the other hand, those who will agree with her to provide their assistance and engineering for the projects: the Caisse des dépôts et des consignations, ADEME, ANRU, CEREMA and ANAH. The second axis is the collaborative aspect of the agency, an essential condition for a better articulation between territories. Because concrete and ambitious projects arise primarily from a shared vision, the agency will have, in its DNA, the co-construction of dynamics around coalitions of interests. It will follow a logic of project territories. For example, tomorrow, a group of communities will be able, around a health home, to imagine a social and solidarity mobility platform integrating patients, the transport needs of employees in the surrounding companies and up to those of individuals. This project will mobilize regions, departments, intercommunalities, municipalities, businesses and residents; It'll serve mobility, health, public service, and I'll do it. The third pillar is territorial differentiation. From this point of view, the creation of the ANCT represents a radical change of approach, which is claimed: differentiation is based on diversity, local assets and local wealth to develop projects. Even when the Agency implements national programs as a core city or industry territory, if the method is the same, each core city and industry territory will be unique. Thanks to this new paradigm, we will never hear again: "I'll explain why we can't do it," but rather: "we'll see how we can succeed." The Agency's interest is precisely to place the territorial dimension first; This is what all communities, elected representatives and local actors expect. For the fourth time in my speech, let me take a step forward and clarify what the agency should not be and what it should not do. The Agency will not be another public institution among the faltitude of already existing agencies since it will bring together three of them in favour of a global strategy. The agency will not be a lock or a place for blocking or "prioritizing" projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u108	We hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u109	That's all he'd miss!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u110	The Agency will not only be able to make up for the accumulated delays, but will also provide communities with the means to take ownership of their future. Owning your future means becoming a laboratory capable of responding to the major challenges of social inclusion, access to culture, ecological transition, mobility and economic development that we will face in the coming years. The agency will not work in a logic of public-private opposition, competition between territories or political or institutional rivalry between elected officials and local actors. On the contrary, it will call for projects of proximity defended by women and men on the ground through constructive alliances. The cohesion of the territories is to develop the attractiveness of everyone and the solidarity between all. What makes France is the diversity and wealth of the territories. The agency will not be disconnected, the structure above ground or encouraging centralization, as is sometimes understood. It will serve communities, as close as possible to their projects, and will meet the needs of all, even small communities. The fifth axis is a clear and accessible operation. As you said, Madam Minister, a clear operation is a single door of entry: the prefect of department. He will be close to the needs and the focal point between the various levels. We see this every day in our constituencies: for the very isolated communes as well as for the priority districts of city politics, the relationship with the State is sometimes complex; For many projects, they turn to the prefecture, which redirects them to ADEME, ANRU, other public institutions or local authorities. The ANCT will be the one-stop shop that will be responsible for mobilising government agencies. The Prefect will be responsible for bringing together the Territorial Cohesion Committee, provided for in Article 5, which we will rename as "local cohesion committee" to avoid confusion of terminology between the various levels. This local committee will be the real forum for dialogue for local elected officials, parliamentarians, public and private actors and technical services. The presence of qualified personalities on this committee will be a real plus to shed light on the projects that will be accompanied by the ANCT. It will be a space for sharing, informing and monitoring projects. These local committees will be the Agency's focus on planning and cohesion. That is why, during the examination of the text in committee, we have planned the presence of regional health agencies. As we know, access to care is one of the major concerns of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u111	There's an urgent need for this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u112	I am convinced that the presence of a representative of the RSA will be an unparalleled opportunity to address health and land-use issues. I would like to thank colleagues from the various benches who have been supporting and sharing this vision from the beginning. At national level, an action committee, provided for in Article 7, which we will rename, for greater readability, "National Coordinating Committee", will bring together the bodies agreed upon and will meet at the request of the Director General of the Agency to ensure the implementation of the conventions. Finally, a board of directors, provided for in Article 3, will be composed of elected representatives, representatives of local and regional authorities and representatives of the State, including representatives of very important ministries such as the one of health – I welcome your commitment to this in the examination of the text in committee, Madam Minister. Of course, the ANC will not have a vocation to do in the place of anyone. But to be a real facilitator of projects, it must be able to inform communities. Thus, the ANC will not do in place of the regions; On the contrary, we hope that it will play its full role and that it will be able to inform and direct project promoters on mobilizable budgets, such as European funds. That is the position that I will stand alongside Christophe Euzet, draftsman of the bill's bill. We will all agree: it would be regrettable if the Agency made political choices at the expense of technical choices. Colleagues, for several decades, social divides have worsened and territorial divides have increased. In addition, there has been the loss of credibility of public speech. After 30 hours of hearings to prepare the bill, all the people heard shared the following vision: the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories will be desirable and will succeed only if it is a light structure supporting strong projects, to play its full role as facilitator of the process and as a supporter of innovative and viable projects. Through this legislation, it is about giving communities and citizens the opportunity to undertake. It is time to set an example, to be optimistic and enthusiastic. This optimism and enthusiasm accompanied me throughout the preparation of this text and, for sharing them with me, I would like to thank my fellow draftsmen for their opinions or information rapporteur: Christophe Euzet for the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Célia de Lavergne for the Committee on Economic Affairs and Didier Martin for the delegation to territorial authorities and decentralization. I also thank all the administrators for the quality of their work and their availability, in particular Sophie Rolland-Pagé and Marion Pouffary. Finally, I have a strong thought for President Barbara Pompili and for all my colleagues in the Committee on Sustainable Development for their support and assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u113	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Through this text, it is up to us to show that we trust the territorial intelligence and the sense of responsibility of local actors. As you will have understood, it is a matter of abandoning some of our old reflexes and adopting new forms of accompaniment to territorial dynamism. This is a great opportunity that we must not let go because we must be consistent, especially when we invent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u115	Mr Christophe Euzet, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, spoke on the proposal for an organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u116	The creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories responds to a strong commitment of the President of the Republic and reflects a double will: to consolidate a development and clarify a situation. Indeed, this has just been said, after a long period of verticality, of declination of national programmes in indifference to territorial sensitivities, one has moved on to a contract which I would call relative horizontality, in the context of which local projects were the declination of national programmes as central action of city or territories of industry. Of course, the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories will take over the tasks of the agencies merged within it. The revitalisation of the city centres, within the framework of the EPARECA, the French high-speed programmes and the digital society within the framework of the Digital Agency, the national territorialised programmes as the core action of city and industry territories, of course. The ANC will bring us into a new era, this has already been stressed twice, by allowing local projects to find technical, legal and financial engineering where it was lacking. Too often, it has been said, the very small, the most precarious, the least equipped in logistics are receding and differ or even abandoning their projects because too complicated, too expensive – it is a problem that you know well, Madam Minister, and that is why you propose a paradigm shift called of its wishes by all the local fabric, a change whose great national debate has echoed. It is not only a question of changing paradigms but also of simplifying an overly complex situation. To this end, a one-stop shop is created so that the state speaks with one voice. The prefect will therefore become the interlocutor,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u117	We don't really get out of centralization here...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u118	... the facilitator and will direct his interlocutor to the relevant actors. Of course, the territorial delegate, the prefect, should be able to effectively play this facilitating role through strengthened means. In this perspective, in addition to the Board of Directors, the new institution of the National Action Committee will have to ensure that the tasks entrusted to it, together with the various merged actors: ADEME, ANRU, ANAH and CEREMA, are put into effective collective and consensual action. However, the text itself is already making a significant change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u119	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u120	At the risk of surprising you: yes. The text, between the original version considered by the Senate and that of the work of the committee before the House and the committees seized for opinion, and thanks to a collaborative work – already welcomed – with the rapporteurs, the many colleagues involved and you, Madam Minister, whom I thank for your co-constructive spirit, the text, therefore, has evolved significantly. The action of the ANC has thus been better targeted, the coordinating role of the Prefect has been considerably clarified, the composition of local committees has been clarified, and we have agreed, Madam Minister, to the idea of a circular rather than a list at the Prévert with regard to the composition of committees at the territorial level. The majority presence of the state on the board of directors has also been restored, as your reasoning, Madam Minister, has won the conviction of the rapporteurs, resented by two elements: the local authorities will be eminently represented on the board and the president of the ANCT will be a local elected representative. However, the Committee on Laws and the Committee on Sustainable Development had adopted the principle that project promoters could be reformed by the Prefect as to the possibility of seeking European funds to direct them towards the regions. This issue was discussed. I will submit an amendment of reason on this subject and I hope, Madam Minister, that you will follow me in my willingness to compromise. I hope that you will go beyond the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u121	The minister just said no, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u122	Ouch, ouch, ouch!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u123	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u124	Everything's gonna be okay, I'm not worried. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With regard to the proposal for an organic law, for which the Committee on Laws is seized on the merits, we must decide, as usual, on the importance of the function of Director-General of the Agency "for the guarantee of the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation", as provided for in Article 13 of the Constitution. This criterion requires the possibility of submitting the choice of candidate nominated by the executive to the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees, which may object to it. As rapporteur, I consider that this criterion is well met in view of the importance of territorial cohesion policy for local and regional authorities as well as for citizens, especially since the ADEME Presidency and the ANRU Directorate-General are already subject to the same procedure. In order to avoid any risk of censorship by the Constitutional Council, we will maintain this provision on the occasion of the parliamentary shuttle by adopting an amendment by the Government, but the provision in question has not raised any difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u125	Mrs Célia de Lavergne, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u126	I have the honour to present to you the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the proposal for a law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. Our committee has taken up the whole text for its opinion because of its competence in the field of city policy, trade and digital technology, three issues which will be at the heart of the Agency's future actions. But, more broadly, the Committee on Economic Affairs wishes to include consideration of this bill in the context of the major national debate under way. All the Members present this afternoon know that among the demands of our citizens are the fight against territorial divides, the decline of public services in fragile territories and the necessary renewal of the state's presence in those same territories. If our fellow citizens want a strong state, they want answers adapted to each territory, based on proximity, the relationship of trust with local elected officials and the consideration of local specificities. This is precisely the promise of this bill: to reinvent partnership work between the state and local and regional authorities, in order to facilitate the lives of the project-holders, the elected representatives of fragile territories, and to better combat the economic, social and environmental divides that divide our territories. This agency will first be a tool at the service of the territories and our elected representatives on the ground. Too often, our mayors have felt alone, especially in rural areas. Too often, they have felt a lack of support or a sense of abandonment. All too often, they have had to deploy considerable energy to try to achieve their projects, which have sometimes been crushed by the administrative procedures, the complexity and the rigidity towards which our country has been drifting for many years. However, the local elected representatives of fragile territories, whether rural, suburban, mountain or ultramarine, do not lack ideas to develop their territory. For them, the prefect of department, the territorial delegate of the agency, will mobilise resources in engineering of the services of the State and its operators, as well as other public and private actors who will want to join the process. To this end, our committee has adopted an amendment to clarify that the agency will have to identify the public and private engineering offer available, in a single window logic and the coordination of actors. Another amendment entrusts the Agency with the task of promoting cooperation and exchange between local and regional authorities. Such practices already exist in certain territories, especially between metropolises and fragile territories of the same basin of life. The ANCT can be a great opportunity to increase this new form of territorial solidarity. The Agency's promise is also to put an end to the downward logic of calls for national projects that has prevailed in recent years, and to replace it with an ascending logic. The projects will leave the territories, and the state will make available the resources it will be able to mobilize, as is the case today for the core city action programs and industrial territories. The debates in the Committee on Economic Affairs have also allowed us to look at the issue of integrating city policy into the ANCT, an area which falls within the competence of the committee. For a long time, the trend has been to treat rural areas and deprived suburbs separately and in a differentiated way. However, the inhabitants of these two types of territory often face the same difficulties: confinement and lack of means of transport, decline or even disappearance of public services, difficulties of access to care, scarcity of shops and employment. The answers to this question are therefore better to be shared. The Agency can thus become a great opportunity to create new synergies. I am thinking of third places and public service houses: created for rural territories, they can perfectly adapt to the priority areas of city policy. On the other hand, EPARECA, which today promotes the commercial revitalization of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy, can also intervene in the centres of the medium-sized cities. Our discussions in committee led us to question the role of private actors in relations with the future agency: they are as partners in the territories that should not be overlooked, whether they are consular chambers, professional organisations or networks of entrepreneurs. As such, I will defend an amendment earlier to provide for the presence of a representative from the business community on the Agency's board of directors, as there is on the EPARECA Board of Directors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us be sure, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of the support that the Committee on Economic Affairs is giving to this bill, which is part of the continuation of its work in favour of cohesion in the territories, which we have already given to the ESSOC bill, for a state at the service of a society of trust, and ELAN, for the development of housing, development and digital technology. It is a new stone in the construction of a better-structured state, serving better-accompanied communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u127	Mr Didier Martin, the information rapporteur of the delegation to local and regional authorities and decentralization, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u128	The National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories brings together three existing structures: the National Public Establishment for the Development and Restructuring of Commercial and Craft Spaces, EPARECA, the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of Territories, the CGET, and the Digital Agency. Its creation arouses a great deal of expectations and questioning. I am thinking of the questioning of the agencies that will integrate or work closely with the future agency. There is also the questioning of public or private structures that are now involved in the field of territorial engineering. It is natural that the eruption of a new actor causes such reactions. This explains why the delegation to local authorities and the decentralization of the National Assembly has taken up the bill largely restructured by the Senate at first reading. As the delegation's information rapporteur, I have conducted and participated in numerous hearings with my colleagues. The examination of the draft law before the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning has led to a great deal of clarification, in particular with regard to the priority targeted territories, the various forms of legal, financial and technical engineering, the scope of the public policies implemented, the definition of the ANC's scope of action in the field of digital coverage, the composition of the board of directors – perhaps not yet fixed –, the composition and functioning of the departmental committees, the possibility of setting up subsidiaries for the missions currently covered by the EPARECA, or the signing of multi-annual tripartite agreements with the State and the various operators. I would also like to thank the Minister for providing assurances on the principle of free action by the Agency and on the special attention paid to collaborative projects. However, in my view, there are still some issues to be decided, such as the composition of the Board of Directors, the means of intervention of the Agency, or the role of the prefects of the regions. Together with several colleagues in the delegation to local and regional authorities, I have tabled a series of amendments, some of which are of the nature of a call for amendments, in an attempt to move forward on these issues. I would point out that the depreciating hyper-rural territories, the small towns affected by the closure of shops, the priority areas of the city's policy, and the mountain and overseas territories are primarily affected by the action of the future National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. It is therefore up to us to determine in the most realistic way possible its methods of intervention, while knowing that it is in practice, as close as possible to the communities, the elected representatives and the inhabitants, that the Agency's action in the service of their projects will have to be defined in practice. The Agency is therefore not intended to intervene in all projects. Its action will be targeted and subsidiary, mainly directed towards the most fragile and less well-equipped territories. It will have to fill the gaps, make up for the delays, repair the holes in the racket, as is often said. But above all, and this is new, it will have to carry out its action, as close as possible to the territories...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u129	There's work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u130	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and SOC groups]] ...through prefects and sub-prefects. Qualified as developers and organizers, putting all government services into motion simultaneously, they will work at the same time at a new stage of deconcentration and decentralization. This latter objective, often stated but never fully achieved, does not constitute the slightest interest of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u131	Mrs Pompili, chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u132	The cohesion of the territories is an essential issue for the committee that I have the honour to chair. It is a guiding thread of our work, regardless of the topics we have to deal with. I see this as an obvious sign of our collective attachment to the territories because, contrary to what some would suggest, the land we know and we know its needs. This is the case for all the Members present here, who are in contact with fellow citizens in their constituencies. We all know that. The territories are faced with various movements, some of which lead to their weakening. First of all, there is the movement of metropolisation, accompanied by a diffuse feeling of decommissioning, or even abandoning part of the territories by economic actors, which would turn away from it to urban areas, which are engines of growth. Then there is the territorial reorganization of certain public services, which can leave a bitter taste to the territories faced with the closure of certain sites, rightly considered essential by the populations concerned. Finally, there are communities that carry visions and land projects that would improve the direct and daily service to their people, create jobs or make ecological advances, including sustainable development, but they do not always succeed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the other hand, they often lack technical or financial resources. They are also impoverished by the multiplicity of outlets and stakeholders. How we understand them! The administrative maquis is not a hollow formula: the complexity of our organization is real; Every local elected one day has been confronted. It is not acceptable that, by causing a waste of time and energy, this situation should lead to the abandonment of projects that would make it possible to boost the territories. We must therefore find ways to enable them to build future prospects from their own vision, without yielding to the ease of opposing urban and rural territories. As we know, certain priority areas of city policy are as much affected by this problem as some rural areas. Our objective must therefore be to provide the territories with an easily accessible interlocutor, and a toolbox to guide them towards the aids and structures useful for carrying out their projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u133	[[Smile]] That's it, we find François Hollande's "toolbox"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u134	It's DIY!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u135	The need is real.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u136	We share the observation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u137	This is why some communities, including departments, have set up technical agencies on their own. But not all departments have them, and it seems to me natural that the State should be the guarantor of the cohesion of the territories, respecting the local initiatives already taken, of course. That is the whole purpose of the proposed legislation and the proposed organic law that we are considering. In the words of the Minister, the National Agency for Territorial Cohesion must mark the transition to a facilitating State. Our committee has of course endorsed this approach, which marks a real change of philosophy. The Agency will have to make it possible to be tailor-made, tailored to the needs of each community that will use its services. Our work in committee has been dense. Approximately 360 amendments were discussed. I would like to welcome the involvement of our rapporteur, Mrs Yolaine de Courson, but also of the draftsmen, Mrs Célia de Lavergne and Mr Christophe Euzet, as well as of the information rapporteur, Mr Didier Martin. We have taken up some of their proposals, which we consider to be very judicious. Our discussions in committee focused, in particular, on the nature of the territories that would call upon the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories and on the priority areas of intervention of the establishment. Its governance was also widely discussed, as was the way in which its actions were coordinated with other State operators. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On all these points, we have made good progress. We have enriched the text that was transmitted to us by the Senate, with the always constructive lighting of the minister, whom I thank for her listening. I have no doubt that this will be the case in our debates in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u138	[[At 18:55, Mr. Francis Vercamer replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u139	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee, tabled under Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal for a law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u140	In France of 2019, all inequalities are exploding: social inequalities, inequalities in the quality of housing, inequalities in access to public services. The movement of the yellow vests is a strong echo of this situation. In Île-de-France, the budget for all social and environmental policies has fallen sharply: since 2015, less 5% for transport, less 36% for health and less 27% for development and housing. There is therefore a state of emergency in terms of territorial and environmental inequalities. You are proposing today to set up an agency working for the cohesion of the territory, a territory which is largely affected by the increase in inequalities which I have just mentioned, you will agree. I assume that the Seine-Saint-Denis, the department in which my constituency is located, will be directly affected by the work of such an agency. So I want to tell you a word about this department and the concrete situation that its inhabitants are experiencing. Mr Christophe Castaner, Minister of the Interior, recently visited Seine-Saint-Denis to present his so-called "reconquest Republican" plan, inherited from his predecessor. It leads us to say that neighbourhoods need not a warrior language or a warrior posture, but above all the restoration of republican equality. That should be the Government's concrete priority. Every day, in my term as Member of Parliament for the first constituency of Seine-Saint-Denis, I am witness to the very real social damage caused by not only your policy, since they are the result of the addition of the actions of many governments. I am not just saying that because I am a member of the opposition. Recently, the information report by our colleague Cornut-Gentille, a member of the group Les Républicains, on the Seine-Saint-Denis has demonstrated to what extent this department is one of the most marked by the multiple social and environmental divides, revealed in a trans-partisan manner by several elected officials, who have all addressed the same observation and the same demands to the Prime Minister. For example, Ms. Sylvin Thomassin, of Messrs. Azzedine Taïbi, Mohamed Gnabaly and Laurent Russier, respectively mayors of Bondy, Stains, Île-Saint-Denis and Saint-Denis, had no other choice but to assign the State to justice for breach of equality, the department of Seine-Saint-Denis being underfunded compared to other territories according to the number of inhabitants, with fewer teachers, fewer magistrates, less infrastructure, fewer police officers, in short, less republic. Departments reduced to these situations of great insecurity are being abused by the State. I do not believe that these issues will be resolved by means of communications, additional toolboxes or agencies. In reality, they need to be supported by the State and benefit from a whole spatial planning policy geared both to equality and to rebalancing. To take the example only of my constituency, over the last three weeks, here are some struggles, some citizen mobilizations, which I would like to echo here to make you understand, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening there. In Saint-Ouen, their names are José and Hasni. Along with many of their colleagues, they have been struggling for several years to safeguard their workplace, PSA plant, and their jobs. However, we know that PSA made a record net profit of 1.48 billion euros in 2018. Everyone praises the quality of this stamping plant and recognizes how much it meets a need for this automotive giant. This is one of the last industrial sites still standing in the city of Saint-Ouen – as is the case in many other peripheral cities in Paris. Where is PSA going to relocate? We don't know, the information is opaque. In any case, PSA is the testimony of deindustrialisation, of the slow but certain destruction of sites that generated employment. In Epinay-sur-Seine, teachers, together with students and their parents, moved against Bill Blanquer for a school of trust and against all austerity policies that aggravate deficiencies in human resources and material resources in these schools already suffering from terrible inequality. Also in Epinay-sur-Seine: mobilization against the closure of the free reception of the users of the primary health insurance fund. For now, all requests, even urgent ones, can only be processed by appointment and users must devote their entire day to go to the reception centre of La Plaine Saint-Denis: forty minutes of journey to multiply by two, even for an emergency! Again in Saint-Ouen, we are talking about a new hospital, a megastructure called "Hôpital Grand Nord" which should be built on the PSA site, which is said to come from the fusion between two hospitals, Bichat and Beaujon: in total, 400 beds less. Why prefer, to a structure of human size, to a hospital of proximity that the Seine-Saint-Denis needs, a hospital of such a size with fewer beds? Why not involve the inhabitants of Saint-Ouen in the establishment of the new hospital? There is virtually no consultation but so-called experts who have no knowledge of the terrain or the wishes of the inhabitants. It is a bit like the agency that we are being offered, coming from above, for a cohesion of the superficial territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u141	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u142	Inequality in access to care is linked to unequal access to transport: neighbourhoods are landlocked, deprived of transportation, or, when there are, they are sometimes in a state of unsanitary and unworthy saturation of a public service. I invite all the Members present here to come and take, at eight o'clock in the morning, the metro line 13 – or the RER B line – and they will see that the users, skewed against each other, are not entitled to space or air conditioning during heat waves, and that there are daily operational problems, to the point that a possible message indicating that "on line 13, there is no technical problem" would be worth broadcasting when this is the case, so exceptional. And STIF – the Syndicat des transports d'Île-de-France – to propose as a solution to remove the strapons in these livestock transports... I recall that millions of our fellow citizens are aware of this situation on a daily basis, to the point that I am very surprised that a movement of Navigo vests has not yet started. And, as far as housing is concerned, still in my constituency, I was recently alerted by people living in unspeakable conditions, at 10 Ornano Boulevard, in Saint-Denis, Pleyel district: a father and his daughter of a few months live in half of a room without a window, with a smell of mould that grabs you at the throat; electric cables drag on the floor in the stairwell; a woman with cancer is obliged to live, with her husband and children, in a 10 square meters; All of them were paying more recently, before a trial took place, 400 to 600 euros per month for these dwellings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u143	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u144	They are victims of sleep merchants and lack of emergency accommodation in Saint-Denis. It is Dickens or Germinal, in the 21st century, in France, the fifth world economic power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u145	That's really not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u146	But if, dear colleague, we are talking about a text on territorial cohesion and inequality. They are also victims of an absolutely unequal real estate market and of these policies which gradually instill in the minds of people and in the minds of decision-makers, including that of the President of the Île-de-France region, Mrs Pécresse, that the question of social housing is synonymous with social ghettos, even though it is clear that these housing units and the construction of emergency housing would be an answer for those families who are living in absolutely unbearable situations. Unless the objective is to keep the underprivileged population away from the periphery, within the framework of the Grand Paris, which provides for an ever greater urban spread, the nearest peripheral areas – the small red belt – have become inaccessible to their present inhabitants because of real estate speculation. The solution cannot be an agency that lacks resources and relies on operators who are in difficulty as a result of the downsizing. First, the state must stop lowering allocations to communities. They are strangled, they no longer have room for manoeuvre and are sometimes determined to assign the State to justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u147	Some speakers have voted for the downsizing and give us lessons, like Mrs Pompili!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u148	I repeat: this situation is not solely due to this government, but unfortunately you are pursuing the same policy, Madam Minister. Secondly, the State's objective of spatial planning must be oriented towards republican equality. You all see, through the examples I have cited, that there is an urgent need to meet the most basic needs of the inhabitants and an urgent need to invest massively, if only to guarantee a dignified life for the French. But the text before us does not respond to any urgency, I am sorry to tell you. It's not a piece of legislation but rather looks like a communication agency PowerPoint.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u149	Like everything they do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u150	It is once again a law of diversion, a text where one changes everything so that in the end nothing changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u151	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u152	As the PSA plant relocates, your bill sets us a fine acronym: a state public institution named "ANCT", for the National Agency for Territorial Cohesion. Its stated aim is to support local authorities and "local actors" in their projects, as well as to provide an "engineering" offer to "project promoters" and by providing "human and financial support to local authorities and their groups". Its aim is therefore to fulfil basic tasks that are already accomplished, replacing existing State operators. While teachers are demonstrating in favor of decent working conditions for their students, as I just recalled, you are focusing all your efforts on creating a new administrative shell. While beds are closing in hospitals, you have fun creating administrative Russian dolls. Your marketing operation is useless, if not dangerous, because it still weakens the common triptych-department-state in favour of a strange triangle made up of territories, regions and the European Union. As a result, decisions will be further concentrated in the hands of elected officials by indirect suffrage, more and more distant from citizens. The consequences for local elected officials, for those who are closest to the concerns of citizens, are well known: town halls and departmental councils become complaints offices, with broken pockets and powerless. You add a layer of administrative and even technocratic paint – and that is the risk – to make forget the reality of your policy vis-à-vis the operators of the state, which you have already kneeled down. The reality of your policy is that an agency such as CEREMA, which must be included in the ANC, has been impoverished for years: the staff are cut off; a site in the Lyon region threatened with closure. The different services you agglomerate in this text have been under-invested chronically for years. They don't need a new acronym; They need money and resources! I echo the words of Mr de Nicolaÿ, rapporteur of the Senate Committee on Sustainable Development: "The risk is well established that the agency will represent "one more tree in the forest" of public institutions and state operators. This is what you are proposing today: a new bureaucratic gas plant. Indeed, the ANC is a thing, a thing, a bidule, supposed to make us forget that the government services suffer from fiscal plan policies. The ANC is a thing, a thing, a bidule, supposed to hide the fact that the personnel of state operators suffer from chaotic and austere management. The ANC is a trick, a thing, a bidule, which prevents one from wondering why national leadership of our policies is on the loose, why funding is drifting and why the ecological transition is threatened by a government that is navigating on sight, without any planning aim. The only thing that your bill allows is to add blur and complexity. The text announces "multi-year agreements" to be drawn up within three months of promulgation. We will therefore be debating when we do not even know what the nature of the agency's relations with public institutions with regard to funding and collaboration will be. You're actually proposing that we debate blindfolded. However, there would be more to be done than a coup de communication: to reaffirm, for example, our commitment to the commune, to the department and to the State. Our group does not want an agency far from the citizens and controlled by an iron hand by a government under the control of the European Union, without ever being consulted by elected officials on the ground. Some operators are absolutely essential to ensure the ecological transition of our society. This requires an enormous effort that only public engineering can fulfil, but it is obviously contrary to the public action programme 2022 that your government proposes and which, too, is apprehensive of the operators' action only through accounting plans for workforce reductions. Moreover, if the agency's intervention with local authorities is essential, then it must be guaranteed that its intervention is free of charge. It is not up to communities to pay the costs of the ecological transition. No more than land use planning, it is not a product for sale. We want the various operators to be heard. Their boards of directors must be able to validate multi-annual agreements. Perhaps by giving them the floor, you will realize the harm you do not only to the staff of these operators but also to the general interest. As you will have understood, we think only the question of the creation of a new agency, a new gas plant, the solution to the serious problems facing our country. If the tasks of the agency are of general interest, it must be a public institution, with public law personnel, the use of public employment must be the norm, and its various tasks, such as spatial planning, must not be subject to concerns of profitability. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party proposes that you refer back to committee this bill, which it opposes as it stands, as it opposes any smoke and any camouflage of the unequal and productive policy of the Government, a policy which no agency will succeed in correcting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u153	In explanation of vote on the motion for referral to committee, the floor is Mr Guy Bricout.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u154	The IUD, Action and Independent Group is, in general, against motions for prior rejection and motions for referral to committee. The debate must take place here in open session. We've been waiting for him for two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u155	It would take place in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u156	This bill is a good start, even if it still needs to be improved. Changes have already been made during its examination in committee. We hope to see further adjustments in the public debate. Beyond the legislative changes, it is the support provided by the Government that will ensure the success of this agency or not. For all these reasons, our group will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u157	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u158	I would like to respond to some of the reactions I heard during Mr Coquerel's speech and to reaffirm the issue of the motion for referral to committee. When we take stock, the state of play, it is very clear that the bill, supported by the Government, to add this new agency to the existing structures does not meet the real situation of the territories. Our colleague Coquerel referred to the example of the Seine-Saint-Denis, but the debates over the last few months – particularly on the difficulties of the territories – as the so-called "yellow vests" movement shows: the problems of territorial cohesion, economic development and accessibility of public services will not be solved or even mitigated by the simple creation, from above, of a structure designed to pool the scarce resources of the existing agencies without absorbing the situation. The motion for referral back to committee gives us the opportunity to go back to the substance of the debate, to return to the reality of public policy, in particular by raising, beyond the questions of structure and technique, the question of the resources involved, and perhaps to reflect on a more transversal intervention at ministerial level or even to anticipate it. I will mention just now the role that the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition could play in this area. In short, perhaps we must avoid locking ourselves in a purely technocratic and bureaucratic response to the problems of the people and dealing with them in substance. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In spite of the few amendments introduced by amendment, the text seems to me to be missing out on what is essential. Its adoption would make us miss the opportunity to meet certain urgent needs of the population, which our fellow citizens have reminded us recently, and which they will remind us once again on the street in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u159	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u160	We believe that this text is an object that is still poorly identified and too ambiguous. Moreover, this observation haunts some remarks made by members of the majority itself. In addition, the practical functioning of the scheme – which is essential – will not be specified until the publication of the regulations. On the substance, I have noted the rapporteur's comments. However, without wishing to insult him, among the a priori justifications of the bill, there is an alignment of pearls. Thus, its purpose is broad, but its definition does not include any reference to explicitly social and educational problems, which are nevertheless a major challenge for social and territorial cohesion. The territorial target is devoid of proven priority, while we see that specific territories are in great difficulty in our country. The text designates the prefect and his sub-prefects to refer to the ANCT – fortunately because they are there for this, even if, in the city as well as in the fields, they are confronted with the dismantling of prefectural services. As for the question of means, I will not go back to the elements already mentioned. Finally, singularity – the word is right – of diagnoses and solutions for the populations of the territories cannot mean increasingly institutionalized differentiation. This week, the Assembly, under the auspices of its President, will hold a colloquium on the differentiation of territories. The GDR Group sees this – particularly as a good Jacobin – as a worrying trend.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u161	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u162	I share much of the contract drawn up by Mr Coquerel, particularly with regard to fears about the priority areas of city policy. However, we have already debated in committee, we will continue in open session, and there is an urgent need.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u163	Indeed, but not to vote on this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u164	If the policy of the city is to be carried out in a different way from that proposed in the text, we must also take care of the rural areas, which have long been forgotten, even abandoned, by many of us – our responsibility is collective, I believe. The Liberté et Territoire Group will therefore vote against referring the text back to committee. However, during its public discussion, we hope that our amendments to make the Agency – which is far from perfect at this stage – an effective reality will not only be discussed but will be retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u165	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u166	It seems a bit unfortunate to me to put forward arguments from the outset as a pretext to a political forum. This is the case here, in particular with regard to the problems dealt with by the ELAN law – which is a development of housing, development and digital technology – which has nevertheless enabled progress to be made on the subject of sleep merchants in urban areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u167	What about the construction of social housing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u168	On the other hand, we have always said that the Agency will be open not exclusively in rural areas but in all types of sectors, including urban areas. We also believe that this bill responds to needs, commitments and emergencies – on this last point, we agree. First of all, it aims to accompany the territories. Elected from a rural area, I personally think first of all of the rural areas, which are in dire need of them. For several years, they have been suffering from a lack of engineering and sometimes a lack of culture in terms of planning – I must say so, and I, who am an urban planner, know a little about what I'm talking about – as well as information about available public policies. We are the great country of public policy. Some people don't like it, but there's a lot of it. However, they are not sufficiently implemented. The creation of the ANC is an opportunity to put them at the centre of our territories. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Moreover, it is a matter of ensuring the balance between the territories in terms of public policies. This requirement seems to me to be extremely important. I've lived it closely in my job for about ten years. It is necessary to establish a real local relay for our communes and our intercommunalities, through what could be called a third place of sharing, exchange, work and project, a "fab lab" of the planning of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u169	Stop the formulas! You have to be pragmatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u170	In the Chamber, we do not have the right to speak German, but we can speak French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u171	In our territories, in order to develop a local economy, it is necessary to provide support for renewable energy projects and local housing policies – 50 % of the territory, which is not displeased by some, is not covered by them, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u172	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u173	To answer social questions, start by applying local housing policies. For these reasons – I'm sorry to be a little long –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u174	Too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u175	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] ... the La République en marche group will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u177	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u178	Clearly, the observation is shared on all the benches of the National Assembly: the territorial divide has never been so deep.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u179	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u180	We are a lot to think that territorial engineering and intelligence can provide a response. This could also have been the case with this piece of legislation. Unfortunately, despite a dense, long and precise work in committee, we did not get all the answers we expected,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u181	Yes! But we're gonna get them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u182	... concerning the functioning of the ANCT, its Board of Directors and its funding. We could therefore have tabled a motion to refer the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u183	It's fake! Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u184	However, the LR group trusts the Government. We want to give the text its chance and not pollute our debates by asking for it to be referred back to committee, in order to begin immediately the examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u186	We trust the minister to accept, in her wisdom, a number of amendments from all parliamentary groups. That's the bet we're making right now. That is why we will not vote to refer the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u188	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u189	It turns out that local elected officials in many territories make a clear demand: to have a single point of entry from the state, concentrating the supply of engineering put at the service of the local authorities. This tool would contribute to the development of our territories. In response to a need for responsiveness, readability and equity, the National Territorial Cohesion Agency will deconcentrate decision-making. Most importantly, the ANCT will be an effective tool for serving territories and supporting elected officials, with a view to reducing social divides. That is why the adoption of a motion to refer it back to committee is totally counterproductive, as it would delay its creation. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement considers that the text before us is not perfect. We fear that a number of provisions adopted in committee will introduce complexity. However, we do not propose the same remedy as the author of the motion for referral to committee. In the absence of a solution, we prefer the debate in open session in order to have the opportunity to debate our amendments, which are intended to simplify the bill and thus restore the facilitator tool proposed by the President of the Republic. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u190	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u191	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u192	The Socialist and Related Group will not vote in favour of referring the text back to committee for two main reasons. First of all, the expectations of the elected representatives of the territories for assistance in the implementation of their projects – particularly in the most fragile territories – are immense. The sooner we give them help, the better. There's an emergency. The one-stop shop is popular, in particular in order to steer in the administrative maquis. In addition, in the context of the consideration of several texts in recent months, the creation of ANCT has been used as a pretext for rejecting amendments from all opposition groups, with the majority and the Government referring us to the text establishing the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories. It is therefore time to check whether the commitments then will be fulfilled tonight and tomorrow. However, there is no question of giving you a blank, Madam Minister. Many questions asked in committee, particularly about the ANC's resources, remained unanswered. We hope that the debates that are opening this evening will fill these gaps.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u193	In the joint general debate, Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u194	We look forward to the successful conclusion of the presidential commitment to the establishment of a national territorial cohesion agency. The IDU, Action and Independent Group proposed it more than a year ago, in December 2017. So, almost two years after the commitment of the President of the Republic, we have come to consider a bill from our fellow senators adopted by them at first reading. We regret that the Government has not taken its responsibilities by presenting a formal bill with an impact assessment. Fortunately, the Speaker of the Senate – and we thank him for that – used his prerogatives and sought advice from the Council of State, which improved the drafting of the text. The agency proposed to us aims to bring together certain agencies and ensure better coordination of projects. It is intended to address the growing divide between territories, particularly between rural and other territories. Indeed, if many means are mobilised in favour of the city's policy – and this is necessary – we must not forget that our rural territories, if they attract less attention, are just as fragile. The Agency will therefore have to work in the spirit of ensuring territorial cohesion and equality between the territories. I am talking about a fracture, but it is rather on the other side of a gulf that the inhabitants of our rural communes and neighbourhoods feel like living, when it comes to having access to a specialist doctor or going to his place of work by public transport, to take only these two examples. Over the past few months, we have seen that many French people are subject to compulsory mobility; Because they are unable to choose their means of transport, they are dependent on them. Such an agency is therefore essential to provide a comprehensive and coherent vision for territorial policy. However, while it is gratifying that an initiative is being taken for its long-awaited creation, many questions remain about it. I will first mention what we can rejoice at. It is hoped that the creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories, or ANCT, will mark the beginning of the rationalization of State operators in this field, thanks to the merger of the CGET, the General Commission for the Equality of Territories, the EPARECA, the national public institution for the development and restructuring of commercial and artisanal spaces, and the Digital Agency. Nevertheless, we regret that this rationalization does not go any further. Indeed, I repeat that a report by the General Inspectorate of Finance published in 2012 listed some 1244 state agencies, whose annual operating costs at that time amounted to EUR 50 billion. For information, Germany has only 122 agencies, more than ten times less. The same report also mentioned a lack of a comprehensive strategy and many duplications between agencies – some of which, I agree, are useful and effective. If efforts have been made since then, the process of rationalizing the functioning of the State should be further intensified. Nevertheless, thanks to this new agency, the other state operators, ANRU, ANAH, ADEME and CEREMA, will finally talk to each other, exchange and coordinate, with the future National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories as the lead agency. The latter's leadership will need to be further improved as it seems to be too dependent on the future personality chosen to lead the agency and on the Government's leadership. The agency will also be the body – and I would like to welcome it – which will involve local elected representatives in the cohesion policies of the state, with the presence of local elected representatives on the board of directors and in territorial cohesion committees at departmental level. It's a new element. However, I would like to draw your attention to the following point: in order to ensure the success of this agency, elected representatives must be truly involved in decision-making and not be put before the fait accompli. Consideration of this text is also an opportunity to highlight the quality of exchanges within the Committee on Sustainable Development. Some of our concerns have been identified in the Commission's text: the Agency will provide assistance to European aid applications from the communities; The Agency will focus on areas with strong geographical constraints, such as overseas communities. We are also pleased with the increased presence of parliamentarians on the board of directors and their association, at the departmental level, with territorial cohesion committees. Indeed, the cohesion of the territories will not be achieved without local elected representatives or parliamentarians. The elected representatives are well aware of their territory; They must therefore have their full place in the organisation of the agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u195	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u196	Finally, it is necessary for the Commission to find a good link with existing regional or departmental schemes. I think, for example, of the departmental engineering agency iNord, which I created in 2016, while I was vice-president of the departmental council of the North. Things still need to be improved. First, as it stands, the bill does not create a single window for communities. On the contrary, it introduces a new component into the multitude of state-owned institutions operating locally. That is why we will propose to re-establish Article 3a in order to be able, at a later stage, to integrate new agencies and operators of the State into the ANCT, with the aim of increasing the rationalisation of the functioning of the State. This would save time and avoid multiplying texts, as was the case recently, with the creation in 2016 of the Agence française pour la biodiversité and, in 2019, of the Office français de la biodiversité. Another key issue is the simplification of standards and contracting. However, it is essential for the day-to-day management of smaller communities and for the readability of our public policies by our fellow citizens. Finally, the question of the funding of the Agency and the resources allocated to its actions remains outstanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u197	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u198	Thank you! No additional funding is foreseen for the new agency, which will have to do more and meet the expectations of local elected officials with constant means. Of course, we hope for new funding for the territories, especially for rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, you will therefore find that, given the weaknesses of the proposals contained in this text, the original ambition of the draft is disappointed. The operational nature of the future agency is not obvious. However, this bill is a good start. We have to give the ANC his chance. However, further progress should be made in the coming years in order to achieve a genuine one-stop shop, simplify standards for communities by experimenting with derogations and integrate other State operators working in the same field of competence into the ANCT. Therefore, the evaluation of the Agency's activities will be essential; This will make it possible to judge its real usefulness. In particular, we will ensure that the cities are not the only beneficiaries of its existence and that the territories occupy their full place, in line with their needs. We will be very vigilant on this point, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u199	[[Smile]] She's shaking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u200	Especially since we too will be vigilant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u201	Despite the questions that remain, we therefore believe that the creation of the Agency should be encouraged. However, we will be vigilant about the implementation of the text and the actions that the Agency will take, as its success will depend very much on daily practice and little on the legislative developments that we could propose. However, Madam Minister, you will be able to count on our good will, on the territories, to promote the action of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. In conclusion, the expectations of elected officials and territories are very strong, as you know. We very much hope that the Agency will solve certain problems in terms of digital, planning or transport. Please be aware that if for any reason the agency's action were to be forced, our disappointment and that of our fellow citizens would be only greater.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u202	They don't care, our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u203	On such a subject, we must not waste time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u204	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u205	The purpose of this bill is to create a new public institution of the State,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u206	A thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u207	...named "National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories". The new agency would have three main tasks, on which we could agree: first, to ensure the implementation of the State's policy on sustainable development and cohesion of the territories, as well as the coordination of the interventions of the State and its public institutions by conducting national territorialised programmes; Second, to ensure the control of certain operations relating to the development of commercial and craft areas, after agreement of the municipalities, public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation or mixed trade unions, as from 1 January 2020; Third, to lead and support digital projects and initiatives developed by public authorities, business networks, associations and individuals. The Agency would focus on areas with demographic, economic or access to public services, and, I repeat, would coordinate the interventions of several existing structures: the National Agency for Urban Renewal, the National Habitat Agency, the Environment and Energy Management Agency, and the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, Environment, Mobility and Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u208	So many script posts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u209	All of this appears to be a rational political choice aimed at improving State intervention. It is important to know what this tool will be used for and, above all, what the strategy, the objective, the vision behind it is for the national territory, its components and its levels of local and democratic administration. What kind of territory, given the current challenges, do we want to build? This is where, from our point of view, it hurts, since through this agency, as our colleague Coquerel has said, we see a change of vision: we move from the triptych, which emerged from the Revolution, communes-departments-state to a new triptych, territories-regions-Europe, which corresponds to the new conception of the relations between the administrative levels, a conception taken over and accentuated by the current majority. We reject this view, because we consider that it further removes citizens from decisions and does not hold local elected officials accountable, who are also partly dispossessed of their powers. The other observation, which we have already called upon you to do, and on which we will continue to do so, is that the services and operators of the state are losing their speed, because of the austerity policies which have been carried out for years and which you have chosen to pursue, and even to speed up. This is particularly the case for the Centre d'études et d'expertise sur les risques, l'environnement, la mobility et l'aménagement, the CEREMA, which is currently undergoing a real dismantling – I will come back to that, figures in support. With local elected officials, without national leadership, even if you claim to respond to it by setting up this agency, without public engineering, even if you say you are going to make it available to them, and without sustainable funding, but on the contrary undergoing a strategy of systematic budget cuts, one wonders how the new agency will function, and what resources, including financial resources, as well as what powers will be given to local elected officials to carry out their projects. In terms of sustainable territorial development, which is one of the Agency's stated ambitions, we believe that there are already many structures. Above all, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition – version The Republic on the move – should play a major, if not central, role in anticipating the necessary, inevitable and urgent adaptations to climate change, which will lead to major changes in our country and will require public investment so that the territories can adapt. However, the situation of this ministry is a good illustration of the situation: it suffers from the austere choices of the majority. As our colleague Mathilde Panot has shown, in his report for opinion on the subject, from 2013 to 2019, 9,000 jobs have been abolished within the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. If we extend the scope of analysis to operators, 13250 jobs have been abolished. We believe that the continuation of such a policy is a danger for the country because it threatens France with the inability to cope with environmental challenges, because of a lack of know-how and technical capacity, the first resources that should be available. Before implementing engineering, people who know the territory and are able to provide a diagnostic on needs are needed. However, while the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition should be central if the majority were genuinely engaged in land-use planning in line with the necessary ecological transition, in 2019 811 full-time equivalents will be abolished, of which 203 will be staff under the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion. On the other hand, CEREMA's grant has decreased by 2.5% each year since 2015, representing an annual amount of EUR 15 million, offset by an increase of EUR 6.2 million in own resources. This resulted in the loss of 300 full-time equivalents and resulted in a drop in investments, which were reduced by 41% between 2015 and 2018. This will have very damaging consequences in the long term for CEREMA, which is one of the institutions supposed to be coordinated by the new agency. In 2019, the movement will continue, with the loss of 100 jobs and a 5% decrease in operating expenses. We think we have to choose. If we want these public institutions and this central ministry to have a capacity for expertise, it is essential to stop the current movement, failing which the teams will no longer have the critical size to inform public action, especially that of local authorities. In view of the treatment given to the Ministry for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, whose central responsibilities are precisely territorial cohesion and sustainable development, we wonder what credibility this new agency, which looks much more like a gas plant than an operational tool, is given to. What credibility can we give to your bill when we find, after two budgetary debates, that you are not prepared to provide the human resources and expertise needed to respond to the challenges of cohesion? That is what a number of our honourable senators have noted, who feared that the agency would be just one more tree in the forest of public institutions and state operators, that it would be at best an empty shell, at worst a "machin", as it has been described on several occasions. That is why we doubt the relevance of this bill. Basically, the majority refuses to consider spatial planning, sustainable development, as it should be, i.e. planning this public policy at the national level, in conjunction with local elected officials, whose resources, including budgetary resources, would be truly strengthened. Similarly, departments and agencies should have the human resources to make the necessary adjustments. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we cannot support this bill. We have tabled a number of amendments, which we hope will be adopted in order to reduce the loopholes we have detected. Unfortunately, however, we fear that this new agency will only be an additional stage of the existing system, an empty shell that you have decided to create, essentially for the sake of communication, but which misses the stakes of our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u210	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u211	You therefore intend to set up a new agency that will contribute to the cohesion of the territory. I would like to begin by complimenting you, Madam rapporteur: you did not use English words in your presentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u212	A good note for Madame de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u213	[[Smile]] I thank you for this because, in what I have been able to read and hear, the "Task Forces" and other "Project Angels" have come back several times, which still bothers me somewhat...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u214	You are the guarantor of the French language in our Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u215	You are therefore merging the CGET, EPARECA and the Digital Agency. First, we consider that the statutory nature of the new agency should be specified and that it should be defined as a public administrative institution. The Agency is targeting its priority action in areas characterized by "difficulties in demographic, economic, social or access to public services", on local and regional authorities which do not have the means of expertise or the financial levers to carry out their projects. The Agency would therefore be available to these communities. It should be made clear in this regard – and we would like to do so – that the municipalities and their groups are explicitly recognised as interlocutors. These local actors would bring their projects back from the ground to the Agency, at the same time as the Agency would continue to ensure the implementation of national territorialised programmes, led to the initiative of the State and affecting the dense living areas of the metropolises as well as the medium-sized cities and their peripheries, towns or rural areas. Large and ambitious program that immediately leaves perplexed! Minister, do you know a mayor who doesn't have an innovative project? Where and at what level could the added value for local people and elected representatives be located? In view of the different types of "difficulties" referred to in Article 1, the spectrum of targeted territories is too broad to truly distinguish which territories you want to give priority to, beyond actions already covered by national programmes. Is this particularly the rural areas in decline, the landlocked territories with low urban mesh size, those with declining production systems – I am thinking in particular of small industries and crafts – or those with a long-standing negative demographic, natural and migratory balance? There is no indication of a territorial orientation to the Agency's action. If you claim that it can thus develop its action in a universal and flexible way, at the service of the actors on the ground, we can tell you that it will act at best with powdering, at worst with questionable efficiency in view of the national programmes it will continue to carry out. Of course, the themes chosen are clearly shared: support for local public services, small businesses and crafts, digital link, ecological transition, housing and travel. However, even if this list is already long, the problems relating to social insecurity, education, associative, sports and cultural animation, or to agricultural and urban land, could have explicitly found their place among the objectives of the local projects to be supported. In short, local actors may rightly question you about the incomplete nature of the agency's priority tasks. The same applies to partners who will be involved in possible accreditation and funding decisions. If you are announcing a budget dedicated to the ANCT in the context of the Finance Bill for 2020, there is no indication that it will go beyond the addition of the resources currently available to the merged institutions. In terms of expertise, first of all, I want to talk about women and men who can help local actors in the field. We defend above all the principle of the status of public-law employees for the staff assigned to these missions. Moreover, as with the other operators of the State and the State itself, we fear the prospects opened up by the Public Action Programme 2022, which proposes a reduction in the number of civil servants. There is a clear antagonism between the intention displayed – expertise in the ability to project on the ground – and the reality that we are already seeing, namely, the low availability of the services of the State and its operators to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u216	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u217	Under such conditions, we fear hasty, technocratic or, on the contrary, sabotaged decisions, in a more or less pronounced rupture with the initial projects of the communes and their groups decided democratically. In purely financial terms, will EPARECA's 20 million euros, the approximately 550 million CGET and the 3.3 billion digital agency be paid in whole or in part to the joint pot of the new agency? If so, how high? Will they be abounded to deal with new projects going up the ground? We have little visibility on this crucial issue. You know another of our concerns: the agreement with third-party operators such as ANAH, ANRU or ADEME will look elsewhere for already tense financing and, for many of them, already contracted. Finally, the governance of the Agency remains marked by the limited confidence you place in the representation of the elected representatives of the territories, both in the diversity of the realities they represent and in their ability to conduct a policy constructively with the State. This is reflected in the composition of the Agency's Board of Directors. Of course, you were obliged to take a political initiative after a sequence in which the power particularly abused local elected officials. We have seen in recent months – and even in recent weeks – that these have been restored in their importance, as they are close and effective in defending and promoting the interests of their citizens. In these circumstances, the construction of a precision tool such as this agency should be cannot be neglected, as the communist senators said at the first reading of this text before the High Assembly, but only if one is truly convinced of its effectiveness. The local elected representatives are in a strong and legitimate expectation of a tool that would allow them to deploy their projects. In this regard, you have an obligation of result – without result, this agency would create the worst disappointments. So the discussions that follow will allow us to decide. You will observe that we do not intend to vote at this stage. We trust your ability to listen. I imagine that you will be able to take into account the many amendments that we will be defending on these benches in order to make progress on the crucial questions posed by the creation of this agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u218	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u219	France with two speeds, fractured or in pieces, metropolises against rurality and suburbs, winners against losers of globalization. Studies have been increasing in recent months to attempt to analyse the movement of yellow vests, but also, more broadly, to highlight the widening gaps between territories and between the French. This fact, the elected officials on the ground – especially in the countryside and suburbs – have been doing so for many years, who are in contact with our fellow citizens and who deserve to be listened to and considered. Nor should the social dimension and the prevalence of issues relating to living standards be avoided. This dimension is mixed with the feeling of relegation or abandonment that goes through entire parts of our country, inciting the growing distrust of citizens and elected officials against the state and elites. Some territories are landlocked due to poor transport infrastructure. Medical desertification is progressing everywhere. Medium towns and towns-centres are devitalizing. Difficulties in accessing mobile, high-speed and very high-speed telephony limit isolation. Public services and the establishment of the State are increasingly moving away. This raises questions about our planning policy, specifically the role of the State in this policy. For a long time, things were simple: the state and its armed arm, the DATAR – the Interdepartmental Delegation for Regional Planning and Attractiveness – decided and stewardship followed. The institutional landscape and expectations of our citizens have changed. In order to paraphrase François Mitterrand's famous quote, France needed a strong and centralized planning policy in order to do so, but today it needs a decentralised planning policy in order not to get rid of it. It is therefore important to rethink the action and place of the State and its too many agencies. The relationship with local and regional authorities must also be recast, as they are the main players in the planning process. These communities and, more broadly, the living forces are filled with creative energy and are brimming with intelligence and talent that, despite the obstacles, are undertaking and innovating. We must therefore support them. On the basis of these immense expectations, the announcements made by the President of the Republic at the first National Conference of the Territories gave rise to hope. He referred to the creation of a national territorial cohesion agency, which would be "to work directly with the regions because it is not a matter of recentralizing what has been given to certain communities." It would be a "new type" agency, which "thinks of the support, in particular, of the necessary public engineering in rural areas and in the most peripheral areas, and which creates a logic of one-stop shops and simplification of projects for rural areas, medium-sized cities in difficulty". Then came the time for the implementation of this commitment, and ambition has gradually regressed. It was not until April 2018 that the Prime Minister appointed Prefect Morvan, whom I greet, Commissioner General for Equality of the Territories and forerunner of the future agency. In the meantime, noting the collapse of this project, legislative proposals have been tabled. I would of course like to quote that of the chairman of my group, Philippe Vigier, who was tabled in October 2017; As too many non-majority texts were swept away by a procedural motion, it could have been enriched by the parliamentary shuttle, which would have saved us valuable time. But this is how the new world goes. Nor do I forget the Government's attempt, during the discussion of Bill ELAN, to legislate by order to create this agency. Let us say it unambiguously, divergences within the executive are at the origin of this slowness. They also explain that the text we are debating today is of parliamentary origin. We are grateful to our colleagues in the RDSE Group – the European Democratic and Social Rally – for taking this initiative, even though we must acknowledge that they have been able to benefit from government support. In this way, the genesis of this text allows us to appreciate its contours. First of all, we are pleased that this agency does not add to the complexity of the French administrative meccano – on the contrary, it brings together three agencies and services. It should be noted, however, that only EPARECA will be dissolved. I would add that there are still areas of shadow as to which directions within the CETG will not be affected by the merger. As we pointed out in committee, it is important that the Digital Agency joins the ANC right from its inception. Indeed, the pregnancy of questions relating to digital planning, but also to mobile telephony, absent from the original text, requires that these issues be understood from the point of view of the cohesion of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u221	The ANCT is often presented as responding to a one-stop-shop logic. This is crucial when we know the difficulties that elected officials face in bringing their projects to a successful conclusion in the face of the proliferation of interlocutors. In our view, a modern planning policy must focus on land projects and abandon the logic of calls for projects, which are too central and often reward the same communities – those with appropriate engineering. Finally, it is not a matter of reviving ATESAT – the technical assistance provided by the State for reasons of solidarity and spatial planning – but of rethinking the advisory missions in public engineering for the communities. However, questions remain: will the Agency be able to meet the real needs of the territories? Will it be an instrument of the new act of decentralization that we call for? First of all, I want to refer to the definition of priority territories, observing that this text mentions only once the city's policy, added by way of amendment in committee, as if it were a blind spot, even though it is one of the main tasks of the CGET. In order not to oppose the territories, the agency must target all those who, faced with situations of fragility, require its action: rural, peri-urban, island, mountain and ultra-marine areas, and therefore also, of course, urban areas in difficulty. Another surprise is that there is no proposal in the Borloo report, which confirms your willingness to bury it. We will therefore propose to add some of its recommendations by way of amendment. We also have reservations about the organization of the agency. Article 6b provides that the latter shall enter into multi-annual agreements with other operators; This is where the simplification effort is significantly affected. Would it not be more ambitious – even if I know that this proposal can be discussed – to build a truly large single agency, which would bring together ANAH, ANRU, ADEME and CEREMA, and even to ARCEP, the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications and Posts? As I have already mentioned, there are now two separate steering committees in territories in the ANRU area concerned by the core city action programme, which will file files tomorrow, for the operation, with the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories and, for the investment, with the ANRU – because it will retain, according to the text, the management of urban renewal, while the ANC will recover the rights of the CGET. Unless the management of urban renewal is considered to be exclusively the responsibility of the ANC, ANRU or CGET, two files will be required. Do you call this the simplification of the territorial organisation? I don't think that's the way it goes. In the area of governance, the commission returned to the drafting of the Senate, which proposed a balance, within the board of directors, between, on the one hand, the representation of the State and its operators, and, on the other hand, the representatives of the communities – who, let us recall, are heavily involved in the financing of operations. We will propose tangible improvements, to which you, Minister, can only be sensitive, which come from this land of local elected representatives. We will also propose, in the same spirit, that the Director General be appointed by the Board of Directors, because we know well – I can testify in this regard to my experience as Chairman of the ANRU – that it is he who will manage it on a daily basis. The situation is even more serious in the Territorial Action Committee, where communities are not represented, when we know that it will be the main place of decision-making. The same reservations can be made for the departmental variations of the agency. In the current drafting, the prefect of department would be the territorial delegate. Rather, we propose shared governance involving communities on an equal footing. Finally, there is no part of this text: funding. Indeed, it is assumed that the ANCT will benefit from no more resources than it currently has, which is likely to undermine the stated ambition. I must express to you an even greater concern, which I have expressed in committee: as has been said, the ANC will enter into multi-annual agreements with several operators, including ANRU. The elected representatives of the territories governed by the city's policy fear that the ANRU's funding will thus be devoted to purposes other than urban renewal. However, you reassured us in committee, and I assume you will do so again in a public meeting. These are the expectations of our group, our reserves and the avenues for improvement that we offer for greater efficiency and proximity. [[Applause on the benches of the Libertés et territoires group]] Receiving the representatives of the departments, at the end of February, the President of the Republic said: "I say yes for decentralization, but then we really have to do it," calling for "more clarity" and "more responsibility". We have the opportunity to do it with the ANC. Let us therefore trust the collective intelligence of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u222	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1171.u223	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Following the discussion of the proposal for a law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories and the proposal for an organic law on the appointment of the Director General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. The meeting is adjourned.
