ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u1	The next item is the question to the Government. Before calling the first question, I would like to inform you that the public vote on the draft law on the competences of the European community of Alsace will take place immediately after the answer to the last question. I shall suspend the sitting after the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u2	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u3	Mr Prime Minister, 197 jobs at the Intermarché de Saint-Dié-des-Vosges base, 21 in the automobile industry of the Inteva group, 4 in a beauty institute of a national group: I have the great disappointment to tell you that these are not job creations announced this week, but rather abolitions, in a territory where the unemployment rate is 11.5 %. This is the reality of a dynamic Vosges employment pool. Mr Prime Minister, after the planned failure of the negotiations with the social partners, seriously undermining the social dialogue, the management paritarianism and the role of Parliament, the reform of unemployment insurance does not meet the challenges and is not up to the ambitions of the territories and businesses. Executives have become an accounting adjustment variable for the unemployment insurance deficit – an inappropriate term since it is no longer insurable, but financed by tax. Changes in the rules on unemployment compensation with regard to working time are responsible decisions, but why punish job seekers with skills but little or no qualification? The requalification or conversion routes are long, but effective. Why punish companies that seek qualified personnel but do not find them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u4	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u5	Many short contracts are necessary for the smooth running of companies and can be useful in the training paths of employees. Prime Minister, you have chosen to index certain professional branches,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u6	Agri-food, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u7	... but why have we deliberately excluded from this reform, for example, the intermittents of the spectacle or the public service, which is not exempt from reproach in the management of its employment contracts? You correctly indicate your willingness to accompany job seekers and, at the same time, reduce the employment area budget by €135 million over the last two years. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, the French aspire to work and live from their work. Therefore, why does the Government, rather than taking punitive measures, not accompany enterprises in their development, which is a source of wealth and job creation? This is how mass unemployment can be eliminated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u8	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u9	Mr President, I will take up some of the many questions you have asked. First of all, I am obviously wrong about what you said: the rights of the social partners and Members of Parliament are by no means denied. I would remind you that under the law passed in this House, the social partners define the rules for unemployment insurance; If they fail to reach an agreement, it is up to the state to assume its responsibilities. This is what we are doing, in strict compliance with the law, since the negotiations initiated by the social partners over the last five months have not been successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u10	This is the first time since 1982!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u11	We regret this situation, which is uncommon and requires the State to assume its responsibilities. In particular, you refer to short contracts. I find it hard to believe, to know you, that you are proposing the status quo in a context of high unemployment and precariousness. We want to tackle, in particular, the explosion of precariousness, which is a specifically French evil: nine out of ten jobs, today, are in short contracts, seven out of ten in contracts of one month or less, and one out of three in contracts of one day or less. We have reinvented day labourers in our country, which is not only socially unacceptable, but also, in my view, an economic error. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the work orders, which you voted for, we gave companies the opportunity to negotiate a better flexibility of work all year round. They no longer need to outsource this excessive flexibility. However, in the same sector of activity, some companies rely heavily on precarious jobs, have made them a form of management, while others do not. Our goal is to encourage the most socially and economically responsible behaviour. The responsibility also lies in not weighing these short contracts on the future. However, they contribute $9 billion to the annual unemployment insurance deficit. They are socially, economically dangerous and endanger our system. I don't think you're proposing the status quo.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u12	Mrs. Nathalie Sarles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u13	Mr. Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, early this morning, was released the first report of the High Council for Climate. The existence of this body, created on the basis of the British and Scandinavian model, will be enshrined in the law by the text on energy and climate, which we will begin to examine this afternoon. In the face of the climate emergency, this body, composed of experts and scientists, will inform us about the consequences of the various policies carried out. His annual report, presented to our assembly and the Senate, will contain recommendations and recommendations, to which the Government will have to respond. In addition to the fact that we are lagging behind in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in the areas of transport and construction, the first report stresses the need to bring different policies into line with the climate challenge: structural changes to be carried out in our economy, compatibility of laws and major national projects with the National Low Carbon Strategy and better articulation of this Strategy at all territorial levels. Multi-annual energy programming, which will be adopted in the autumn, is ambitious: it sets a precise, credible and quantified trajectory for the first time. It is based on three pillars: the strengthening of energy savings, the massive development of renewable energy and the rebalancing of the energy mix. We are of course aware that energy and climate strategy are national issues that go beyond our borders. However, the implementation of programming can only be local. The report is very clear on this point: "Climate-air-energy planning at the regional and sub-regional levels are key elements in organising the contribution of territorial policies (...)". [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] How can you respond, Minister of State, to this recommendation of the High Council for Climate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u14	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the FI and GDR groups brandish signs]] The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. Ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 9 of our Rules of Procedure, it is forbidden to brand such posters. I ask you to stop this ride immediately. Immediately!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u15	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I hope that we will not be interrupted in our overall climate mobilization momentum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u16	He doesn't need this to be broken!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u17	Zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u18	I know that the National Assembly, particularly its majority, has been constantly mobilised for the climate since 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u19	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u20	25,000 more trucks on the roads with the removal of the "early train"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u21	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. André Chassaigne rose and applauded ironically]] It is not by brandishing slogans and signs that we will act, but by making choices, making decisions and deploying resources. I know only too well the damage of the ecology of the declaration, of the proclamation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u22	Expert word!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u23	...of the contestation and the opposition, which leads to nothing! There's only one valuable ecology, that of action! You recalled, Mrs. Sarles, it was we who wanted to create a High Council for Climate; It was we who wanted him to be independent – his first report shows that he is. We wanted to mobilize scientists to ensure that the state of climate science in our country is accessible to all French people and to all those responsible at least once a year. As you know, there is also an Ecological Defence Council,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u24	All the Theodule committees!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u25	...which mobilizes all the ministries. We will mobilize citizens with the civil convention of action for the climate. In addition, you passed the law of 30 December 2017 putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and laying down various provisions relating to energy and the environment, which allowed me to refuse fifty applications for oil exploitation in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u26	And buy even more oil abroad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u27	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This is a very strong choice for the climate, which very few countries have made! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Another very strong choice is the closure of coal-fired power stations: I would like to receive support from the left side of the House when I close coal-fired power stations on behalf of the Government, but I am not surprised at your protests since you voted against them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u28	What about the trucks on the roads?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u29	That is a few examples of our policy, which we will discuss in the debate on the energy and climate bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u30	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u31	Mr. Minister of the Interior, there is now a palpable malaise in the population. Inexorably, the distance increases with the forces of law and order: incomprehension grows in the face of a often disproportionate use of force. Within the police and gendarmerie forces, too, there is doubt as to the meaning of their commitment. Thus, on 23 March, during which Geneviève Legay was wounded, a gendarmerie captain, together with his squadron, took the decision not to obey the manoeuvring of charge decided by the police commissioner running the device. According to him, the orders received were "disproportionate to the threat." In Nantes, on 21 June, in a panic movement following the intervention of the police, fourteen people fell into the Loire. At this time, a man is still missing. The regional secretary of the SGP Police union denounced a "scandal intervention" and questioned its necessity. In Seine-Saint-Denis, on 22 June, a 17-year-old was reportedly hit with scissors at the throat of a LAC patrol chief during an identity check. In Montpellier, on 15 June, Sabine, a teacher who was tolling against the Blanquer law, was arrested during a toll action organized by yellow vests. In the current context, this repressive policy, meaningless, leads the population to no longer know what to do to be heard. There are also voices to condemn this repeated violence, particularly against demonstrators. Michelle Bachelet, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, denounced in March the excessive use of force by law enforcement officials, as did Amnesty International. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Minister, are you aware that this situation leads to a growing divide between the population and the police, from which no one will come out winning? What do you propose to do about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u32	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u33	Do not seek to oppose the police against the gendarmes and the internal security forces between them; They are fully mobilized at every moment in our country. Through the four examples you have given, we can see the difficulty of exercising, which can lead to mistakes. I have always said this: when mistakes are committed, the General Inspection of the National Gendarmerie – IGGN – or the General Inspection of the National Police – IGPN – are seized to investigate, under the authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The security forces are victims every day and every night of extremely violent attacks, so do not try to oppose the French to the forces of law and order! Contrary to what you said, all the indicators show that the French are very attached to their forces of law and order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u34	Yes, but not to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u35	There are times when there is a real need to consider the processes of intervention. This was the case in Nantes, because the events of this weekend raise questions. So, as of Monday, I seized the IGPN to understand what had happened. You mentioned it, and I would like to insist on it since the context is tense, a young man has disappeared. Perhaps this disappearance is linked to a police intervention, on which I asked the police for clarification. It is important to note that, after four o'clock in the morning, eleven people, according to the information given to me, and not fourteen, fell into the Loire. The site is particularly dangerous, so that security measures have been deployed since 2009, which include interventions, some of which were triggered during the night of Friday to Saturday: for example, firefighters have saved seven people and Atlantic boating safety has saved four people. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] First of all, I have a thought for the family of this missing young man, who is obviously worried. An administrative investigation under the authority of the IGPN and a judicial investigation have been opened: we must shed all light on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u36	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u37	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. The report released this morning by the High Climate Council confirms the shortcomings of our policy on combating global warming, while the urgency requires us to act decisively. The same applies to marine pollution. Many reports – the WWF has recently published one – refer to the constitution of real "plastic islands". Of the 27 million tonnes of plastic waste produced each year in Europe, only one third is recycled. In the Mediterranean, the situation is even more dramatic: 1% of the world's waters account for 7% of the microplastics found there. Biodiversity is directly at risk. Public health is also important, as microplastics eventually enter the food chain. This is the case in the middle of the Pelagos Sanctuary, close to the Cap Corse and Agriate Marine Natural Park. In addition, this area experienced significant oil pollution last October. You then measured the scale of the disaster, Minister of State. There is an urgent need to strengthen the capacity to combat all forms of pollution in this particularly busy area. I've asked you several times. I also drew your attention to the Corsican Blue Project. My question is twofold. In addition to the largely inadequate provisions of the future circular economy bill, what measures does the Government intend to take to limit plastic production and discharge at sea? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] What means of prevention and control are specifically envisaged in the Corsica Canal, in agreement with the riparian communities and, necessarily, with the Corsican community?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u38	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u39	Mr Castellani, as you may know, the Prime Minister will soon be visiting Corsica. I'll go with him. We will work, as you wish, with the Corsican elected representatives on the environmental issues, particularly energy, that they are facing. With regard to safety at sea – the Mediterranean is more fragile than the others because of its closed nature – we have taken several measures following the accident you mentioned. The collision between two commercial ships, Virginia and Ulysses, a few kilometres north of Cape Corsica, caused oil pollution. We learned the lessons. I wanted to go personally to the Var, with the maritime prefect of the Mediterranean – which you also met, I believe – to learn all the lessons from it. This will result in further concrete decisions, in order to better regulate the movement of ships along the coast of Corsica. With regard to plastic pollution, France, under the leadership of Brune Poirson, has done a great deal in European bodies to ensure that certain single-use plastic objects are banned. They will. We have led and won this European battle: by 2021, more than a dozen single-use plastic objects – those that pollute rivers, rivers and finally marine environments – will be banned. In addition, we aim at the development of plastics recycling. We have launched a national pact on plastic packaging with the companies concerned, on the basis of a voluntary commitment. In addition, we are preparing, with Brune Poirson, a bill that will soon be presented to the Council of Ministers and discussed in Parliament in the fall. In particular, the aim will be to achieve the target of 100% recycled plastic, i.e. 100% collected plastic, notably through the deposit box. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds]] For us, combating plastic pollution is an obvious and a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u40	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u41	Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, that the construction of a wind farm be authorized against the opinion of twenty-eight municipal councils on thirty-one concerned, of which – listen carefully! – that of the municipality envisaged for its establishment, what do you call it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u42	A scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u43	Scorn? A lack of respect for the elected representatives of the Republic? A forceful passage?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u44	A little at a time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LR groups as well as among non-attached Members]] If the start of my question is a little direct – and I would be grateful if you would excuse me – it is because the former mayor I am cannot imagine that wind masts are being installed at a height of nearly 100 metres against the will of the people and their local elected representatives. They're the first hit, but they're not heard! They give negative opinions, but no matter what, authorizations are granted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u47	Minister of State, I share your desire to develop renewable energies, but not at any price or at any rate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u48	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LR groups as well as among non-attached Members]] Not against local elected officials or in anarchy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u50	Not against the sailors-fishers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u51	Some territories are at saturation, including my department of the Somme, champion of France in terms of installed wind power, and yellow jersey in terms of the plotting of the territory! [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LR groups as well as among non-attached Members]] The Government wants to restore confidence with local elected officials? Here is a concrete case of school: propose to ensure that an installation of wind turbines can be made, first, only with the consent of the municipal council of the municipality directly concerned,... ...which, moreover, seems to me to be a minimum, and, secondly, with a favourable majority of neighbouring municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u52	Imagine if we did the same with high-voltage lines!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u53	[[Same movements]] Let us not misunderstand, the purpose of my question is not to revive an umpteenth debate for or against wind energy, but to put on the table the subject of the real power of local elected representatives, faced with developments whose impact on their territory is enormous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u54	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u55	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u56	Minister of Taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u57	Mr Demilly, this is a concrete example of the difficulties in reconciling the general interest and the particular interests. As long as we stick to speeches and statements, everyone converges to say that we need to develop renewable energies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u58	And in Landivisiau, how's it going?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u59	[["Yes! » on the benches of the GDR group]] [["Yes! » on the benches of the GDR group]] ... in order to obtain clean and decarbonated energy, and this is the case with wind energy; Everyone converges – you understand, no doubt – to say that we need to develop an industrial sector that creates jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u60	Yes, but not in your territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u61	This is the case for the wind industry in France, both on land and at sea. Of course, everything is much more complicated when you go down to the local level, at the level of particular interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u62	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u63	At the others, not at my house!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u64	That's normal. It is the life of a country that has an energy strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u65	A strategy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u66	We have a national energy strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u67	It can't be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u68	Unless it is about sacrificing the public service of energy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u69	Energy policy will remain national. Otherwise, everyone would want electricity, but no one would want a power generation unit in their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u70	There are still limits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u71	So start with yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u72	Set an example!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u73	Give me a list of municipalities ready to host power plants such as large nuclear power plants and thermal power plants! All electricity generation projects are contested! I will take another example, that of the electric towers. France has 8000 wind turbine masts in France and 200000 electric towers. With your reasoning, we could decide that each municipality will decide whether or not it agrees to have an electric tower on its territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u74	They're not 100 meters high! This answer is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u75	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups.– Paul Molac also applauds]] You can imagine the head of our country's power supply! That's not possible. We have to shoulder our responsibilities. Rules exist – we don't implement wind turbines like that – and they are respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u76	Mr. Éric Poulliat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u77	Mr. Minister of the Interior, my colleague Eric Diard and I presented today, to our colleagues in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, our information report on public services in the face of radicalisation. This mission is taking place in a post-attack context that has profoundly affected our fellow citizens. Our report aims to question all public services about their ability to prevent, detect or punish radicalisation, i.e. the use of violent action in the name of a political or religious ideology. First of all, I would like to point out that the findings of our fact-finding mission reveal a generally positive record in many public services, particularly in the most sensitive sectors – internal security forces, military forces, justice, national education. Here, the radicalisation of agents seems to remain generally limited, and to be followed up in depth, with the active support of the Interdepartmental Committee for the Prevention of Delinquency and Radicalisation – CIPDR. I would also like to highlight the usefulness of a number of recognised tools, such as the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism – SILT – voted in 2017, which was welcomed by representatives of the various public services during the hearings; the creation of the National Service for Administrative Security Investigations – SNEAS –, investigations whose results are now recognized by the services; the circular of 13 November 2018 which created a real relationship of trust with local elected officials in security matters; progress, finally, in the services of national education: there is today a radicalisation referent in each academy and in each departmental service. I would like to highlight the investment of their staff, who have been able to change their culture and adapt. But our report also points to areas of shadow on which I would particularly like to call your vigilance: in prisons, the detection of the radicalisation of ordinary prisoners; in public transport, the question of subcontractors and interim workers; in the world of public health, in the world of our universities, and, above all, in the sports sector. So what do you think, Minister, about the expansion of the skills of the NSEAS, particularly with regard to agents in contact with vulnerable people or with our young people? Are you considering new measures to strengthen the dissemination of a common culture of prevention and detection?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u78	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u79	First of all, I would like to thank you for the quality of this work, which, together with your colleague Éric Diard, gives us an opportunity to take stock of an essential subject, which is mobilising us all: the phenomenon of radicalisation which has emerged in public services, some of which, as you said, are particularly sensitive, given the risks that radicalisation could entail. I would like to respond immediately to the statement contained in your report, and reiterated in your question, that radicalisation in public services is extremely limited. Indeed, since 2014, several devices have been created to combat radicalisation, to identify the risk and to put in place devices, devices that we have greatly amplified by new measures, such as the SILT law, that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u80	We see the result!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u81	As you said, it deals with agents carrying out a mission in the fields of security, sovereignty or defence, agents that show signs of radicalisation and which we must therefore follow. Special attention is also needed in the school accompaniment community. You referred to the circular that I signed at the end of last year, in order to give the mayors, the presidents of public institutions for inter-communal cooperation and the presidents of departments the information necessary to enable them to act on this matter. As you said, we need to be very vigilant in all sectors. We are particularly attentive, with the guard of the seals, to radicalization in prison. It exists, and we have developed several mechanisms to respond to it. I can tell you that communications between our security services, in a broad sense, are constant, because we need to be very vigilant on this point, as well as for all open circles. In the field of sport, radicalisation is indeed possible. To combat this phenomenon, we have therefore appointed a liaison officer within the Ministry of Sports. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I hope that this mobilization will be constantly supported by each and every one of us. It's about the security of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u82	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u83	Madam Minister responsible for Transport, the decision of the French Waterways – VNF – to withdraw from part of the river network whose potential is catalogued as insufficient raises, once again, the question of the importance that your Government attaches to our rural territories. Some waterways in these territories, mostly in the north-eastern quarter of France, are threatened, like the Ardennes Canal and part of the Meuse, which are nevertheless essential routes for the Ardennes territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u84	And for sustainable development!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u85	The members of the Government who came to the Ardennes last March, with great publicity, to sign a development pact highlighting this asset, cannot today act as if the decision of VNF did not exist. In fact, the Government is imposing on VNF, whose budget is theoretically increasing, measures of massive reduction of its staff and the abandonment of small channels considered unprofitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u86	Absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u87	[["Unfortunate! » on the benches of the LR group]] Since April, Madam Minister, I have been writing to you, I have been calling your office, I have been calling you during the question-and-answer sessions, without ever getting any answer from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u88	Inadmissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u89	[["Exactly! » on the SOC benches]] My request is, however, legitimate: a meeting with all the elected representatives and actors in the dossier, who also ask you. Your silence is stunning. Despite my many years of experience as an elected official, including in the opposition, this is the first time that I have seen such contempt for parliamentarians who are soliciting members of your Government. On the eve of the municipal elections, you are in the midst of seduction with the mayors and local elected officials. Know that all the communes around these rivers are in revolt! [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] Can you finally tell me, Madam Minister, how you intend to bring the real solutions to ensure that VNF's missions continue in these territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u90	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u91	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You may not have escaped that I had to spend a month in this House. So I can assure you that I wasn't doing anything there. As I have had the opportunity to tell you, Member, no decision has been taken by VNF, and no plan has been adopted to denavigate our river system. The Ardennes Canal is indeed in poor condition, and decisions will have to be taken to ensure its sustainability. We will take stock tomorrow at my ministry with Routes navigable de France, before meeting the elected representatives. It seems to me a good method to study the files before discussing it with the elected ones. These decisions will have to be taken with local authorities, taking into account the potential of this channel for the territory, whether in terms of transport or tourism, but also, more generally, the environmental and economic issues associated with this channel. I would stress that any decision will be taken in consultation with the elected representatives, depending on the projects concerned and the partnerships proposed. The situation of this canal – we have discussed it extensively in recent weeks on these banks – highlights the under-maintenance of our river network, as well as our rail network and our road network.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u92	For thirty years...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u93	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is the meaning of the Government's policy: to give priority to the maintenance and modernization of existing networks. This is the meaning of infrastructure programming in the mobility guidance law, which we debated and which was adopted by your assembly on 18 June. The funding for river transport will increase by 40%, and I am confident that, thanks to this unprecedented effort and the commitment of the communities, we will ensure the sustainability of our river system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u94	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u95	Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, the draft order to limit the compensation of borrowers contesting in court the calculation of their interest rates by banks or credit agencies provokes protests from consumer associations, as well as numerous criticisms from the specialized press. Since 2016, the real estate loan offer must display the overall effective annual rate – TAEG – which includes not only interest, but also taxes, fees, remuneration and other commissions, as well as insurance. The calculation of this rate is complex, but it is the only criterion that allows the borrower to compare two offers, and thus to compete, while protecting against usurious rates. Many contracts would thus be affected by these errors in favour of the bank, with, for example, the absence of cost integration, which is mandatory. In recent years, some 15,000 borrowers have initiated legal proceedings against their banks. Thousands of complainants were successful, and thus a significant decrease in the cost of their loan since the judge may decide to cancel all or part of the interest. The 2016 Ordinance provided for dissuasive penalties for establishments in order to compel them to comply with legal obligations and thereby protect the consumer. However, according to your draft order, Minister, if the judge acknowledges a bank fault, the maximum compensation of the client will be limited to 30% of the interest expense only; In addition, the measure would be retroactive, removing the right of injured borrowers to compensation in ongoing cases. In a context of heightened tensions where our fellow citizens expect just and protective measures from us, the MODEM and related group reaffirms the need for this order to strike a fair balance between the interests of consumers and those of banking and credit institutions. Minister, can you tell us what is happening to this project in the light of the consultations that you are currently conducting?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u96	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u97	Let me apologise for the absence of Mr Bruno Le Maire, who is currently on an official trip to Japan. On the basis of the authorization given to it by article 55 of the Act for a State in the service of a trust company, the Government is working on a draft order harmonizing the civil sanctions applicable when the overall effective rate applicable to bank loans is erroneous or absent from the credit agreement. This reform, which follows on from a report by Emmanuel Constans, aims to regulate the sanctioning power of the civil judge. The policy of sanctioning the courts in this area is, in fact, marked by a certain heterogeneity, which could sometimes lead to the imposition of sanctions which may have appeared important, for example the complete revocation of the bank's right to interest. An initial version of the draft order, which was subject to consultation, proposed that the civil penalty be capped at 30% of the interest, as you mentioned. This would have allowed harmonisation with the sanction applicable in the event of error or omission in the pre-contractual credit documentation. However, the consultation conducted by the Government has shown that it is difficult to set such a ceiling because of possible adverse effects. For some, this ceiling could have limited the deterrent nature of the sanction imposed by the judge and, as a result, the protection offered to the consumer. Others were concerned that the ceiling might turn into a scale applied almost automatically by the judge. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] At the end of the consultation, the Government finally proposes not to set a sanction ceiling. The order, which is in the process of being drafted, will, however, make a useful modernization of the sanctioning mechanism for such errors, in particular by providing that the sanction must be proportionate to the actual damage suffered by the borrower.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u98	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u99	Prime Minister, industry has for many years guaranteed our economic sovereignty. It has made us a great power, with a lot of jobs at the key. However, industry's share of our GDP has only declined to 11%, compared with 22% in Germany, for example. Still today, entire sectors are subject to the logics of the financial markets: the Atlantic shipyards, Renault, Alstom, General Electric, Ascoval, Arjowiggins. Banks are turning away from this sector, and they're pension funds that buy our florets, like Ascoval, bought by Olympus, or General Electric, owned by the US fund Trian Fund Management. We are no longer dealing with industrialists, but with tax lawyers; and we are still undergoing American policy that imposes its laws and economic war on France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u101	Prime Minister, reindustrializing France is first and foremost to preserve the existing one. The workers, from the worker to the engineer, want to project themselves into the future. If capitalism has "been crazy", then we must take the necessary measures! On Saturday, 8,000 people demonstrated their determination against General Electric's social plan, which directly threatens the French production of gas turbines in Belfort. This site is the only one in the world to manufacture nine different turbine segments. We will need it to meet the challenges of climate change! This plan also runs counter to the agreement with the French State of 2014 where it is written – Article 3.4 – that gas turbine activity will be maintained for ten years in Belfort. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] With the loss of such know-how, our entire country would weaken. That is why the Communist deputies solemnly ask you for a moratorium; It is necessary to stop this plan in order to take the time to guarantee the long-term future of the entire French energy sector. It is a matter of national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u102	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u103	In your question, I see two aspects. The first is a declaration of love to the industry. I share it, for many reasons, which relate to the commune where I lived and where I was elected, to some of my professional choices, also the fact that, like you and many others who sit on these benches, I am convinced that part of the power and sovereignty of a State resides in its ability to produce, therefore in a strong, innovative, clean, ambitious industry. I am firmly convinced that a country must have factories. You may recall, honourable Member, that it was a time, not so far away, when it was thought that perhaps a country could guarantee its sovereignty without having any factory. I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u104	It was the time of François Mitterrand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u105	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, and on several benches of the LT group]] I am fully convinced that we must preserve a strong industry in France and Europe. It's not a thin subject. That is why we have adopted a policy which we consider likely to favour industrial establishment in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u106	By increasing the costs of companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u107	This is a fact: for the past two years, investments in industrial enterprises in France have grown as they had never grown in recent years. This is a fact: for the past two years, the industry has been creating net jobs. I am not saying that this is an unsurpassable success, I am not saying that jobs are not being destroyed, but today, in our country, more industrial jobs are being created than they disappear! This is excellent news, and we must continue this trend, as we want our industry to be strong. That is why the President of the Republic has proposed to the social partners, to all the forces of this country, to reflect on a "productive pact 2025". If we want to produce much, we need to see far; If we want to transform our productive apparatus, to adapt it to the demands of our time, to limit its environmental footprint, to ensure that the ecological transition that comes is an opportunity and not a constraint, then we must organize our productive apparatus. That is the purpose of this pact that we are proposing. [[Approvals on GDR benches]] I would be delighted, Mr. Member, if you were involved in its development. I'm sure you'll take your share. The second part of your question concerns General Electric's case. Sales of gas turbines have declined all over the world: the ecological transition is probably beginning to produce its effects, which shows that we need to adapt our industrial appliances. For General Electric employees, this is bad news, terrible news, and you relayed their anger and concerns; I have heard them in your question, and I share them. Our goal is to change the plan proposed by General Electric, which must listen to employees and agree to limit to the maximum reductions in employment. The funds available – and in particular the EUR 50 million recovered by the State – must be used to adapt the industrial tool and to trigger investment projects as quickly as possible to transform the plant to develop jobs in promising sectors, such as aeronautics. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This transition is indispensable, and we will accompany it. We will defend the French industry, because it is a valuable asset to which you, all the Members sitting on these benches and I are attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u108	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u109	Prime Minister, because you have chosen to privatize Aéroports de Paris, questions arise about the future of other French airports, particularly those in the overseas countries. Indeed, the state is the majority shareholder of our ultramarine airports, whose traffic is approximately 8 million passengers per year. In Guyana, local actors are waiting to know whether the State will extend the concessionaire lease of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry ending in 2022. In Reunion, in 2018, it was reported that the state wanted to sell its 60% share, privatizing Roland Garros Airport. Two weeks ago, we were informed that the proposed divestiture would no longer be relevant. In the context and in the light of this contradictory information, there is growing concern, doubt and legitimate doubt. The future of La Réunion and Mayotte will be anchored in the Indian Ocean basin. The air opening on the basin and, in particular, Africa, is therefore a strategic issue. Indeed, Africa is the continent of the future. Growth rates are rising for the East Coast countries: almost 4 per cent in Mozambique and 7 per cent in Tanzania. Overall, the Indian Ocean is a potential area of cooperation with 45 states and 2 billion people. We want international co-development, which certainly involves a necessary risk, for which the State must be at our side. In a 2012 opinion, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council recalled that "Mayotte and La Réunion [...] will only be able to capture an increasing share of these wealth flows if they manage to agree together on a common vision of a shared airspace and maritime area with good infrastructure. [...] These major projects must be [...] supported and considered positively and not fearfully because they participate in the opening up of the territories and their possible development. » Prime Minister, to accompany our ambition of regional cooperation for France, including Réunion and Guyana, can you tell us whether the State intends to divest its shares in our airports?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u110	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u111	Madam Member, since you want a clear answer, no, the state does not intend to get rid of anything, and especially not without consultation with the territories. However, this consultation is not on the agenda. The answer is therefore negative. Why? Because we share exactly the same view of the Overseas Territories. The President of the Republic has announced a great strategy in Indo-Pacific, on which we are working, with all our partners, that you have cited. It is certainly not at this moment that we will be depriving ourselves of the indispensable tools of the ports and airports of our overseas territories in the Indian Ocean, in La Réunion – your territory – or in Mayotte. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to answer the question of a Mayotte senator on the airport infrastructure of Mayotte, which we have already secured and which we will improve under the convergence and transformation contracts regional state, on 8 July next. As far as the airport of La Réunion is concerned, this contract does not contain any particular forecast but, as you know, it is managed very differently. Within the framework of the Overseas Assises, there has been a lot of talk about this marine basin and this wealth for France, to have two territories in this environment. They should enable, in particular for La Réunion, the development of the Indian Ocean. With Madagascar, with Mauritius, with Seychelles, with Mayotte, we can organize a new market on a maritime level, beyond airports. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It should be pointed out here that all the subjects which have been the subject of work with the Ministry of Transport in the framework of the foundations have been included. A number of answers have been provided, which we are implementing, little by little. In a few days we will celebrate the first anniversary of the Blue Book. I believe that we will be able to make a positive assessment of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u112	Mrs Valérie Gomez-Bassac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u113	My question, to which I associate my colleague, Stéphanie Rist, Member of Parliament for Loiret, is addressed to Mr Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister for National Education and Youth. Since the beginning of the week, France has experienced a canicule episode of rare intensity. The maximum peak of this episode is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, June 27, when the examination for the national patent diploma was scheduled to begin. As a research teacher in the south of France, I have unfortunately seen too many students suffer from discomfort during an examination due to heat. The patent is the first national diploma our young people claim, the first leap into the unknown. As a mother, this time I was able to observe old buildings, blinds degraded or absent in colleges, leaving fear of temperatures reaching peaks in examination spaces. In these circumstances, as a Member of Parliament, I can only welcome the decision you have taken to postpone the examination of the patent. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This courageous decision required the mobilization of many people, whom I want to salute: the teachers first of all who prepared our young people for this examination; the staff, then, who made it possible, on a more practical level, to inform this change in very short time and to send their new convocation to the 800,000 young people of third. This postponement will allow candidates to compose in better conditions, and will not penalize students who have been preparing for this exam for many months. [[Same movements]] However, with exceptional decisions, exceptional measures. I would like to hear from you, Minister, on the specific steps you intend to take to ensure that the review is properly conducted. This issue is necessary to reassure our young people, their families and the national education staff, who face this climate hazard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u114	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u115	You said it, and I thank you for it: in exceptional circumstances, exceptional reaction. Indeed, we will face from tomorrow a moment planned by Météo France as particularly difficult. It will be more than 40 degrees in your beautiful department of Var – the temperature will be even higher. And it will be even worse in other French departments. Faced with this forecast, we decided on Monday morning, in agreement with the Prime Minister and in connection with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, to do what had never happened until now – but this is also the first time that such a canicule episode occurs during a school period – namely, to postpone the patent until next week. We already know that on Monday and Tuesday next, the temperature will have fallen quite sharply. This decision was obviously difficult to make, because it has certain consequences in terms of organisation, but we have taken it for the reasons that you have reminded us very well. The health and safety of students is, of course, still our first criterion. That's the one we've got. It is also a question of equality between candidates because the temperature will be very high in some parts of France, less in others. It would have been difficult for many students to pass their tests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u116	[[Smile]] Come to Brittany!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u117	To this end, we decided to give special importance to the special session, the catch-up session, which takes place anyway, but that only students who are ill or faced with a serious problem usually pass. We will be flexible for students who justify special family circumstances. This is an opportunity for me to highlight the sense of public service of the professors of France, who – thank you for saying so – have mobilized for this organization. I know that this delay disturbs the organization of many heads of institutions. However, as you have seen, there is a form of national unity in particular circumstances, which must be stressed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Our country will also have to work to ensure that the school structure is up to these situations in the future. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u118	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u119	[[Applause on the benches of groups LR, LaREM, MODEM, SOC, UDI-I, LT, GDR]] In this period of heat and fire risk, all members of the Republicans Group wish to pay tribute to our firefighters who work daily in the service of the protection of the French. Pay attention to their demands, minister. Safety during the tourist season is an absolutely major issue for the attractiveness of the territories. However, the choices made by the Government in terms of staffing in tourist areas are still very inadequate this year in view of their high potential and the doubling of their population. The Côte d'azur, and more particularly the department of the Alpes-Maritimes, illustrate this difficulty. You have, of course, announced last Friday the arrival of twenty national police officers in Nice, despite the fact that there are more than eighty missing. In addition, we still do not know whether additional seasonal reinforcements will be deployed this summer in the department. Seventeen police officers are missing at the Antibes Juan-les-Pins police station. However, one solution exists: the pooling of police and gendarmerie forces to enable systematic and targeted action in each tourist basin. In fact, while today a mayor can decide, in order to remedy the shortage of staff of the State, that the municipal police participate in public security missions alongside the security forces, the same is not true of the police and gendarmerie forces, which often coexist in the same territory, whether they are located in the police or gendarmerie zone. This is the case with the city of Antibes. However, it would be logical and necessary for their respective actions in tourist areas, at the beginning of the season, to be coordinated and for their means to be engaged simultaneously or jointly, in accordance with the principle of "leader-concurrent", as close as possible to the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, my question will be twofold: do you intend to deploy additional reinforcements in tourist areas, particularly in the Alpes-Maritimes? Are you prepared to introduce a system of agreement between the police and gendarmerie forces for more effective action on the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u120	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u121	Mr President, you know all the attention the Government is paying to the Alpes-Maritimes. I announced, alongside Christian Estrosi last week, the strong commitment of the State to install, in the heart of the prefecture city of Nice, a police hotel on the site of the former hospital Saint-Roch – a project with a total cost of 156 million euros. In more difficult neighbourhoods than others – the Ariane or the Moulins – police reinforcements are planned to improve operational efficiency. I had the pleasure of welcoming nine new police officers to the Moulins district. But your question is more general. First of all, it deals with the organization of our forces, a very interesting subject that we will have to address without excluding any leads. A police union organization is thus considering the merger of the gendarmerie and the police. This is not, in my view, the option that deserves to be debated first, but all ideas need to be discussed. Secondly, with regard to operational organisation, the Alpes-Maritimes are a territory of experimentation and innovation. Currently, security committees bring together mayor and prefect in the main cities – Cannes, Grasse, Cagnes-sur-Mer, Menton, Villeneuve-Loubet – to work on the interoperability of all forces in the logic of the security continuum that we must ensure. If tensions in your department are obvious during the summer season – the Alpes-Maritimes welcome 11 million tourists, half of whom during this period – all of France is confronted with the influx of tourists – fortunately, it is a national pride – both in the gendarmerie and in the police zone. Given the exceptional nature of the tourist influx in the Alpes-Maritimes, I have nevertheless decided to mobilise two additional gendarmerie squadrons, which will accompany the inhabitants but also the visitors throughout the summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u122	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u123	I would like to associate my colleague Stephanie Kerbarh with my question. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, a week ago in Strasbourg, you set up, alongside Mr Jacques Vernier, the steering committee for the packing order. I come from a department, Jura, a pioneer in the sorting and recycling of waste and in which plastic is an essential activity of economic life. The research and state-of-the-art technologies developed there are accompanied by many skilled jobs. The company Hébert in Orgelet thus produces 100 % recyclable packaging in monomaterial, according to an innovative process that it itself has designed – this is an important element because, in order to improve the life cycle of a product, it is preferable to start from the beginning: its design. That does not prevent me from thinking, like you, that plastic pollution is a scourge for the heart of our cities, the bottom of our oceans and the valleys of our countryside. The President of the Republic has set the course from the beginning of his term of office: we must reach 100% recycled plastic by 2025. The first step in achieving this goal is to collect 100% of the same plastic. However, this collection remains highly problematic, especially in large cities. The deposit is a solution, a mechanism that the French know well. It was even one of their daily habits for years with glass bottles. Many of them are nostalgic about this responsible and citizen gesture. You have said, Madam Secretary of State, that you want to find a balance with the companies and local authorities who are concerned, like the SYDOM of Jura – the union for the treatment of household waste in Jura – about possible loss of revenue. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Can you explain to us the contours of this return of the order in France and its consequences for local authorities and our industries?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u124	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u125	As far as plastic is concerned, the Government, with your help – thank you, in advance – has set out three main objectives: first, to remove unnecessary plastics; Then, promote re-use and recycling. We want to improve our recycling performance. It must be recognised that they are far from satisfactory: at best, we manage to collect and recycle 26% of plastic packaging, which is far from our ambitions, which also reflects our dependence on hydrocarbons. Based on this, I have worked with local authorities, citizens and businesses to find ways to improve our performance. It was within the framework of this consultation that the idea of the order emerged. She didn't fall from the sky. It was born out of our poor performance. Moreover, the European Union sets us the target of 90% of plastic bottles collected and recycled by 2029. In addition, the French are in favour of the deposit. According to an FIFG survey, 83% of them are ready to bring back their plastic cans and bottles. That is why I have set up a steering committee, co-chaired by Jacques Vernier, to reflect on the details of the delivery on all packaging – glass, aluminium, plastic. Under the authority of the Prime Minister, I wanted to co-chair this steering committee and I can assure you that no community will be harmed – you can reassure the Jura SYDOM – because the current system must be maintained when it works properly. Some communities are particularly virtuous in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u126	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u127	Madam Minister of Labour, let us say at the outset, we look forward to all those who have been returning to work for the past four years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u128	It's the situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u129	...but, let's say with the same force, if work is a value, precariousness is a pain. Your answer in the Chamber yesterday afternoon shocked us deeply, because your reform of unemployment insurance, guided by the most impoverished prejudices, sometimes even gross lies, is at first a bad way for the most precarious workers. Who are we talking about? One out of every two unemployed people is not compensated and does not give up on the guilty comfort of unemployment benefits, 50% of unemployed people receive less than 860 euros per month, four out of every ten beneficiaries who work live below the poverty line and, if 4% of beneficiaries earn a little more money from unemployment than they do in employment, 40% of those who could earn from employment and benefits do not ask for it. Your reform undermines the paritarianism whose failure you have cynically premeditated, undermines the parliamentary debate which you have decided to avoid, undermines our model of assurance and the principle of deferred wages, undermines the rights rechargeable and, above all, seriously harms the unemployed themselves. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] I am thinking of all those whose rights you are reducing, of those young people who are acting who work less than they would like and who will not be entitled to benefits or to the RSA. I am thinking of these intermittent jobs that chain short contracts – and your reform will not change anything. I am thinking of women who are precarious, part-time, managers under the age of 57. I'm thinking about seasonal workers. Your reform will make 100% losers among the unemployed on whose back you intend to save more than €3 billion. You're not fighting against insecurity, you're fighting against precarious people. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] It is this injustice that, in unison, the social partners denounce, in the indifference of the Government. When, Madam Minister, are you going to hear their protests? When are you going to decide to pick up your copy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u130	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u131	And unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u132	As far as the method is concerned, I would like to point out that a parliamentary debate took place last summer, followed by five months of consultation and negotiations which did not succeed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u133	Lead by a right-wing government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u134	...and then listening in the field. We went to see what was happening on the ground not to impose a reform since the summit, but to propose a text that corresponds to today's reality. We benefit from growth dynamics and many job creations. However, many job seekers are unable to access the labour market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u135	What are you doing then?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u136	That is why our reform has several aspects. You believe in the value of work; So do we. The first principle is that work must always pay more than unemployment – we are going to make sure that it does.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u137	Pick up the SMIC amount!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u138	Secondly, we fight against precariousness, particularly by empowering employers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the SOC group]] Third – I'm surprised you didn't mention it, and I'm proud to be a member of the government that made this choice – we're going to give unprecedented means to support job seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u139	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u140	Because what do job seekers want? As you said, they want to be accompanied and find a job. They do not want to remain beneficiaries of unemployment insurance. They want to find a job.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u141	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u142	Pôle emploi will offer a new offer. I went to Nice the other day to visit an agency that tested it and was able to verify its innovative character. Instead of two 45-minute appointments in the first two months, job seekers will benefit – and this is very concrete for them – from two half-days with workshops designed to avoid the loss of self-confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u143	That's very Parisian! Come and see on the spot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u144	As you know, when you have been unemployed for six months, you lose confidence in yourself and in the labour market. The results are impressive: when the accompaniment is proactive and intensive, the results are much better.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u145	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u146	Baratin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u147	Similarly, we will offer to those who alternate short contracts an unprecedented accompaniment, available even in the evening and at the weekend, in order to take care of people who often cannot be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u148	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u149	The Prime Minister launched a regional mobilization. This morning, he took stock with all the prefects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u150	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u151	The social partners and elected representatives are involved in order to solve the problems of childcare and mobility which prevent the return to employment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, we are working to get job seekers back to work – this is the best way to help them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u152	Before calling the last question, I have the vote announced on the draft law on the competences of the European Community of Alsace in the National Assembly. We will vote immediately after the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u153	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u154	Madam Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination, the precarious situation of women is a reflection of a society that has far from solved the issue of gender inequality. Part-time, underpaid feminized occupations, wage inequality, small pensions, women are the first victims of poverty. And it is an area in which they are particularly affected by the precariousness and working conditions worthy of the last century: that of maids. We see them in our offices every day, without even surprising them. We don't see them. Shifted hours, breaks, access to training remain subjects that deserve to be addressed in order to improve their daily lives. Women account for two thirds of the cleanliness sector. The majority of employees are part-time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u155	We can't hear anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u156	You have to shut up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u157	There are many small jobs in several companies and, at the end of the month, less than 900 euros to survive. You recalled it on Sunday in the columns of a newspaper: the fight for equality between women and men, aims not only to allow women to gain access to responsibilities, but also – and above all – to improve the working conditions of those who cannot be seen, of those who cannot be heard. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] How do you intend to help them and make sure that they are never the women of the shadows again?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u158	By increasing their wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u159	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u160	Madam Member, I begin by commending your long-standing commitment to defending women and their rights in Toulon and throughout your constituency. Thank you for that! In order to answer your question, I do believe that the working conditions of maids are currently too difficult. This profession is highly feminized and precarized. We have a job to do to improve the quality of life at work and the working conditions of these maintenance workers, who are overwhelmingly women, the maids we have heard over the last few weeks, and who contribute very strongly – I must say so – to French hotel excellence. The peculiarity of this profession is that many require to see the product of the work of these women, while demanding never to cross them. This dehumanization of relations no longer seems to me to be tolerable in our time. It is for this reason that I have commissioned a report to the SCEP, the Higher Council for Occupational Equality, a body for social dialogue which brings together representatives of employers' and employees' unions, as well as qualified personalities, to formulate quickly very concrete proposals which improve the working conditions of chamber women, both on the issue of working hours, particularly on a staggered basis, and on the remuneration, the relationship with the modes of care and the consideration to be given to work. Without waiting for the results of this mission, on 3 July I will bring together at the State Secretariat the main federations and agencies that employ these chamberwomen, so that they can share good practices and see how we can benefit from the Government's reforms. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I am thinking of the question of vocational training, which will improve their working conditions, because, as you said, equality between women and men cannot and should not be reserved for women who run businesses or administrations; It must concern the most precarious of us. This is the commitment of the Government: emancipation through work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u161	What about the wages?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u162	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u163	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u164	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 532 Number of votes cast 471 Absolute majority 236 For adoption 441 Against 30
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u165	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u166	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.10 and resumed at 16.30 with Mr Marc Le Fur in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u167	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u168	The next item is the debate on the draft law on energy and climate (No 1908, 2031, 2032, 2063). The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u169	The introduction of a bill is always, for a minister, a particular time. The one submitted to you today has been the subject of a long preparatory work. His discussion, first in the House and then in the Senate, will last a few weeks, but we hope – that is why we wanted it to be picked up – that it will be adopted as soon as possible, because it will allow us not only to reaffirm our ambition to combat the greenhouse effect and climate change, but also to implement the multi-annual energy programming, EPP, which will in a way be applied. It is a feeling – shared, I believe – of responsibility that inspires us when we approach such a debate. First of all, the current heat wave, of which we do not know how long it will last, bears witness: the French are directly confronted with the effects of climate change. Of course, we have experienced such heat episodes in the past, but they are becoming more and more frequent, more important and more intense. This is also the case with other weather events, once considered exceptional and becoming recurrent; I am thinking of the tornadoes, storms and cyclones suffered by our overseas compatriots in particular, or the extremely violent rains, such as those which caused extremely serious damage, including the deaths, in the Aude or in the Var last autumn. Our discussion is also taking place in a context specifically French, even a citizen, that of the protest movement which we experienced at the end of last year and which some have mistakenly wanted to present as an anti-ecological movement. In reality, the so-called "yellow vests" movement reflected an aspiration for better purchasing power, better income, lower taxes and taxes in all areas, in other words greater individual freedom in the face of the accumulation of burdened spending. These include, of course, energy expenditures related to heating and transport, which are, moreover, the two main sources of greenhouse gas emissions. Secondly, the great debate, wanted by the President of the Republic and in which he himself participated on several occasions, in all the regions of France, as well as the deputies and ministers, allowed us to measure how much the French aspire to give their opinion on national policy – which they had never been able to do in this way – and want a stronger ecological action to be carried out. As I recall, almost 75 per cent of the French who participated in the major debate expressed their readiness to act personally in favour of ecology. I must also mention the recent climate petition – never had such a petition collected as many signatures in France – and the manifestations of youth, especially high school and student, in Europe and sometimes beyond, in favour of this beautiful cause of general interest, which is the protection, not of the planet, but of us, human beings, in the face of climate change. Finally, in recent weeks we have learned about the state of science on greenhouse gas emissions in France. The Interprofessional Technical Centre for the Study of Air Pollution has published the figures for 2018, which indicate a 4.2% decrease in greenhouse gas emissions, after several years of increase, notably in 2017. These figures, of course, do not draw any particular glory from them. It is not a question of falling asleep on his laurels, but, on the contrary, of continuing efforts. The High Climate Council, which submitted its report to the Prime Minister last night, on whose side I was in fact, reminds us that, while these emissions declined in 2018 in the housing, office and transport sectors, the results are still insufficient for us to be part of the trajectory of the Paris agreement on climate and the national low-carbon strategy – SNBC – of France, whose respect is necessary if we are to contain warming to 1.5 degrees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u170	The High Council is much more severe than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u171	I believe, for my part, that any ecological policy must be based on this scientific data. In fact, the reality must be viewed in the face, whether the situation is deteriorating or improving. The few progress we are making can be linked, for some, to cyclical effects; I am thinking of heating, 2018 having been rather sweet. On the other hand, in the transport sector, the decline in fuel consumption, for private and commercial vehicles, clearly marks the beginning of a change in the behaviour of French motorists, who use their cars less or who use cars that consume less fuel. Whether it is in the social, economic or, of course, ecological field, we must welcome this dynamic and continue in this direction, because all gain from it: the climate, the French economy, still too dependent on imports of oil and gas – we can now see how much international tensions can weigh on oil prices – but also on households and businesses. Indeed, in October and November last, when the 3.5 million French who are still heating up in fuel oil filled their tank, they found that, for a thousand litres, their bill increased from 750 euros to 1000 euros. This increase was due not to the carbon tax, as some have tried to increase it roughly, but to rising oil prices. In order to guard against these variations, the French must be allowed to free themselves from this dependence on oil. To that end, the State, local authorities and businesses must help them embark on the ecological transition, which will benefit the planet as well as the purse. Over the past two years, a number of important steps have been taken, which are beginning to produce results. First of all, the National Assembly voted, by a fairly broad majority, at the end of 2017, the law putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in our basement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u172	Very good text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u173	It's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u174	We are one of the few countries in the world to have adopted such a text. In the course of the debates, I recall that some people were quite legitimately wondering why they should deprive themselves of a resource that lies under our feet, whether it be shale gas and oil or oil extracted, in a more traditional way, by drilling at sea, such as those that exist off certain overseas territories. In any event, the concrete effect of this law was to refuse more than fifty applications for research or operating permits for 2018 alone. On the other hand, households, particularly the most modest ones, have been able to benefit from aid that has not existed so far. I am thinking in particular of the conversion bonus which, in 2018, allowed 300,000 motorists to buy a less polluting car, which consumes less and which is less expensive to use. In this way, 300,000 old cars have been scrapped, which are among the most greenhouse gas-emitting cars and, let us recall, during this heat wave, which are the most polluting. Again, the community and motorists win. Moreover, the trend continues and is even rising in 2019. We have created a similar device for oil boilers. Private operators approach the people concerned to offer them a unique, turnkey file: they take care of all the steps and the search for aid. Thus, the most modest French can replace their boiler for only one euro! I myself have met a number of households who have benefited from this aid and who have told me that the replacement of their old oil boiler, which pollutes, with an electric heat pump, for example, allows them to reduce their annual heating bill from 1000 to 1500 euros. The number of households benefiting from this aid is already 60000 for the first five months of 2019. Finally, the multi-year energy programming, which the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and I presented at the end of last year, will be implemented through the vote on this bill. It defines, as you know, the French energy strategy for the next ten years and sets out precise paths for each energy production, so as to give visibility to industrialists, investors and to individuals and local authorities. The bill has three objectives. First, it is to allow the publication of the Multiannual Energy Programming which, under the Act of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth, takes the form of a decree. In 2017, my predecessor found that the goal of limiting the share of nuclear power generation to 50% was not achievable. A truth operation was therefore to be carried out; She was. The bill thus sets the new deadline at 2035. If we had wanted to close the nuclear power plants in larger numbers to reach the target in 2025, we would have had to build thermal power plants to take over. However, our strategy will allow the gradual replacement of old nuclear capabilities with renewable energy that is equally decarbonated, clean and economically competitive, since the production costs of solar photovoltaics and wind energy, both land and sea, are decreasing and approaching market prices, requiring less and less subsidies. This bill also seeks to enhance our climate goals and to strengthen the means to achieve them. Even before the text was adopted in the Council of Ministers, some thought it was good to launch a debate around the objective and the very concept of carbon neutrality, which nevertheless served as a reference to the Paris climate agreement. It is true that the Energy Transition Act, adopted in the summer of 2015, did not mention this. But since the Paris Agreement was concluded in December 2015, we are adapting our legislation to this new framework. Our objective is therefore clearly defined and quantified: by 2050, we must no longer emit more greenhouse gases than our forests – and, more generally, all plants – cannot absorb them in France. To achieve this, we will have to divide our greenhouse gas emissions by at least six, compared to 1990 emissions, which serves as the benchmark. In addition, very soon, by the end of the next decade we are proposing to increase the target of reducing fossil energy consumption from 30 to 40 per cent in order to strengthen the fight against climate change. Article 2 provides for the formalization of the establishment of the High Climate Council. We wanted to install the latter without waiting until the end of 2018. It began its work in early 2019 and yesterday issued its first report, the content of which confirms the independence of the institution. We want the HCC to be a sustainable part of our arsenal of climate tools. If you pass this bill, scientific experts will be able, at least once a year, to report on the state of science on the subject. In addition, this text aims to give us the legal and indisputable means of closing the last coal-fired power stations. A few coal-fired power generation units in our territory, to the great astonishment of the French who thought that they had been gone for a long time to survive only beyond the Rhine, in Germany or in Poland. It is true that these countries account for a lot more than at home, but we still have four important ones. They will be closed by 2022, in line with the political objective announced last year, which we have started to think about with the companies, the employees and the territories concerned. I would remind you that these four coal-fired plants emit as much greenhouse gas as 4 million individual cars. That being the case – and the rapporteur knows this only too well because of his election territory, the Gard – we do not intend to close these plants without providing for accompanying. There will be no dry closure, as it may have happened in the past. Many oil-fired power plants have closed in recent years in France without any social or territorial support, which the territories can suffer terribly. Consequently, in addition to the ceiling on the number of hours of operation which will enable coal to be removed from the production of electricity, the draft law provides for specific accompanying arrangements for the employees of these plants, for those of the subcontracting companies and for the territories concerned. Finally, the provisions of this text should enable us to resolve problems that have been left unsolved for too long. For example, the clarification of the provisions on the environmental authority should put an end to the current legal uncertainty, which has led to the proliferation of litigation and has weakened small renewable energy projects, including solar and photovoltaic power. Another problem is that of the provisions on regulated gas tariffs, which you adopted after having discussed at length during the examination of the law, known as the CAPTE, on business growth and transformation. The chairman of the committee remembers that very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u175	I still have an emotional memory of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u176	The Constitutional Council too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u177	The Constitutional Council had subsequently censored these provisions as legislative riders. We are therefore reintegrating them into this text. The third problem is that of regulated electricity tariffs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u178	Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u179	The price increases decided for these tariffs have led to numerous inquiries. If not all of them were in good faith, I acknowledge that the French were legitimately concerned about this, particularly during the last 5.9% increase in the month of June.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u180	This will continue!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u181	At that time, I committed myself to proposing concrete tools to stabilize prices in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u182	All you have to do is lower the VAT!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u183	However, I do not make a false promise. Some say that tomorrow they will shave free and lower all rates. I'd rather be honest. The existing arrangements enable the control of tariff developments by containing increases within reasonable limits. We must stick to the principle of regulated tariffs, which are supposed to cover only the costs of generating electricity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u184	That's not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u185	The text adopted in committee should enable us to meet this objective. I note in passing that the bill has come out enriched by debates in the Committee on Sustainable Development and in the Committee on Economic Affairs. And I welcome the precise and valuable work done by the two rapporteurs, Nathalie Sarles and Anthony Cellier. For months now, their hearings in parallel with their preparatory work, as well as the amendments they have tabled, have improved the text. In committee, MEPs have almost unanimously introduced the concept of environmental and climate emergency. It makes sense only because it is part of a bill that defines objectives, the means of achieving them being determined by multi-annual energy programming. We could have enjoyed it by simply proclaiming a climate and ecological emergency, but that would have had no effect – if not an announcement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u186	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u187	On the contrary, I want to transform our energy policy in order to achieve concrete effects, without, however, lying to the French about the changes that this is likely to bring about in our production methods or even in our lifestyles. It is in fact sometimes the same who invoke the ecological and climate emergency but then, by demagogy, hurry to say to the employees, consumers or citizens that nothing will change as far as they are concerned! In reality, change must be progressive, but profound and lasting, and we must all work on it. Statements will not be enough to succeed; concrete measures are needed. The examination in committee also clarified the concept of carbon neutrality and the tasks of the High Climate Council and consolidated the support arrangements for employees in the territories concerned by the closures of coal-fired power plants. In addition, in connection with the Government, commendable measures have been adopted to strengthen the fight against thermal colanders. First of all, they make it possible to consider that certain very energy-intensive dwellings fall within the scope of the decree of 9 March 2017 on the characteristics of decent housing, known as "decency decree". The definition of the decent or indecent character of housing, which had previously been concerned with health and health issues, was thus extended to energy consumption, since it exceeded the limits of what was acceptable or acceptable to those living there. The decree will therefore be amended following the adoption of the text to take this new criterion into account. These measures will then strengthen the information of the tenant, owner or purchaser of a dwelling, through the mandatory energy audit and guidance on the estimation of energy bills. It is necessary to make this vital information transparent, including for dwellings whose heating is not covered by collective charges. The buyer or tenant, before signing the sale agreement or lease, must know the energy consumption of his future dwelling. These new provisions will also prevent a change of lease from increasing the amount of rent for a dwelling that the energy performance diagnosis will have classified as F or G. Finally, an innovative measure – and thus raising many questions – proposed the recording of part of the sale price of a dwelling to finance energy renovation work. The Commission had adopted this measure on an experimental basis, only for certain territories with high demand for housing and high real estate prices. But the subject has raised perfectly legitimate questions. The Government, the majority and the rapporteur will therefore table a new amendment to replace this inadequately completed mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u188	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u189	We had also indicated in committee that he deserved to be reworked. It will therefore be abolished and replaced by a broader measure relating to energy renovation and the control of thermal colanders. The effects of such a measure will be felt in winter, of course. I am sure that you, as Members of Parliament, received many of your fellow citizens, as I did myself at the time I was, who asked you about their energy expenditure. I remember a family, a lodge tenant, who paid more than 3000 euros of heating bills a year, equivalent to three months of their wages. Renters, they could only suffer the consequences of the poor isolation of their housing, the owner refusing to start work. Such situations raise environmental issues as they increase greenhouse gas emissions and lead to waste of energy. The aim is to heat the houses, not the atmosphere; However, thermal mapping in many communities highlights the importance of current waste. The stakes are also economic and social since energy spending directly affects the purchasing power of the inhabitants. There is also solidarity between owners and tenants. But the effects of this measure will also be felt in the summer. Thermal colanders are synonymous with discomfort, which can lead to dangerous situations for the most fragile, infants, the elderly, exposed to very high temperatures in dwellings from which they cannot easily leave. Let us remember the dramatic consequences of the 2003 heat wave. We need to learn from it, not just during hot episodes. In committee last week, some questioned the provisions for the installation of vegetated roofs in the workplace. However, employees working in poorly insulated buildings are also exposed to excessive temperatures at the warmest hours of the day, which is more important. It is therefore not three days before a heat wave, at the moment when Météo France launches the alert, that we must start to care! Our role is to anticipate these situations. In this case, the subject of thermal colanders is far from being minor, since it concerns 7 million dwellings. The French, to withstand the heat wave, are reduced to buying air conditioners. They will have to pay a high heating bill in the winter and one of electricity, no less important, in the summer! But it is a vicious circle: the more air conditioners are used, the more energy is consumed, the more greenhouse gas emissions are increased, not to mention the warming of cities because of their buildings. The energy renovation package is all the more necessary as the building accounts for 40% of our energy consumption and more than 25% of greenhouse gas emissions – housing and offices. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you have accepted an amendment from the Government which allows concrete action to be taken on the ceiling of ARENH – regulated access to historical nuclear energy – within the limit of 150 terawatt hours, which will also allow, in the context of the discussions that the French government has with the European Commission, to start work on the price of ARENH, which has not moved for more than seven years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u190	Dramatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u191	Thanks to its integration into the calculation of regulated electricity tariffs, this provision will stabilise electricity prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u192	That's the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u193	We must be sincere and tell the French that if we want to limit future increases in electricity prices, we must vote for this measure. They must also be told that those who oppose it will, in fact, want an increase for the next few years at least as large as we saw in the first half of the year, on the basis of last year's production costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u194	So we don't have the right to disagree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u195	We have a perfect right not to agree, but we have to assume it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u196	We'll explain why we don't agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u197	It is not possible to say, one day, to the French that we want to stabilise the prices of electricity and to reject any net, another day, the device that allows it, because it amounts, in fact, to choosing the particular interests of some operators to the detriment of the general interest of consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u198	That's not what we said. Stop cartooning!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, let the Minister of State speak: he alone has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u200	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u201	It's a privatization, which you're organizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u202	Bobard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u203	The Minister of State has forgotten his past.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u204	We'll call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u205	The debate will take a long time, ladies and gentlemen, and everyone will have the opportunity to speak. For the time being, we are listening to the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u206	The text before you today therefore contains new provisions which affect, in practice, the daily lives of the French, particularly with regard to electricity tariffs – there is nothing more important in the daily lives of the French than the electricity tariffs. It is indeed the trademark of the majority that starting from the experience of the French to solve problems and achieve progress. The commitment to climate, I share it from its most global dimension to its most local dimension, with the development of renewable energies throughout the territory – a novelty compared to the old system, which was much more centralized. Beyond the mechanisms adopted by Parliament and the Government, beyond the action of the State to implement them, beyond that of public and private enterprises, there have always been, in France, in the field of energy, public enterprises and private enterprises,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u207	No, not always!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u208	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u209	... private companies whose existence we demand, but whose development we want:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u210	I see: live the market!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u211	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... we wish them even more and more, so that they create activities in the territories based on the new technologies – beyond that, I say, all these actors, not to mention the local authorities, who most often act as close to the French, it is the very mobilization of the citizens that must be promoted, because the climate is the business of all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u212	Mr Cellier, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u213	In the hours, days and nights ahead, we are going to look at the energy and climate bill, a complex, technical and ambitious text, a fundamental text that we can, I have no doubt, be collectively proud of. "It's no use for man to win the Moon if he loses the Earth. Of course, at the time of François Mauriac, there was no question of fighting global warming. However, these few words perfectly summarize the immense challenge that we all face. "Lossing the earth": the hypothesis is so abstract that it might seem absurd to us; the task so immense that one could feel powerless; the responsibility so great that one could be tempted to entrust it to the next generations. But the stakes are so crucial that they force us. The house is still burning, but now we can't look anywhere else. There's no other choice, no planet B. The reports of the scientists are indisputable. It's no longer a question of whether the planet is going to warm up. It is no longer a question of whether human activity is the cause. It is no longer a question of whether or not there will be population displacement, ever more intense and regular climatic phenomena, a decline in biodiversity or an acidification of the oceans. It is no longer a question of whether this is going to happen, ladies and gentlemen, because all this has already begun. The heatwave we are experiencing today as a call to order could become the norm in a few decades if we do nothing. Now, all we can do is contain this warming, so that it does not exceed 1.5 degrees. This is the commitment made by 195 countries during the Paris climate agreement in 2015 and, at a time when some are fleeing their responsibilities or trying to repel the constraint to a later date, France, through its national representation, will vote, in conscience and in responsibility, Article 1 of the text, which aims at carbon neutrality in 2050. To achieve this, we must have even more ambitious objectives: that is why, in Article 1, we decide not to reduce our consumption of fossil energy by more than 30% but by 40% by 2030. However, ambitious objectives must be aligned with realistic and pragmatic objectives. That is why we will set a target of 50% of the share of nuclear energy in the electricity mix in 2035, so that the nuclear base, on which our energy policy has been based for several decades, becomes the stable and solid pillar that other renewable energies will consolidate, while fossil fuels will disappear. This is also the subject of Article 3, with in particular the closure of the last four coal-fired plants in metropolitan France. Some will see it as a symbol, arguing that they account for less than 2% of electricity production, and others will say that they account for more than 35% of the sector's greenhouse gas emissions. But beyond this battle of numbers, we must, of course, take into account the social and economic consequences of these developments on the lives of women and men who will have to rethink their professional future. We'll have to go with them. This support will be supervised by an ordinance, the Government of which will present the implementation to Parliament one year after its publication. Our lives will change, the lives of our fellow citizens will change. It is better to act than to undergo, it is better to be an actor than a spectator of this change, it is better to make it a chance than a sum of constraints. Let us be the players in the energy transition, reduce the carbon footprint of our economy, allow our industry to be more efficient and virtuous, facilitate the installation of renewable energies and make citizens producers of their own energy. Let us do better, too, in the area of housing renewal, by simplifying and securing aid schemes, like what we voted in the Committee on Energy Saving Certificates. As we know, we must act in all sectors: energy production, buildings, mobility, agriculture, circular economy, industry. We have an opportunity here to take concrete action on the construction sector, which you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, is at the heart of everyday life and which accounts for more than 25% of our greenhouse gas emissions. Renovating an energy sieve is good for the climate, it is good for the energy system and it is good for the comfort and the bill of the French. Energy passoires are class F or G dwellings of energy performance diagnostics: for a housing of 100 square meters, the cost of heating amounts to between 1600 and 2200 euros per year. A number of concrete measures have already been adopted in committee to combat energy coffers: an energy audit obligation for the sale of housing; no revaluation of rent, after work, if the dwelling remains of class F or G; display of heating, cold and sanitary hot water expenses in real estate sales and rental ads; inclusion of an energy consumption threshold in the definition of indecent housing. Today, 68% of French people are concerned about energy consumption. The switch from a passory to a D class saves on average 512 euros per year. We know that a strong incentive for renovation already exists with multiple aids: the energy transition tax credit, energy saving certificates, a boost to 1 euro, aid from the National Housing Agency or, again, eco-loan at zero rates. These aids must be simpler, more legible, more accessible and better articulated. The Government is working on this: the idea of a one-stop shop for energy savings must, in my view, be deepened. More proactive measures were discussed in committee: prohibition on the rental of energy coffers; recording of part of the proceeds of the sale to carry out energy renovation work; obligation to renovate. We have had lively debates: so much the better, because they are an integral part of democracy. We will have the opportunity to have further debates in this House. For my part, I know that we need results: we will get them through an increased incentive, leaving the owners time to renovate while keeping in mind that our priority is the end of thermal colanders. With regard to the electricity bill, which concerns the daily lives of the French, we are changing the mechanism of regulated access to historical nuclear energy, in order to preserve consumers from too sharp increases. However, this revision cannot be the lasting solution. The ARENH should be thoroughly reformed, as requested by the President of the Republic. We cannot go on with this system at the end of the breath. This ambitious bill is a tool that parliamentarians have enriched, as they have increased it from twelve to forty-six articles: they will be able to continue to enrich it during the discussions. It sets up the High Council for Climate, which will guide our climate action. The High Council today issued its first report: we must take note of its findings and continue to act. From now on, future finance laws will take into account their carbon impact. From now on, the national low-carbon strategy will set targets for reducing the carbon footprint. From now on, parliamentarians will set our goals and the way forward to respond to the urgency every five years. All these provisions are included in the text, which is one of the components of the solution and action. But he's not the only one. The problem is global. Part of the solution is European. The example is national. We must embark on the fight against climate change in other countries. At European level, we have demonstrated and affirmed our leadership on the subject of climate. Last week, twenty-four Member States committed themselves to carbon neutrality. Out of the Atlantic, New York is in the process of passing a law that goes in the same direction. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The movement must increase and intensify. As I recall, the climate and ecological emergency is here. It will touch us and touch our children even harder. Mine are watching me right now. Yours, too, certainly. We have no right to disappoint them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u214	Mrs Sarles, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u215	Undoubtedly, the draft law on energy and climate reflects the Government's commitment to embarking on a new, resolutely ambitious step in the fight against climate change. Its examination before the two committees has enabled us to move from a text, which is essentially technical and sectoral in origin, to a project which will have to produce concrete results for our citizens, both in terms of environmental protection and social protection. The climate emergency requires that all actors participate in the effort: not only our citizens, but also the economic world. It is in this sense that we have worked with the members of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, as well as the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I welcome the considerable work that has been done by Anthony Cellier, with whom we have been in phase: we have been working together for several weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u216	An exemplary collaboration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u217	I also commend the Government and its teams for their mobilization and availability. As the rapporteur pointed out, the progress made on the text in the context of its examination by the Committee on Economic Affairs is important. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning was referred to the Committee for its opinion, and was given a substantive delegation for articles 2 and 4. With regard to Article 2, the establishment of the High Climate Council was to be welcomed. An independent body characterized by the high level of expertise and the variety of skills of its members, it will have to give fresh impetus to the analysis of climate issues in France. His independence is indisputable, as evidenced by the report he published yesterday. It will be essential to ensure, at the time of the introduction of the finance bill, that every year the High Council will benefit from the means necessary to carry out its tasks. The commission decided to include in the law certain provisions designed to clarify the institutional echo of the work of the High Council and to strengthen its links with Parliament. I will therefore present two additional amendments to this Article, one aimed at enabling the Economic, Social and Environmental Council to refer this institution to it, the other at encouraging local and regional authorities to take into account in their territorial development plans the objectives set at national level within the framework of the PPE and the low-carbon strategy. As for Article 4, which defines the authority responsible for the review on a case-by-case basis within the framework of the environmental authority, it must ensure the legal regime for projects, since the current situation can only be temporary. Noting that the organization proposed by the Government made it possible to respond to the recommendations made on the subject by the Council of State, the Commission adopted the article without amendment. Apart from these two articles, several topics of high concern were discussed in both committees. I am thinking of the provisions on energy renovation of buildings, including energy performance as one of the criteria for assessing the decent nature of housing, the possibility for ANAH to target households in difficulty, the addition to the EPP of a roadmap for energy renewal or the introduction of the green budget. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] All these reflections received the light of the fact-finding mission on the obstacles to the energy transition, whose work lasted a year, and whose report, presented yesterday by my colleague Bruno Duvergé, largely inspired our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u218	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u219	Twelve years ago, in 2007, a government supported by a right-wing majority launched an unprecedented process, the Grenelle de l'Environnement, by bringing together all the actors – NGOs, elected local and national, scientific – around the same table, who could contribute to France's finally taking on the challenges of our time, namely climate and environmental issues. This was followed by an exemplary process, in which ambitious objectives were set. For example, it had been decided that alternative energies would constitute 20% of France's energy mix by 2020. In 2019, one year before the deadline, this share is only 11%: You will agree, Minister, that the objective will be difficult to achieve! A few years later, in 2015, a government supported by a left-wing majority adopted the LTECV law, a rather severe acronym...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u220	That was the minister's personality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u221	... meaning the Green Growth Energy Transition Act, which also included ambitious targets, including reducing the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix by 2025 to 50%. Congratulations, minister: The title you chose for this new bill, "energy and climate," says what it means. Today it is not a question of embarking on a philosophical or political discussion, nor of seeking to be visionary: the debate on tomorrow's energy – or the day after tomorrow – we have had it, in a way, already. Above all, we must ensure that, behind ambition, concrete and realistic means are hidden. Minister, you sometimes talk about incantatory ecology; It is time for us to focus on the ecology of the concrete and to vote together on measures that will enable us to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves. The ambition, the credibility, the meaning of the concrete: these are the values that must inspire us in the coming days, when the hundreds of amendments to this bill are examined, a little less than expected, however, since about 140 of them were found inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u222	Especially those related to hydropower!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u223	I would like to thank the services of the sitting for ensuring consistency in the debate by confirming the choice made in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In the end, the examination of this bill must enable us to give France the concrete means to achieve the ambitious objectives which the country has set itself, and not to engage in a philosophical and political discussion which is certainly very interesting, but which does not have to be in this Chamber,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u224	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u225	At least not now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u226	It's curious, this refusal to do politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u227	We can do politics without necessarily redoing the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u228	We wish to remake the world; That's what makes us different!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u229	If our intention is to redo the world every time we sit in this Chamber, it will give very beautiful objectives, but no result, Mr Pradieu! However, we wish to achieve results; That is the meaning of this bill. It's important to know where we're going. Let's not forget that France accounts for 1% of global wealth and 0.5% of greenhouse gas emissions – I'm sure Julien Aubert knows these figures. Let us not forget that the nuclear programme, launched in the 1960s, is a strength for France, but also a weakness: by putting all our eggs in this basket, we have neglected the development of other energies, especially alternative energies. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us keep nuclear power in its role as a pillar of France's energy strategy, but let us finally give ourselves the means to double or triple the share of wind and alternative energies in the energy mix! We must also remember the message sent by the French during the last six months: the transformation of the French economy must certainly take place, we must not overlook the territorial divide or the need to accelerate the ecological transition. We will therefore ensure that all sections of the bill comply with these two requirements. For example, the closure of coal-fired power stations implies social support for the populations directly concerned. Similarly, with regard to thermal colanders, which we will have the opportunity to talk about at length, the Government will propose to you a system that is better designed than the one adopted in committee, and which will ensure a better balance between incitement and coercion. Similarly, social and territorial equity must be guaranteed. There are among you, ladies and gentlemen, a number of experts whose expertise I recognize on these matters. We will therefore not escape the lengthy technical discussions aimed, for example, at distinguishing between primary and secondary consumption, nor the lengthy debates on dates, ceilings and measures to control volumes and prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u230	And on the tops!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] But I urge you: let us not forget, during these debates, that the bill is ambitious, concrete and credible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u232	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u233	The postponement to 30 April 2019 of the presentation in Council of Ministers of the draft law on energy and climate, originally scheduled for early March, could have been an opportunity for the Government to reflect on the energy transition policy it wishes for France. Since the implementation of multiannual energy programming is linked to the adoption of the text we are discussing today, it was still time to become aware of some inconsistencies in the policy adopted in this area. You could have wondered what it is appropriate to do with regard to energy transition and how to allocate the resources available. You could have chosen to present a real energy transition law, so that we can define the guidelines we want to take in this area. This would have enabled Parliament to hold the debate it could not have had on the PPE, when it provides for major commitments and transformations for our country. [[Smile]] Instead, you have decided to present us with a small energy law and to set a long time frame for 2050. In 2014, I already called "presbytery" laws those that see the horizon very well, but very little the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u234	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u235	The draft is, moreover, deliberately limited to very specific subjects, in order to severely restrict the possibility for parliamentarians to amend it. However, its examination could have been an opportunity to know where you want to go: what will be the future of hydro-electric concessions? Should we regulate wind better? Unfortunately, we will not discuss these issues, since the amendments concerned have been declared inadmissible. So we will not be able to explain to the French what model you want to propose for the society of tomorrow. The only reason for this bill is therefore to shift the closing date for nuclear power plants. [[Smile]] While we can share some of the objectives of this bill, such as the fight against energy saving certificate fraud or the closure of coal-fired power plants, we cannot support all of its provisions – so much so. For example, we cannot reasonably accept the receivership mechanism adopted by the commission, and I am pleased, Minister, that you have decided to go back on this matter. This step backwards is a step forward! You're probably going to try us again on environmental irresponsibility, arguing that by opposing the bill, we're showing ourselves as climatosceptics. It's the opposite, though! This is precisely because Republicans are committed to the fight against global warming and the preservation of the environment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u236	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u237	It's a scoop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u238	Did the heat change your mind?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u239	This heat wave obviously makes you bubbling, my dear colleague! It is precisely because we are sensitive to these issues, but also committed to protecting the purchasing power of our compatriots and the potential of our country, that we believe that passing your bill would be a serious mistake. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The LR group therefore decided to table a motion of rejection for several reasons. Firstly, we are the real advocates of the planet, because we really want to reduce CO emissions, which this text does not allow. Secondly, we believe that the debate on the decarbonisation of the economy cannot be limited to numerical objectives, and you must explain to the French which society you want. Third, as true defenders that we are of the purchasing power of the French,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u240	This is not the conclusion that voters have reached!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u241	... we want to put an end to a upuesque system which, in the name of the contradiction between ecology and competition law, raises prices. The cure to the saying is in doing so: we are the real defenders of the planet, and we will show it to you. Indeed, when you replace decarbonized with decarbonized, you do not decompose anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u242	You didn't read the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u243	When you replace decarbonized nuclear energy with other intermittent decarbonized energies, you do not fight global warming. We have never changed our position, unlike you, Minister, who claim to have the future of the planet at heart. How can we vary on such a serious subject? This does not strengthen your credibility! Already in 2014, your socialist friends had passed a completely inapplicable law, and we warned them that the trajectory should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u244	It was in 2015!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u245	They are no longer there, but we, yes, and so we can recall how reasonable our position was at the time. As for you, a candidate for socialist primary schools in 2017, you were defending the 100% renewable energy target. Your energy programme stated: "Close nuclear power plants and invest with EDF in renewable energy by retaining all employees. Achieve 100% renewable energy production in 2050, which would create 500,000 net jobs." At the presentation of the EPP, which became a minister, you explained – a miracle – that nuclear power played an important role in France's energy strategy. On the way to Damascus, you had an illumination. We are pleased that your strategy has evolved, but, admit it, you are not very credible on the subject. On the contrary, our nuclear defence strategy is validated by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Have you read the IPCC report? It indicates that nuclear is useful for the energy transition. In its special report on the impacts of 1.5 degree global warming released in November 2018, the IPCC analysed eighty-five scenarios to limit warming to 1.5 degrees by 2100. According to these simulations, the growth factor for renewable energy is between 2.37 and 10.88, compared with a range of -0.64 and 7.22 for nuclear energy. In almost all IPCC scenarios, nuclear production is increasing – it is even more than doubling between 2020 and 2050 –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u246	Not in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u247	... while its share in the global energy mix remains stable. Therefore, the energy transition should not be aimed at denuclearisation. Of course, it is quite possible to diversify energy sources. We do not have to maintain the 75% share of nuclear power – let's not hang on to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u248	Do you agree to go down to 20%?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u249	However, when an industry has a comparative advantage, creates jobs and produces low-cost electricity, it is important to preserve its potential, its know-how and its role in piloting the French and European networks. It is precisely this pilotable energy that keeps German madness alive! We will have to choose between denuclearization and decarbonation: we cannot pursue two hares at a time. The postponement of the target of reducing the share of nuclear power to 50% of the electricity mix from 2025 to 2035 is proof of this. This rate has never been subject to any economic or industrial analysis. This is a commitment that François Hollande had made on a corner, in the same way that you decided to remove the housing tax for 80% of households without thinking about the budgetary implementation of your promise. It's total tartufferie! Everyone knew, at the time, that this goal was untenable! By changing president, you were not obliged to keep the worst commitment François Hollande had made. There is no doubt that the implementation of this target will have to be postponed because it is not compatible with the path of declining greenhouse gas emissions, nor with our industrial reality. Denuclearization, ladies and gentlemen, is recarbonation. Earlier, Minister of State, you welcomed, with a little more moderation than in committee, that the Technical Interprofessional Centre for Air Pollution Studies – CITEPA – estimated that in 2018 we had emitted 445 million tonnes of CO, a 4% decrease. All right! Let us congratulate ourselves on this result! But what does this decline have to do with? Have we developed the electric green energies? No. The main reason is that we had a mild winter. Is it global warming that will help us reduce our greenhouse gas emissions? It's not serious! The decrease in CO emissions can also be explained by the resumption of nuclear reactors stopped last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u250	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u251	In 1990, we emitted 548 million tonnes of CO. While these emissions remained stable for 10 years, they fell sharply by 100 million tonnes between 2000 and 2014, according to the International Energy Agency, the IEA. This does not correspond to the development of renewable energy but to the deindustrialisation of our country, which has mechanically led to a reduction in greenhouse gases. We have relocated our industries and thus transferred to other countries, including China, the possibility of polluting. But we are not fighting France's greenhouse gas emissions, but against global warming. If our policy leads to a decline in emissions in France and an increase in emissions in China, it is tartufferie! Bossuet said: "God laughs at men who deplore the effects whose causes they cherish. So let's stop cherishing the causes of warming and really fight this phenomenon. Energy transition, yes; energy betrayal, no! If you wanted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, you would not propose a target to reduce the share of nuclear energy in electricity production. Worse: you're taking the risk of letting this industry go down. You want to reduce the share of nuclear power production to 50% by 2035, with 14 900-megawatt reactors being shut down by the EPP, but you are occulting the fact that nuclear production is expected to collapse rapidly after 2040. A scenario by the Société française de l'énergie nucléaire, based on the EPP, shows that by retaining this hypothesis of closures of fourteen reactors and by estimating the lifespan of the other reactors at 60 years, a "cliff effect" will occur during the decade 2040-2050, when all the plants that entered service in the 1980s will arrive at the end of their lives, which will drastically reduce the installed capacity for generating nuclear electricity from 63.2 megawatts to 15 megawatts. Such a scenario would have far-reaching consequences. It would require us to quickly replace these lost power generation capacities, as the energy transition scenarios currently used offer electrification of uses which will, at the very least, lead to maintaining the level of electricity demand by 2050. Since it is not possible to reopen fossil-powered power plants to replace nuclear power plants that will be out of service, we will be faced with the following alternative: either we will increase the share of renewable energies further, or we will have to anticipate these closures of nuclear reactors by replacing them with third or fourth generation reactors. The first option, an ever-increasing increase in the share of renewable energies, would seriously endanger the stability of the French and even European electricity grid. A limitless increase in the share of intermittent renewable energy in the electric mix exposes us increasingly to a risk of giant blackout on a European scale. Such a disaster would cause huge losses for our economies, which are now so dependent on electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Republican Group are making an appointment with history. Remember this prediction! I know that some people are trying to reassure you that the network can hold and that everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u252	Is it TEN who says that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u253	We'll see. But let's be clear: if, in a few years' time, the European blackout, of which we have recently passed by with two fingers, comes, billions of euros go into smoke, and France is immobilized for several days, then we will see who said what, Mr Lambert. We will remember that we warned you that your policy was short-term and would lead to an economic disaster. Unfortunately, if you continue on the path you have embarked on, I fear that you will increase the likelihood of such a scenario. That is why I invite you to anticipate the renewal of the nuclear park in order not to find you at the foot of the wall. Energy transition, yes; energy betrayal, no! In order to effectively reduce CO emissions, we propose a reallocation of energy transition resources. We do not agree with the current allocation because it does not promote public policies to avoid greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible – that is what matters to us. The question we should ask ourselves is: when we have a billion euros to spend, where will it be best used?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u254	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u255	We have wasted tens of billions of euros in the deployment of renewable energy, for an impact on random, if not intermittent, CO emissions: as we develop renewable energy, greenhouse gas emissions decline or increase over the years. The only support for wind projects over the period 2011-2028 will cost the State between 72 and 90 billion euros. It is time to review our priorities. It is still time to ask the right questions and act accordingly: do we have time and money to focus our efforts on a single policy, namely the deployment of renewable energies whose impact on greenhouse gas emissions is, at best, zero, or do we consider that it would be preferable to spend this money on other policies, for example energy renewal? Instead of financing billions of wind projects, which are often faced with a major social challenge and which have no positive effect on the fight against global warming, let us change our policy! Let us be clear: this does not mean that any development of wind energy must be stopped.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u256	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u257	But we cannot commit tens of billions of euros to a policy that we know is not conducive to decarbonising the economy. The second argument is that a State without the means to change deprives itself of the means to preserve itself. In your energy strategy, you have forgotten the French. The decarbonisation of the economy cannot be limited to the debate on the objective alone. Earlier, President Lescure said with a lot of pragmatism that it was necessary to be concrete. The problem is that the energy model you are proposing is actually the product of a curious alliance between liberal globalists and ecologists of decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u258	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u259	Nicolas Hulot eventually noticed it and drew the consequences. [[Smile]] It is necessary to stop setting completely utopian decarbonisation targets by ignoring the question of cost. As François Mauriac said, there is no point in aiming at the Moon if you lose your mind! The Energy Code already plans to divide greenhouse gas emissions by four between 1990 and 2050. You now propose to aim for carbon neutrality. The method of calculation of the latter is discussed. However, we need to take into account our capacity to absorb CO in "carbon sinks", which is now close to 40 million tonnes per year, compared to 450 million tonnes of CO emitted. One thing is certain: carbon neutrality is not an easy-to-achieve goal. You're talking about a factor 6 or a factor 8, but what would be the environmental impact? Given the weight of France in rising temperatures – our country accounts for only 0.5% to 0.8% of greenhouse gas emissions – the impact of your measures is expressed in ten thousandths of degrees. If France were to reduce its discharges to zero, gradually by 2050, the global temperature would be reduced by 13 ten thousandths of a degree. A division by four of our discharges would result in a lesser temperature increase of 10 ten thousandths of a degree; a division by six of 11 ten thousandths; a division by eight of 12 ten thousandths. What price are we going to pay to get these ten thousandths of a degree? The question is all the more important as the marginal cost of the ton of CO increases: in other words, the more you save, the more expensive the last ton saved. Can we, without being insulted, suggest that the impact is not considerable? We have to look where we're going. France emits 4.38 tonnes of CO per capita when Canada and the United States emit 15 or Australia 16. China is achieving 6.57 tonnes of CO per capita, but is responsible for 28% of global emissions. We have to look at the mass effects. France can be compared to an individual who weighs 60 kilos, to whom the doctor advises to make a diet, while it is next to three giants – China, the United States and India – who weigh three tons to each other. We do not lose weight in the same way according to the original weight. In our country, electricity is already largely decarbonized. Energy transition, yes; energy betrayal, no! [[Exclaims on various benches]] All this has a price. The marginal cost of the avoided tonne of CO will become exponential. Note that factor 5 involves savings of 1.7 tonnes of CO per year, ten times less than what a household is currently emitting. This represents, to choose from, a year of gas heating for an apartment of 85 square meters, 10,000 kilometers travelled by car with a consumption of six liters per cent or the manufacture of a large computer. A single round trip between New York and Paris by plane will be enough to consume more than twice your annual quota. In reality, when we speak of factor 5, factor 6 or factor 7, we must question hyperconsumption, urban sprawl, intensive agriculture... In short, we must reduce GDP. Now you're playing with words. Your definition of carbon neutrality involves introducing technology to remove CO from the atmosphere; And this philosophy of technical progress annoys the apostles of decay, your allies present in this Chamber, who use factor 5, factor 6 or factor 7 to talk about the end of capitalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u260	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u261	Your example has long been Germany. The country plans to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 59% from 2005 levels by 2050. François Hollande had taken inspiration from it. But despite the hundreds of billions on the table, emissions are still at the same level. Der Spiegel admitted that the project was derailing, and it is the entire German public that is becoming aware that the famous Energiewende that served us as a model in 2014 is an aberration. Energy transition, yes; energy betrayal, no! [[Smile]] To put forward my third argument, I will quote Rudyard Kipling: "The sins that you two do, you have to pay one by one. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u262	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u263	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] We are the real advocates of consumer purchasing power because we want to put an end to a Kafkai system that, in the name of the contradiction between ecology and the law of competition, raises prices. The first reason for the decline in the purchasing power of French citizens is environmental taxes. You have already spent or committed a lot of money – almost a hundred billion euros. A concrete example of this gabegie: the renegotiation of wind at sea. Minister, as I have already told you in committee, you have renegotiated at EUR 150 per megawatt hour for the first six wind farms. Six months later, we learn that, for the same technology, we renegotiate at 50 euros in Dunkirk. One hundred euros of difference! In combination and taking into account the commitments, the negotiation of the first six parks is an error of €23 billion. France's energy policy must therefore be put back to reason. Because you want to develop wind and photovoltaics, you're relocating the carbon tax into the heads. The financing of the energy transition has already increased electricity, gas and fuel oil bills by 40%. We must add energy saving certificates, which are an interesting system, but which are also a tax that does not say its name, because it is actually imposed on citizens, via energy producers, on the pump or on the electricity bill. All this to help industries: it is state aid that does not say their name. This is where the contradiction lies: at the same time, we wanted to launch at European level a policy of greening energy and introducing competition – by twisting it, moreover, to allow green energy subsidies. To these costs is added the additional cost of a poor competition market system. This is the reason for the 6% increase in regulated tariffs: since competition in the electricity market was sought, EDF was considered not to be able to remain alone and to have a competitor. So we found a system where alternative electricity suppliers can buy nuclear electricity at low prices – it's ARENH, regulated access to historical nuclear energy – and sell it, with a commercial margin, on the market. However, as demand increased as a result of rising electricity prices, the ceiling was reached and these alternative suppliers had to go to the wholesale market, where prices were much higher, and the regulated tariffs had to be raised to prevent these alternative suppliers from losing customers to EDF. We're walking on our heads! A moment will come when we will have to choose between the adoption of the principle of pure and perfect competition – which, moreover, is not pure and perfect in France because, for some, these alternative suppliers do not produce electricity – and the purchasing power of the French. The Canard Enchainé reported that a subsidiary of a large oil group had requested, on the grounds that there was not enough nuclear electricity for sale, an increase in the quota – which you did in fact proceed with in committee. We will have seen everything: nuclear decarbonated electricity comes to finance the dividend returns of a group specializing in fossils! You still had to think about it! The worst thing, Mr Minister of State, and what I blame you for, even though I know that you have committed yourself to reviewing the scheme, is that this text does not bring the entire model of regulation of the electricity market downside down. The increase in the volume of the ARENH you are making will in fact cost EDF hundreds of millions of euros, which will increasingly control its own electricity production and will see its economic model increasingly constrained. The increase in the ceiling you are proposing is, in fact, only half a measure, which will cost EDF and consumers a lot. You even manage to remove regulated tariffs, which protect the purchasing power of the French. Let us be clear: between, on the one hand, the dogma of free competition and, on the other, the purchasing power of my compatriots, I will always choose the latter. Today, our system is neither competitive nor ecological nor economic: we have succeeded in creating a negative optimum. You had to do it! Besides, it's expensive! If we therefore agree on these principles, let us discuss them and try to find a system, for I am sure that no one in this House is happy to see the French increase in their electricity bill or to see that our system is deficient. It is a real vicious circle that is being set up. We'll have to choose which speech to hold: either you consider nuclear as the baudet on which we shout "Haro! You either see it as a milking cow until exhaustion, but you cannot treat it both as a cow and as a baudet. We will have to choose between donkey and cow politics – and, above all, abandon ostrich politics. The energy transition, yes. Energy treason, no. Now, in the background, the dismemberment of EDF is emerging through the separation of nuclear and other energies: the idea is to allow everyone to have access to the nuclear rent in order to be more competitive, instead of using this cheap electricity to improve the purchasing power of the French or to invest in the future of the park.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u264	You don't have many supporters to the right of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u265	Mr Minister, I see you a little gossip, but when we are at the head of a policy that costs tens of billions of euros, which does not allow us to retain the purchasing power of the French and which, above all, runs counter to the number one objective of reducing greenhouse gases, which is supposed to be the fight of our lives, a little modesty would be required. You should be clearer about the future of EDF – and we should have discussed it in the context of this text – because what this is about with the change in the ARENH is actually the future of EDF, a kind of public electricity service, with nuclear as a basic element, with complements on the model of social security and mutuals. If this is the model you want to move towards, let's talk about it, so that the French know what the electricity market you want in ten years' time. I am not saying that public monopolies have always worked better, because that is not true, and the right has not forgotten that private management has advantages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u266	No, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u267	However, once the investments have been made with French money and to the extent that it is necessary to protect the purchasing power of the French, it will be necessary to move towards public management. The energy transition, yes. Energy treason no. In conclusion, since you have caricatured our positions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u268	You don't need us for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u269	... I will recapitulate them, so that they are very clear. I do not want to hear some false accusations in this debate again. Firstly, we are walking on our heads: the electricity, fuel and fuel oil bill has been dramatically increased for 15 years, with a very low CO impact. The President of the Energy Regulatory Commission told the Committee of Inquiry into Renewable Energy, which I chair, that we are not financing green energy to combat greenhouse gas emissions. The yellow vests are going to be happy! They were told that the rise in pump prices was due to the fact that we were fighting for the planet. It's a tartuferie! It is time to choose purchasing power against the main principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u270	All you have to do is put on your yellow vest!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u271	Dear colleague, as for you, you can remove your green vest, because this piece of legislation is very poorly balanced! Secondly, the energy mix needs to be diversified by replacing fossil energy consumption with less carbon production. Enough debate on electricity, because that is not the point. The real debates are the 50 to 60 billion euros of fossil energy that we pay each year for transport or energy renewal. I know that some of our colleagues share this view.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u272	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u273	If you want to choose, rather than intermittent energies, it would be better to have controllable energies, at the lowest cost and with the best carbon impact. We need to make less green and more ecology. [[Smile]] Thirdly, the nuclear problem must be approached pragmatically. The previous majority voted for what I had called the "Volvic Amendment": one plant is extinguished, another one is awakening. Fessenheim had to be closed to open Flamanville. I take it that, since the EPR in Flamanville takes time to get off the ground, you're going to shift the closure of Fessenheim. Let's be pragmatic. Moreover, Minister, it would be smarter, as a message to be addressed, to close coal-fired power plants, which contribute to global warming, before nuclear power plants. Because we believe that in the fight against global warming, pragmatism is better than ideology, because we want to preserve our environment, because we believe that the energy transition must not be made against the people, but with them, because we are convinced that this transition can be an opportunity to improve the well-being of all, and because we can only see that this bill runs counter to this philosophy, we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this motion to reject it beforehand. [[Sébastien Jumel and Hubert Wulfranc applaud]] The energy transition, yes. Energy treason, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u274	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u275	We are not going to repeat the whole debate now, because we will have other opportunities to speak. However, since Mr Aubert has developed his arguments, I would not like him to say, if I did not reply, that we do not want to hear anything. I shall therefore confine myself to a few elements. First of all, Mr Aubert, you asked why we are not going back to the whole energy transition law, and why we are not proposing a new one. It is for the simple reason that we are doing what we have said. Before being elected President of the Republic in 2017, candidate Emmanuel Macron told the French that he would not question the balance of the 2015 law and that on the contrary he would apply it – which unfortunately had not been the case between summer 2015 and spring 2017. He also said that he would fulfil the commitment, previously made and not yet fulfilled, to close the old Fessenheim power plant. The candidates in the parliamentary elections – of which I was – who are presented to the French on the basis of this programme and who today constitute the majority of the National Assembly implement these commitments. It's a simple, de-mo-cratic response. You, for your part, supported another candidate: Mr.Fillon, who, in the debates prior to the presidential election, had said that, if elected, he would repeal the energy transition law of 2015. It turns out that Mr. Fillon was not elected. It's democracy. That's how it is. We are therefore implementing what we have announced. That's the least we owe to the French. By the way, it seems to me that the candidate you supported was in favour of a massive increase in VAT, which is not really a measure of purchasing power. Such an increase would undoubtedly have applied to energy and would have increased electricity bills – but you obviously forgot to remind us. You say that there is no point in developing renewable energies – I know your obsessive opposition to these energies – on the grounds that it is replacing decarbonated energy with decarbonated energy. Do you demonstrate on this occasion a lack of knowledge of the power generation tools used in France today, in 2019 – I'm not talking about the mythified tools?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u276	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u277	Is that an approximation? Is that a little lie?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u278	Big one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u279	I'm thinking about this last hypothesis. In this case, Mr Aubert, we are talking about concrete things: when we shut down coal-fired power plants and at the same time we open wind farms on land or at sea, it is clearly to replace old thermal power plants emitting de-carbonated renewable energies. I know you don't like it, but it's reality. I am elected from a territory, the Loire-Atlantique, where we know what thermal power plants are. When I was a kid, there was a large oil power plant a few kilometers from downtown Nantes. It's been closed. Another was built between Nantes and Saint-Nazaire: the Cordemais power station, one of the largest thermal power stations in France. It consisted of two oil slices, which were already closed in 2017, and two coal slices, which will be closed by 2022. To replace it, we have sought to develop production methods that are both renewable and decarbonised: this is the case of the offshore wind farm built off Saint-Nazaire which, along with others, will take over from the former power plants, or – another concrete example – from the Le Havre wind farm. So you cannot continue to claim, as if nothing were happening, that decarbonized energies replace other decarbonized energies. If you were to defend the French industry, which allows workers, technicians and engineers to develop new activities, you would be on our side to promote renewable energies. But I see that you are suffering from the syndrome of the distant horizon: you are walking towards a horizon that always moves away. You say that land wind must no longer be made – you never wanted to do anything about it, to the detriment of decentralized electricity production that allows economic and fiscal benefits throughout the territory – but you hardly said that it would be better to make wind at sea than you add that this wind turbine should not be laid, but floating, when this technology is only at an experimental stage. You always push the change to later and further. It is not surprising, moreover, because you are a conservative. Give him back. After all, conservatism is a political project. As for us, we are progressive,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u280	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u281	That speech again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u282	...which makes a small difference. As a result, you always postpone changes to later: change is always for others and elsewhere. We do it here and now, for the benefit of France and the French. [[Mr. Aurélien Pradie exclaimed]] As far as nuclear power is concerned, if we diversify, it is by political choice... [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr. Pradie, politics is not just about incendiary and insulting tweets about your colleagues in the National Assembly and the ministers! You cannot hold five years like this: your voters will soon get tired – this is already the case, judging by the results of the European elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u283	It's flying low!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u284	[[New exclamations]] I am replying to Mr. Aubert because he spoke for thirty minutes and made the effort to develop a reasoning...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the Minister of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u286	[[Protests on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] Unfortunately, I think that Mr Pradié will have to be called back to order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u287	It's not up to you to judge!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u288	This debate is starting badly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u289	Mr. Aubert therefore wondered what justified the choice of 50%. Why reduce the share of nuclear in electricity generation to this threshold? This is a question of rebalancing and diversification. As the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs said at the moment, the importance of nuclear power generation is a force that allows our country to emit less CO than its neighbours, it is also a weakness, because it makes us dependent on a single technology, which is more a technology developed in a given historical period and whose renewal will take place in a limited space-time. We therefore prefer to anticipate, spread over time the closure of old power plants and develop in parallel other sources of energy. We believe in diversification in the same way we believe in competition. Diversification is in the interest of the French economy. You have failed to say that the cost of renewable energies, particularly wind energy, is constantly falling. You know the results of the last call for tenders at Dunkirk offshore wind farm: the price will be less than 45 euros per megawatt hour, i.e. close to the market price without a subsidy. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, on the issue of regulated tariffs, you have a particular way of putting the debate. We will hear Mr Fasquelle in a few moments: we will know if he shares your position, against competition and the interests of consumers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u290	No, there's no connection between the two!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u291	Clearly, you are defending the interests of an operator at the expense of those of consumers. Is this position personal to you, Mr. Aubert, or is it the position of the Republicans? This is what parliamentary debates are for: to enlighten the French on the positions taken by each, in order to enable them to predict what the politicians they elect will do. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I therefore hope that the rest of the debate will allow us to clarify this point: are you, or are you not, on the consumer side? If you are, you must adopt the device we propose. In any event, the Government invites you to reject this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u292	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Célia de Lavergne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u293	Unsurprisingly, the La République en marche group will vote against this rejection motion. To hear our colleague's arguments, the rejection would be justified in what is only a "small law." A little law? Definitely not! This bill is sincere: it tells the French the truth about the path that we will adopt, after a consultation that lasted more than a year, in the framework of multi-year energy programming. This bill is also ambitious: it transcribes into law the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050; it provides for the closure of the four coal-fired power stations and accompanying arrangements for employees; it leads to engrave in the marble provisions relating to the energy renovation. It will make it possible to confirm the PPE Decree and thus make operational certain invitations to tender highly expected in the territories by the employees and by the companies. It will create economic activity in France. Far from being a small law, it is, on the contrary, a much awaited law! There is no justification for the motion of rejection that you tabled. Listening to you, I wondered if your goal was not to take advantage of the gallery that was left to you for about 30 minutes to explain how disappointed you were...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u294	It is still good that the opposition has a forum!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u295	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...that your vision of the energy transition is not ours, nor the one that the French have chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u296	All you have to do is remove the opposition stands, it'll be easier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u297	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u298	I confess that I do not understand, Mr.Aubert, this motion to reject it beforehand. The bill before us today does not meet your expectations, that is. But in this case, let Members and yourself have the opportunity to submit amendments to transform it! This bill is a very topical one: at a time when there is an environmental emergency, at a time when France and the French are crushed by heat, we cannot reject without debate a text that provides for the inclusion in the law of carbon neutrality, the closure of coal-fired power stations or the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition to these advances, this bill addresses some major issues such as the future of nuclear power, the inclusion of the EPP in the law or the development of a real energy mix – all of which deserve much debate. We have been waiting for a text on energy for several months: we cannot reject it now that it has been tabled before we have even examined it. That's not what the French expect from us. Unlike you, Mr Aubert, I do not think that this project marks the beginning of the end of capitalism in France, or even of the consumer society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u299	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u300	On the other hand, ask yourself, honourable Member, whether your political presbytery, on the one hand, and global warming, on the other, have not greatly contributed to the drastic melting of your electorate. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I say this on behalf of the MODEM Group: the energy and climate bill, yes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u301	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u302	An old socialist activist of my territory, authentic and faithful to his convictions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u303	Too bad he's socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u304	... said this: "The troublesome thing when you win is that you have to be nice to others. You do not really share this state of mind, yet a sign of true wisdom. [[Ms Laure de La Raudière and Mr Martial Saddier applaud]] When you win, you have to show some measure and humility. For a week now, Pascal Canfin has told us that the real cleavage would be between ecologists who are against the market economy and those who are for the market economy – amazing! Earlier, the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs opposed "concrete" to "incantatories". As for you, minister, you are telling us that the real cleavage would be played between the progressives and the Conservatives. Couldn't we go beyond this kind of archaism? [[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] It's so reductive and caricatural! There is a little pride in this way of stigmatizing oppositions, those who don't think exactly like you or who might contradict you. You are not starting these three days of debate in the best possible state of mind! We could respect each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u305	It is respect to debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u306	We should all have as our roadmap the report of the High Council for Climate which, in every way, warns us that France is not meeting its ambitions. Both of us will make proposals that largely overlap with what the HCC is telling us. We are not in ideology but in the search for solutions, and the convictions that drive us are just as respectable as yours. Nevertheless, the Socialist and related Group will not vote on the motion to reject beforehand: there was a debate before the text was tabled on the Bureau of the House, there was a debate in committee, and I am sure that a good debate will take place in the Chamber, as long as we adopt the right attitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u307	That's the point! We have this debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u308	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u309	I must admit that some of the words of our colleague Julien Aubert seduced me: it is normal since we defended the same programme in the presidential election. It must be recognised that France, with its 75% nuclear power, already has a decarbonated electricity and an energy mix much better than that of its European neighbours. It is also true that we do not really have the elements to measure the effect of the tens of billions of euros spent on renewable energy production. In any event, this policy has had little effect on the reduction of greenhouse gases. Yes, my dear colleague Célia de Lavergne, Julien Aubert used this forum to explain his vision of energy policy, and that is normal! This is our job as Members, since we will not be able to do so when we begin our examination of the articles. On the other hand, the UDI-I group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand because it approves the pragmatic aspects of the bill. It is therefore a good thing to postpone to 2035 the reduction to 50% of the share of nuclear power generation, the objective of doing so by 2025 being simply not achievable. This will allow time to revise, if necessary, the energy policy you are pursuing, which is not necessarily the only one possible. Furthermore, the provisions for energy renovation in buildings seem interesting to us, as well as the relaxation of legislation to allow the development of photovoltaic energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u310	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u311	I must admit that I do not understand what prompted members of the Republicans to table this motion of rejection, as if the report of the High Climate Council had not been published this morning, as if it had not highlighted the urgency or proposed a new reading grid consisting of placing environmental and climate issues at the centre of our public policies. I heard the word "decarbonized" to describe nuclear, but the minister, on this point, was extremely clear. You're confusing everything, Mr. Aubert!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u312	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u313	You're mixing the stakes. As far as nuclear power is concerned, we cannot rightly continue to produce 75% nuclear power when, in the world's second most nuclear-weapon-free country, this share is 20% or 25%! There's something stuck in our own model. But neither can you use nuclear power to curb initiatives and block absolutely essential actions in the field of renewable energy. While you have had a relatively long speaking time – the length of your speech must have been close to 30 minutes –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u314	As laid down in the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u315	I do not deny it: I am just saying that, despite this relatively long duration, Mr.Aubert has never addressed – or so little – the issues related to thermal renovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u316	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u317	At least he has done so little, that we have not heard him on this subject! That's the problem! You let the French live in thermal colanders, saying that without nuclear power, they will continue to die hot in summer and will not have the means to heat up in winter. But that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u318	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u319	The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore invites you to reject this motion of rejection in order to finally work on the answers to be given to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u320	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u321	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Putting aside cartoons and arrogance, the text presents laudable and shared objectives on all the benches of the House. The problem, and that is one of the reasons why we will be voting on this rejection motion, is that in the middle of the summer – you acknowledged it with your lips just now – you are negotiating with Brussels the removal, the razing, the splitting of the tool that EDF represents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u322	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u323	While we are talking about this small climate law, the State Participation Agency in Bercy is negotiating with the European Commission a reorganization aimed at deregulating, choosing the market rather than regulating, without informing Parliament, which will be faced with the fait accompli at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u324	And these lies aren't arrogance?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u325	Every time we express a different opinion from yours, you call, Monsieur de Rugy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u326	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u327	Let me explain to you what your project is hiding. A State-controlled entity – for what part? we don't know yet – we will take back the elements of historical production: nuclear, flame thermal, engineering, the dismantling of power plants and perhaps parts of hydraulics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u328	What a word mill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u329	The word mill is you, Monsieur de Rugy! And the one who proposes to remove the tie after turning his jacket, it's you again! [[Hubert Wulfranc applauds]] It is 35% of the current capital that is delivered to the logic of the shareholders: Dalkia, the business management, renewable energies, Enedis, overseas activities – excuse for a little! This is a new act of deregulation of the electricity market. You can set yourself all the targets for greenhouse gas resorption or control of the tariffs you want, you won't achieve them if you get rid of these strategic tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u330	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u331	I will not go back to the ad hominem attacks or to the argument that we only made 8% in the European elections. It reminds me of those who said, "You are legally wrong, because you are a political minority"; In the same way, today we would be "environmentally" wrong because we are politically minority – but, as you know, we have been what you are, and perhaps we will be again! [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] It is to other arguments that I would like to answer, Minister. We are in favour of diversification but not of the one you are proposing. We are for diversification in hydrogen, biogas, biofuels. I said, Mr Lambert – but perhaps you didn't listen to my entire speech, and if you did, it was by filtering out its content – that tens of billions of euros had to be transferred from financing renewable energies to energy renewal. You didn't understand that the substance of my speech was to say that you were a top priority. I can send you a signed copy, accompanied by a coloring drawing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u332	What a spirit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u333	Secondly, you said you wanted to discuss the text, but President Lescure unfortunately opposed the inadmissibility of about 100 amendments, depriving us of the opportunity to discuss a large part of the draft. Thirdly, Minister, it is a tartufferie to claim to favour renewable energies by closing a coal-fired power plant. The development of intermittent renewables began long before attention was given to the closure of coal-fired power plants! The whole project actually aims to reduce the share of nuclear energy in order to increase the share of renewable energy. The very strong trend increase foreseen by the EPP far exceeds the potential of coal. Finally, by saying that production costs are falling in wind, you leave aside the hidden costs, the impact on the network, the cost of storage, the negative prices of electricity produced at the wrong time – since you manage to have to pay customers to buy back our electricity –, the cost of erasure, etc. You reason only in terms of financial or budgetary costs, while you have to reason in terms of economic costs to measure what this energy costs the national community. You're talking about industry. The floating offshore wind turbine is one that has a future. But from the point of view of our trade balance, there is no picture. If you want to defend an industry, start with nuclear power, which represents hundreds of thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u334	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the La République en marche Group and the Les Républicaines Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u335	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 66 Number of votes cast 66 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 9 Against 57
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u336	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u337	It has now been a week since the Committee on Economic Affairs considered the draft law on energy and climate. In the midst of the canicule period, however, we remain in the fog as this text lacks method and ambition. On a subject essential for our fellow citizens, it hides a confused and already outdated policy. The panel review revealed a method problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u338	You weren't on a commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u339	Many Members, from all groups, have rightly denounced the mechanism for governance of energy policy. Indeed, it became quite clear that the only reason for this was to allow multi-annual energy programming to remain in the nails of the law, the rest being accessory or dressing. The exercise to which this bill is submitted is perfectly paradoxical and contrary to the spirit of our institutions, since this is the law that adapts to the rules, not the other way around. Moreover, a substantial part of the very many amendments tabled were declared inadmissible during the examination in committee without a clear understanding of the reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u340	You would have understood that if you had been there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u341	On the other hand, it is rare enough to note that several amendments have been adopted by a majority with the support of the oppositions against the Government's opinion, in particular with regard to support for Super E85 ethanol. This text also lacks pragmatism. Rather than "tomit" the perfectly dogmatic figure of reducing the share of nuclear energy in electricity to 50 per cent, the Government would do better, in a logic of energy diversification, to pursue the fundamental objectives of the energy transition: decarbonization, network stability, security of supply and social acceptability. Thirdly, there is a lack of ambition in this text, except for the addition of importance, in relation to the February draft law, of the announcement of the closure of the most polluting fossil fuel combustion plants. This decision is supposed to go in the direction of the energy policy defined by the 2015 law – which is normal, Mr. de Rugy being obviously a prisoner of the policy he previously defended –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u342	I wasn't a minister then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u343	... but the measures will have, in view of the numerical objectives assigned at the time, a rather small scope. This text is also marked by some improvisation. Thus a letter of amendment was communicated on 12 June, two days before the deadline for tabling amendments for consideration in committee, following the invalidation of the articles of the CAPTE law relating to the abolition of regulated gas sales tariffs and the restriction of those of electricity. MPs The Republicans had, however, during the examination of the PACTE bill, denounced the fact that the last-minute amendments tabled by the Government were legislative riders. We were not listened to then, despite the importance of the subject. The improvisation observed during the examination of this law is therefore still necessary; This is not to be put to the Government's credit. Another issue of concern to us is the difficulty of EDF as a result of the increase in the ARENH ceiling. Again, we are in improvisation, since the consequences of this decision have not been sufficiently measured. Fifth, this bill hides a policy that is ultimately rather confused, while 62% of French people, according to a poll published this morning, consider the government's insufficient effort to protect the environment and combat global warming. The bill proposes to change the objectives of energy policy: to strengthen the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the target of reducing the primary energy consumption of fossil fuels by 2030; delaying the goal of reducing the share of nuclear power generation by ten years. While this reflects the need to ensure compliance with the commitments made under the Paris Agreement, it demonstrates the inconsistency, denounced by the Republican Group during the review of the 2015 law, of the energy policy conducted under the Dutch quinquennium and perpetuated by the present government. Indeed, ambitious decarbonisation objectives, which are no longer questionable, have been accompanied by a timetable for reducing the share of nuclear energy in the French mix, which could undermine the country's energy independence and tarnish electricity exports. I regret, moreover, that we did not learn the lessons of what happened in our German neighbours, especially since Minister Sigmar Gabriel himself explained that the energy transition had been a failure in Germany – before getting hit on his fingers and having to go back on those words. The price of electricity has doubled and there are problems of electrical connection between the north and the south of the country. As a result of the disappearance of nuclear power plants, coal-fired power plants had to be reopened. This is the result of a policy that has also been improvised. Unfortunately, France did not learn from what happened with its neighbour and embarked on the same policy. We had already fired the alarm bell in 2015: you didn't listen to us then and you still don't listen to us in 2019. Last but not least, this text is already out of date, which alone justifies its referral to committee. Indeed, this morning the High Climate Council published its opinion on public policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions – I imagine that reading this document has had to disrupt your breakfast, Minister, as much as the observation made is far from happy. In this first report, this independent body created last November points to the inadequacy of France's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to be able to hope to achieve carbon neutrality. As the press has pointed out, the HCC notes that the profound socio-economic changes that are needed remain to be undertaken. As noted in its report, the commitments made in 2015 by countries that have ratified the Paris Agreement, although all of them are implemented, are largely insufficient to stabilize future global warming. As for France, which set itself the goal of carbon neutrality in the framework of the Paris Agreement in 2050, it is clear that it is far from fulfilling this commitment. As the report points out, "the average emission decline of 1.1% per year for the period 2025-2028 is far too small and far below the target decline of 2.9% per year. This is the observation that can be made today of the failure of the policies that you helped to put in place when you were in the majority, under the presidency of François Hollande. It's also your record, and it's your failure, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u344	I wasn't a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u345	Not only are carbon budgets not respected, but the High Council also criticizes how they are defined because France's objective of carbon neutrality "does not cover France's full responsibility because emissions from international air and maritime transport and imports are not included". The High Climate Council also points to the inadequacy of structural changes, whether they involve changes in infrastructure, investments in energy efficiency or disinvestments in sectors that emit large amounts of greenhouse gases. In the passenger transport sector, the High Council noted an increase in demand and a delay in electrification. In the case of freight transport, it points to a small transfer to the rail. On the other hand, it questions public policies, "such as the absence of eco-taxes or tax exemptions on fuels for certain activities. » In the construction sector, the reduction of emissions depends mainly on the reduction of energy consumption for heating. However, the High Council reports that energy consumption is stagnating rather than decreasing, that there are poor renovations and that there is a delay in eliminating the most carbon-intensive heating systems. In addition, he denounces the fact that "nearly half of the rented houses in the private park are energy coffers. » In the energy sector, for the period 2015-2018, the High Council considers that gas consumption has increased slightly and that oil consumption has decreased twice too slowly. Only coal has decreased satisfactorily. With regard to renewable energy, the deployment target should only be partially achieved. Overall, the HCC reports a lack of climate investments, amounting to EUR 41.4 billion in 2018. By comparison, investments that sustain the use of fossil fuels in France reached €75 billion in 2017. You see how alarming this report is and how overwhelming it is. Therefore, minister, your bill is absolutely not commensurate with the challenges ahead and will not be able to overcome the failure of the policies that you have contributed to. Things are clear: either we continue along the lines of what you proposed in 2015 and which has already failed, as this report attests, or we promote a real policy, ambitious, that corrects the shooting, different from this "small" law or, in any case, from a law that lacks ambition. For all these reasons, the Republican Group is asking for referral back to committee. After reading this report or, if you have not read it, the passages I have just mentioned, you will all be convinced that your law is not at all up to the challenges before us. We call for referral back to committee so that, on the basis of this report from the High Council, we can rewrite this law in depth and finally propose a text that meets these challenges and the expectations of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Thank you for your attention. I have no doubt that, together, we will vote on this motion in order to do a serious job and finally have a law that meets our ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u346	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u347	Two remarks. On form, first of all. I have spent a few hours with Members in committee, and it is quite tasty to hear you ask for a referral to committee, Mr Fasquelle, when you have not taken part in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u348	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u349	He speaks on behalf of his group!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u350	Perhaps this explains this! Mr. Aubert was very present and we were able to discuss it. I say this for Mr Potier, who has gone, but also for everyone: I have been a Member of Parliament for eleven years, in the opposition or the majority, and I have had debates where arguments, such as the one that Mr Aubert has just made, in the rostrum, did not get any response from the Government. As for me, I consider that there is mutual respect between us – I hope that these remarks will be reported to Mr Potier. We have to answer; No more than it is necessary, but we have to answer, and I have answered Mr.Aubert, because it is normal as a result of the arguments he has put forward. On the substance, since Mr Fasquelle's arguments are identical, I cannot go back to them. I want to say, "same arguments, same vote." Mr. Fasquelle said that the development of renewable energy in Germany has gone through the revival of electricity generation from coal. It is better to stick to the facts. Before you arrived, I had the opportunity to say that in terms of ecology, we have to rely on the scientific facts, on the figures. To say that the development of renewable energy in Germany has gone through coal is part of the urban legend. In this case, in the last five years, coal-based electricity production has decreased by 13% in this country. This is certainly still insufficient and we have urged Germany to make the same way as we do. It will be longer, but this country has adopted a plan for the release of coal at the beginning of the year so that no generation of electricity will take place from coal by 2028. So we have to say things as they are, otherwise we go astray. We don't make the right choices without the right numbers. That's what I wanted to say, peacefully. The debate will continue, and I have no doubt that the majority of the House will be very keen to do so by rejecting this motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u351	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u352	The La République group on the move will vote against this motion for referral to committee. Let me remind you of a few figures. In the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, and then in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have examined almost 600 amendments for over 22 hours of debate on this draft law on energy and climate. The discussion was rich and passionate. The enthusiasm of our colleagues, of all sensitivities, shows that there is an urgent need to act. The climate emergency is palpable; The time for action has come. A referral of this text to the committee does not therefore seem to us to be relevant. Moreover, its adoption is a condition for the implementation of multiannual energy programming. Again, it is time to act. I recall that a deep debate took place in civil society in 2018, throughout France, for several months, and that thanks to the National Commission for Public Debate all French people were able to deal with these problems, each actor having been able to send written contributions. If our colleagues in the Republicans really want to act in the face of the climate emergency, I invite them to get into the heart of the matter and now to discuss this text in the Chamber. I am sure that they will approve an amendment by the rapporteur, supported by the Republic in motion, so that Parliament will be better involved in multi-annual energy programming, which is now only covered by the regulation. The LaREM Group is proud to debate this bill which secures and amplifies the system of energy saving certificates, the C2Es, which creates the High Climate Council, which creates the conditions for closing the last four coal-fired power plants, which enhances our ambition in the fight against climate disruptions, which implements strong measures for the renovation of energy tanks. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Because there is an urgent need to act, we will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u353	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u354	[[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] I have heard remarks on two or three occasions about my absence during the debates in committee. Indeed, because I am a member of the Committee of Inquiry into Large Distribution and, like Sébastien Jumel, of the fact-finding mission on fisheries, and also because I presented this morning, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, with Denis Sommer, our report on subcontracting. Also accept that Members work and avoid making this kind of remark, deeply unpleasant and displaced! These low blows, if I may say so, are not up to the debate, Minister of State, and I expect better from you. Moreover, there is no need to be in committee to see, at the end of its work, that it has not improved the text. You kicked it off by arguing that you had already responded to Julien Aubert, but I, for my part, developed the arguments of the High Council. I understand, however, that you are uncomfortable because the latter's report points to the failure of your policy from 2015 to 2018 – a period of which you are an accountant, not being a bird that fell from the nest in 2017; you are co-responsible for the policy that was carried out under the successive governments of François Hollande. You refused to listen to us in 2015, as you refused to listen to us in 2019! This report therefore points to the failure of your policy and instead of referring the text back to committee in order to get us back to the table and to rewrite it from bottom to bottom since it is in line with the policy followed in 2015, in step with our objectives, you persist in error, and we regret it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u355	The NOME law on the new organization of the electricity market is you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u356	We continue to ask for a referral back to committee, because France and the French deserve better than the text proposed today, at a time when we are struck by a clear manifestation of global warming.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u357	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u358	By bringing this motion to refer to committee after the motion to reject it, you are delaying consideration of this text. Worse, you may prevent or delay it after the holidays, after the budget, after the municipal elections or I don't know when. Now, everyone tells you, there's an emergency. As the rapporteur said, his children, our children, France and the world are waiting for us to act. It is here and now that such a debate must take place, it is today, not elsewhere, not in other fora: it is we who must take decisions, probably even important, drastic, as the Minister of State said earlier. On October 5, 2017, I was proud to have been present to vote for Nicolas Hulot's text to put an end to hydrocarbon research and development. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mrs Nathalie Sarles also applauds]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, which I have the chance to represent, wants the debate that you are trying to prevent to take place because the French want us to take decisions here and now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u359	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u360	The Socialist and related group will abstain. Why? Because we are frustrated on a number of issues, although I would like to say that in committee we have worked constructively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u361	And thorough.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u362	When things progress, I can say it too! I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, thanks to whom significant progress has been made, for his benevolence. The climate emergency has been declared, so we need to be coherent and move forward. We hope that the public sitting will be as constructive as the committee has been, that is, that a number of our requests can be accepted and that part of our amendments will be adopted in order to change the text. We will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u363	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u364	We associate ourselves with the remarks made by our colleague Daniel Fasquelle. In terms of methodology, the Government has added by letter of amendment four new articles on the end of regulated gas tariffs and the restriction of the scope of eligibility to regulated electricity sales tariffs, thus depriving the rapporteur of the possibility of hearings and all Members of Parliament of the time needed to propose amendments sufficiently worked less than 48 hours before the deadline for tabling amendments in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u365	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u366	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u367	In addition, this examination in public session takes place the week following that in committee, leaving 48 hours to amend the text for the sitting, without the report of the committee's work being fully available before the deadline for tabling amendments, as was already the case with the PACTE law on business growth and transformation. In this case, the bill has gone from twelve to forty-two articles, with almost all new articles coming from the Government, either directly or indirectly – we all know that all governments do. You will find with me that the conditions for considering the energy and climate bill are not optimal, even if we recognize the quality of the debate in committee. We have not had time to debate correctly many of the articles that have been added by way of amendments when they concern matters of importance to our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The UDI-I Group will therefore vote on the motion for referral to the Committee of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u368	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u369	This motion for referral to committee is still surprising, and the Libertés et Territoires Group is quite critical of it. How could I not sit tomorrow, the text sent back to committee, when millions of French people are suffering the consequences of the heatwave? How can you explain to them that the French Parliament cannot work on this problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u370	He can work very well in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u371	How can we explain to them that we must return to committee when the Republicans, who are the majority in the Senate, can amend this text? Please, let's move on! This bill, on which we will make positive criticisms, is absolutely necessary, because it is urgent to respond to the daily problems of the French. Their daily lives are not nuclear, they are the means to heat up, to light up, to cool down, to live simply! I see myself very badly, here, giving us leave because the head of some is overheating canicula! The Liberties and Territories Group will vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u372	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u373	The La France insoumée group will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee. First of all, I agree with my colleague Laure de La Raudière on the conditions for examining the text. Secondly, to repeat what has just been said, all French and French people are suffering, on a daily basis, the consequences of global warming, which has begun to produce its effects and will unfortunately get worse. This results in episodes of heat, but also other phenomena such as, for example, the widely documented shortage of honey. I also invite you to observe very carefully what is happening in India today, where temperatures exceed 40 degrees, sometimes reaching 50 degrees, which causes changes in the behaviour of both men and animals. This suggests the future that we expect the younger generation and those to come – if at least we remain in climate inaction. This climate inaction on the part of the Government and the majority is now illustrated by three extremely important symbols. First, we learned that we were going to debate the CETA – a comprehensive economic and trade agreement – on 17 July, in the middle of the summer. Continuing free trade at all-va is a way to aggravate climate change. Secondly, we were informed this weekend that the Perpignan-Rungis freight line would close on 12 July, which will put 25,000 trucks on the roads. Do you understand what this means, in concrete terms, in ecological and health terms? Third, work began in the triangle of Gonesse,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u374	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u375	... with a view to creating the EuropaCity project, which will once again artificialize agricultural land and thus aggravate global warming. I will mention one last reason why we voted. Oppositions are not the only ones who reject the bill. This is also the case for many NGOs, such as the Climate Action Network, ATTAC – Association for the Taxation of Financial Transactions and Citizen Action – and the CLER – Network for the Energy Transition – who feel that the text is not up to the challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u376	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u377	Minister of State, the French, who have just cashed in an increase in electricity tariffs of 5.9% and to which many fariboles have been told,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u378	Yes, we have to change that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u379	... are entitled to know why this increase, postponed from December to June, is imposed on them. So much if you don't like it – after all, it's a usual question – but, contrary to what you said on all the antennas and the answer you gave to my colleague Hubert Wulfranc, this increase is not intended to cover EDF's energy production costs: it's a lie to say that. I denounced a turpitude earlier; Now, before you, I want to shed light on a lie. As you know, the increase of almost 6% is due to a questionable calculation method which ultimately aims to treat the historical producer and the private producers equally, which you want to promote through deregulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u380	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u381	We are told that it would be enough to vote the law immediately for the heat to come down again. Who's gonna believe that? We are told that those who do not want to press the button right away do not care about the future of the planet. I am going to vote for the referral back to committee, because I believe that your approach to rail policy will exacerbate greenhouse gas emissions by strengthening the position of road transport. I am going to support this motion because I believe that the ELAN law, which will develop housing, development and digital technology, will slow down the thermal renovation, which must be adapted to the needs of each territory. I wish the text back in committee because the liberal ecological approach can and needs a crutch. This crutch is in reality twofold: on the one hand, it is the user, who is considered to be a milk cow, an idiot and, on the other hand, the historical operator, whom you are going to disperse, sell at auction and thus deprive the State of its ability to develop renewable energies respectful of the men and women who work in our country and its ability to foster innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u382	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u383	That is why, given our concerns for the future of the planet, we are very critical of this bill, like the High Climate Council. You're still pretending he's been nice to you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u384	Thank you, my dear colleague. I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u385	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 12 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u386	In the general debate, Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u387	Climate disruption is no longer a distant horizon: it is now a reality that strikes us hard, as evidenced, for example, by hail rains, floods or tropical diseases that appear. The latest reports, including that of the IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – of October 2018, which I have no doubt we have all read, are unanimous: rising temperatures will have an impact on the rise and acidification of the oceans, as well as on biodiversity. If we do not act quickly, it is the future of humanity that will be threatened. In 2015, the Paris Agreement was a first response, with an unprecedented consensus from 195 countries to limit climate change in the coming decades, with the objective of containing the rise in temperatures well below 2 degrees and striving to limit it to 1.5 degrees by 2100. Respect for the Paris Agreement must be our compass, and it is for this purpose that the Government has presented, as early as July 2017, the climate plan, which we have been implementing for the past two years. If we have undertaken many projects, the last few months have shown us that the French want us to go faster, further on the ecological and energy transition, while accompanying them in these changes. I believe that this is really what we are doing with this bill, by setting ambitious but pragmatic goals, not to lie to the French, and by providing conversion solutions – I am thinking in particular of the end of coal-fired power plants. The articles in the bill illustrate our vision of France's future energy and climate policy, with the objective of achieving carbon neutrality in 2050, reducing primary fossil energy consumption by 40% and reducing the share of nuclear energy in our energy mix to 50% by 2035, as well as closing coal-fired power plants in 2022. These are tangible measures, which mark our willingness to fully engage in an energy transition worthy of the name. The work in the Committee on Economic Affairs has made it possible to enrich the text, improve certain articles and maintain overall coherence. The amendments that I defended on behalf of the Group symbolized our desire to send strong messages on subjects that affect the daily lives of the French: energy renewal, the support of employees and the territories affected by the closures of coal-fired power plants, the participation of citizens and territories in the ecological transition, but also the development of renewable energies, particularly photovoltaics, and the support for certain developing sectors, such as hydrogen and biogas. I quote here only a few emblematic contributions from a large group, and the consideration of the amendments in the public sitting will enable us, I am sure, to go further. As part of the public debate, our group will, in particular, make amendments to enable Parliament to play a real role in the development of France's energy policy – which is what we all call for – and to increase the share of low-carbon and renewable hydrogen in industrial hydrogen production. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The working Republic Group will commit itself to this text, which illustrates our will and pragmatism on energy issues. There can be no question of ideological posture when we talk about the future of the planet and of our fellow citizens. It is the philosophy of our group, which aims to achieve results and never dissociate the resources allocated from the stated objectives, to listen to everyone and, finally, to set clear lines on which the actors of change can rely. As you will understand, this bill brings strong solutions to bring out our vision of tomorrow's energy: more sober, more efficient and more respectful of the planet. As Al Gore said, ecological transition and global warming are no longer a "wrong truth"; We need to act now and now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u388	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u389	I mean, a little common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u390	As we prepare to legislate on such important topics as energy, climate, greenhouse gas reduction and the energy transition, our country is facing a heat wave that could break record heat in many territories. No one is talking about it, but it will considerably worsen the drought that some territories have been experiencing since last summer. As a Member of Parliament for Haute-Savoie, I would like to inform you that the zero-degree isotherm was 4700 metres away this afternoon, and will probably reach the summit of Mont Blanc on Thursday or Friday afternoon. At this point, I regret the lack of ambition of the energy and climate bill, which, in my view, includes insufficient progress. We should have been able to address a number of issues that cannot be addressed in this discussion. Given that there is usually only one or two texts on energy and climate in a Parliament, I fear that this will be a missed step, even if I acknowledge that the text has been amended in committee, from eight to forty-six articles. As has been said by a number of my colleagues – I am thinking of Laure de La Raudière, Julien Aubert or Daniel Fasquelle – an important part of the text came to us forty-eight hours before the public sitting, in the form of amendments with additional articles imposed by the Government. Finally, I regret – and you will acknowledge my consistency in this matter, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen – the permanent partitioning between, on the one hand, global warming and the fight against greenhouse gases, and, on the other hand, the fight against air pollution and the reduction of air pollutants. Over the past 30 years, all governments have made the same mistakes, not acting at the same time on greenhouse gases and air pollutants; They have taken measures sometimes in one direction, sometimes in the other, thus favouring, for example, emissions of fine particles or of Nox – oxides of nitrogen. However, scientific research has demonstrated, and this has been the object of my struggle for ten years, that we must take into account the rise in temperatures and all the air pollutants – CO, fine particles, Nox, ozone, which we have been talking about for three days, but also polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, or PAHs. The High Climate Council is not, ladies and gentlemen, an excuse to remind you of the creation of this law: the President of the Republic announced it last November; it is in place and has issued its first report. So it's not the High Council that's gonna make the big night! However, I regret that it is not called the "High Council for Climate and Air Quality".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u391	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u392	As part of our work, I also wanted a number of advances and experiments to be included in the law for areas covered by a plan to protect the atmosphere. As I said, I regret that a number of issues cannot be addressed. Minister of State, there is a real difference between the engagement of the future President of the Republic during the election campaign and this bill. If that were not the case, you would not need legislation. The fact that the majority and the Government are obliged to submit a bill to Parliament attests to this development. We know the changes that have taken place. The date on which the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix should be reduced to 50% was thus extended from 2025 to 2035. As Julien Aubert explained very well, the provisional decrease in COs' emissions was explained by the fact that there was less need for heating. There is no debate between those who favour competition and those who oppose it. It is the cost of energy for individuals that matters to us all. We do not want the cost of energy, in a broad sense, to explode for individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u393	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u394	This is going to happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u395	Historically, France has been able to defend and ensure a reasonable energy cost. I regret that we cannot talk about hydropower: it is not philosophy, it is not talking in the vacuum, it is simply to be aware that hydroelectricity is the first source of green energy in our country and accounts for 12% of electricity production. Hydroelectricity is not just a source of production, it occupies a majority place in the cooling of atomic power plants. Half of the electrical energy, provided for by your law by 2035, must be cooled by water. Dams play a major role in this process. With hydropower, we are talking about flood craters, drinking water, agriculture and tourism: it is a pity that we cannot address this issue. Nor will we be able to talk about geothermal energy, because we are still waiting for the recasting of the mining code, nor are we waiting for the issues related to biogas and methanization, and wind. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, we want you to provide answers, Minister of State, and to complete the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u396	Excellent! The text is very insufficient!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u397	Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u398	The energy transition is the most important challenge of our century. In twenty years, we will have to change the ways of thinking that we started to put in place almost two hundred years ago. We're going to have to change how we build our habitats and heating modes, how we move around, and how we move around. We will use only the energy that surrounds us and that nature can renew. This will completely upset the geopolitical balance of the planet, since, I hope, oil will have become a totally secondary product, if not useless, and France will finally have acquired its energy independence. That is what we must strive for. It is a beautiful and immense task that faces us, a very great transition. And as with any transition, if we want to succeed, we need to know how to answer three questions. The first is: why do we have to change? The growing number of demonstrations calling for the protection of the planet, as well as the results of the European elections, show us that a large and growing part of the population has understood why it is necessary to change. Young people on the street are not a threat to governments, but rather a source of encouragement and support for their action towards ecological transitions, particularly the energy transition. The second question that must be answered in order to succeed in a transition is: where do we want to go? The National Low Carbon Strategy, which we are going to incorporate into this bill, responds very well to this question. Indeed, the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050 is a simple and clear goal, which is increasingly transparant and already understood by a large part of our citizens. The third question to be resolved is: which paths will lead us to this new world? This question is much more difficult, and I think we do not yet have the right method to answer it. First of all, we do not take the time to properly explain the situation we are in today, so we too often have misrepresentations of it. As soon as we talk about energy in France, we fall into the rut of the nuclear debate, thus concealing the essence of the problem that we have to solve. I'll explain. If you ask around you the question "What is the share of nuclear energy in our energy mix? Some will answer you 40%, which is not wrong, but corresponds to the share of nuclear in the primary energy produced, a figure which is not necessary for the debate. Others will answer you 70%, which represents the share of nuclear power in electricity production; Since electricity accounts for less than 30% of our energy consumed, the share of nuclear energy in our final energy consumption is less than 20%. In fact, more than 60% of our final energy consumption is of fossil origin, i.e. oil, gas or coal. This gives a better idea of the extent of the work to be done to consume less energy and produce new and renewable energies. It is this information that must be clearly explained to the French. It should also be explained that 40% of our energy consumption is used to heat us, 30% to move us, and 20% to industry. We need to communicate these simple and clear figures to the French so that everyone understands where we need to concentrate our efforts. We must embark the entire population on the energy transition, but the first to embark are the parliamentarians, Minister of State. If you fail to embark them on this change, you will not embark the population either. The National Assembly must be able to assist the Government in this transition of the century; It must be able to exchange and decide, for example, on the following subjects: how much wind and solar energy can we produce in the national territory and at what places? How do we structure our hydro and nuclear energies to balance the fluctuations in renewable energies? Where to direct public money to isolate our habitats and improve energy efficiency? How much energy can biomass be produced without using agricultural food surfaces? How do we want to use biogas for mobility or heating? How can we quickly develop a clean hydrogen pipeline? Each of these topics may deserve a law. The High Climate Council must prepare these topics so that they can be discussed in the Chamber. As such, the multiannual energy programming, which will be published shortly, will define the new French energy strategy. It is therefore more than necessary to ensure that we give ourselves, in 2019, the means of our ambitions. We need to be particularly vigilant about the development of new energies: I am thinking of hydrogen, which can offer a solution for electrification of transport, or biogas, which has many advantages, such as the recovery of our waste and a sharp reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions. Energy policy is, of course, a policy in favour of the energy transition. Article 34 of the Constitution provides that the rules on the preservation of the environment, which is the main objective of energy programming, are mandatory by law. It therefore seems obvious, for the MODEM and related group, that the guidelines and definition of France's energy policy must be established by law, after consideration by the National Assembly and the Senate. It is all the more obvious to us that we have adopted amendments in committee to introduce the environmental emergency and the climate crisis into this energy bill, a bill whose very title links energy and climate! In order for the energy transition to succeed, we must bring our fellow citizens and involve the whole nation, so that everyone understands the reasons for this transition. A decree of several hundred pages, extremely technical, is not understandable for the French, for those who represent them, or sometimes even for the actors in the sectors concerned. Energy programming is a policy that requires a pedagogy and a real forward-looking vision for our future energy consumption for 2030, 2040 and 2050. That is why I welcome the adoption in committee of the amendment that I have defended, including in the EPP an educational summary accessible to the public. However, this synthesis is not sufficient. We must offer everyone a reasonable and understandable model of what our future energy mix will be, in order to win the support of our citizens. It is the Constitution that requires that the EPP be, first and foremost, a law. Environmental conservation issues are far too important to be fixed in a non-visible manner, without public consultation and transparency. This is a very important issue for my group, which makes it possible to reaffirm Parliament's role in the field of energy policy. Mr rapporteur, you have told us in committee that you do not wish Members to become technicians. It is the responsibility of Members of Parliament, and senators, to determine the objectives of public policies, which they cannot do at the current stage of the normative process in the field of energy. The amendment you are proposing is in the right direction, but it only involves Parliament at the very beginning of the drafting of the PPE. Parliament cannot be confined to the definition of energy objectives. It must be able to identify the essential elements of the energy strategy through a comprehensive approach to production and consumption. These essential definitions affect the percentage quantification, quantity and price of the various sources of energy: balances which, in short, cannot avoid a comprehensive parliamentary debate. We are not asking for an unattainable innovation, since Parliament is already deciding on such multi-annual programmes in the areas of justice and defence. Why could Members be technicians on these two subjects and not on energy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u399	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u400	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, Minister of State, the MODEM and related groups support your bill, but you have understood that we hope for more in the future, and our amendments will reflect that spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u401	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u402	The Energy and Climate Bill, by virtue of its title and the context in which it is presented to us, was to mark a highlight of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium and a major step forward for our country on the path to the energy and ecological transition. The Prime Minister's general policy speech also suggested that France would enter a new era in terms of the ecological transition, the text of which would necessarily be the vector. That is to say, we were surprised to discover that it initially contained only eight articles, essentially technical and lacking a global vision and real means. Alas! the letter of amendment presented on the same day in the Council of Ministers was only intended to recycle in this text the provisions adopted in the law of 22 May 2019 on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE law, on regulated gas and electricity tariffs, which had been censored by the Constitutional Council. However, recycling does contribute to the ecological transition, and I would be happy to do so. I therefore told you, during the examination in committee, that the Socialist and related group would not be satisfied with a text which, if it adapted our energy strategy and objectives in a useful way, provided for few practical arrangements for their implementation. Of course, I agree with you, Article 3 refers to the conditions for the closure of the last four coal-fired power stations as a result of the imposition of a capping mechanism. But if that was your will, why not simply propose a definitive ban on the use of coal to produce electricity in our country? It would have been simpler and clearer. We will make an amendment to that effect, which will also propose the end of the use of heavy fuel oil for electricity generation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u403	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u404	However, we welcome the scheme provided for in the same article, which aims to provide a framework for the support of the employees and the territories concerned. Such a mechanism will now have to be the rule for any ecological transition measures. In view of the weakness of the original text, it was not surprising that more than 700 amendments had been tabled in committee, most of them containing an additional Rule. You could certainly count on Parliament's wisdom to enrich the text and give it more substance. We are talking about energy and climate in the heat of the heat and after extreme weather events that mark our country and remind us that we cannot settle for the minimum. Your text did not provide for the ecological transition of buildings, while residential and tertiary buildings account for 45% of energy consumption. It did not provide for transport, while transport accounted for 31% of national energy consumption. On this last point, our amendments in the mobility guidance bill have been rejected and referred to the Greek calends or, at best, to the finance bill. Fortunately, the debate in committee and the rapporteur's constructive approach, which I welcome, have made some progress. Thus, it was no less than thirty-four additional articles that were adopted, including our amendment aimed at strongly strengthening the obligations relating to the use of roofs in the premises of activities, shops, offices or parking spaces for the production of renewable energy. With regard to the fight against energy coffers, we regret that our amendment aimed at experimenting with a mechanism of advance funds to overcome the pitfall of the rest of the burden has been rejected. If an experiment on leases has been adopted in Article 3c, its scope is far too narrow and its mechanism of capping the receiver unsuitable for areas where housing prices are low. In this way, experimentation will be difficult to expand outside tense areas, unlike our system. With regard to hydropower, we regret that our amendments on the Sanctuary of this strategic sector have been declared inadmissible – as if it had no place in a text on energy and climate! It is somewhat unaware of its strategic role in the energy transition. However, we are pleased that the Prime Minister has announced, as part of his policy statement, his willingness to sanctify this heritage in the coming months. We will defend an amendment aimed at reintroducing into our law the possibility for the concessionaire to increase the power of its installation, in order to optimise the operation of the concession, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives of renewable energy development, without benefiting in return from an extension of the duration of the concession. On this point, the dialogue with you is under way, Minister of State. I hope that we will achieve a satisfactory and ambitious balance during the debate. We will also introduce an amendment to better support our electro-intensive companies, which must remain competitive in a highly competitive market. [[Christine Pires Beaune applauds]] While we still believe that the original text is very largely inadequate, we believe that the work of the committee has been constructive, allowing some progress. If our work continues in the same spirit during the discussion of the text in open session, our voting position may evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u405	Interesting opening!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u406	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u407	So what is the purpose of the text? Defining France's participation in climate change? Amplifying the energy transition of our society and economy? We hope so. In any event, it is a disappointment: we are developing a bill to stick to multi-year energy programming, while the opposite should be done. The bill contains various measures on energy, but it does not allow us to debate the essentials: France's energy policy. Mr President of the Committee, you have admitted this, but, surprisingly, you are assuming that Parliament – the representatives of the people we are – cannot take up the matter when considering a text on energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u408	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u409	We are invited to debate the installation of photovoltaic panels on parking spaces, on which all the political parties – and therefore all the Members – have little or no agreement, but not the energy mix chosen for France, which requires real political choices, sometimes cleavage. What is the place for nuclear power plants, wind turbines – land or sea –, methanization, biomass? We will not discuss it here, or very little, which is very regrettable. We therefore feel that we are facing the fait accompli of the Government's energy choices, as well as the associated costs for public finances and their consequences for our territories. We even have the impression that we are not serving anything on what is essential: we are being imposed on us the multi-annual energy programming as the Government wants, and nothing else! We have just had a great struggle, against the opinion of the rapporteur and with a wise opinion of the Government, to include in the general objectives of energy policy the encouragement and increase of the production of hydropower, on the proposal of our colleague of the majority, Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot! Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, it will take more to get the administration to review its doctrine and dogmas on the development of small hydropower, which would allow renewable electricity to be produced in our territories – many mill owners or water impoundments are ready to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u410	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u411	Recognize that it's a shame! The amendments we tabled to open the debate on developments in the regulation of hydropower and wind energy were all considered inadmissible. Furthermore, we would have liked the bill to allow us to debate other sources of renewable energy, which suffer from problems of social acceptability. This is the case, in particular, of the Earth's wind, which has caused, in places, a veritable mitage of French territory. We are witnessing a real bounty hunt for wind developers. Once obtained, environmental authorizations are sometimes resold several times in five years. This situation leads to real divisions within our rural communes, rising the inhabitants against each other, and is causing lasting damage to some remarkable landscapes, for lack of the means to oversee the development of wind farms. I regret that our amendments to open the debate on the end of life of wind turbines were also considered inadmissible. At present, there is no obligation to dismantle concrete foundations of land wind turbines – even though there are more than 7,000 in our territory –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u412	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u413	... at the risk of further degrading the quality of our soils and damaging biodiversity. Minister of State, the revision of the decree of 23 August 2011 is in your hands, in order to demand the complete removal of concrete foundations. It won't hurt the profitability expected by wind turbine developers, believe me! In the same register, nothing is provided for by law, in a comprehensive manner, for the recycling of such equipment, which represents a significant resource potential. In the end, our fellow citizens will have been more involved in the drafting of the bill than parliamentarians, thanks to the consultation organized by the national commission for public debate. If we share the objective of carbon-free energy production – as is the case in France with electricity – we have differences on how it is implemented, with a view to achieving the carbon-neutral objective by 2050. Moreover, we have defined it in the law, in terms different from those adopted by the Paris Agreement, in the absence of a European consensus on its definition and inclusion among the objectives of our continent. The ambition enshrined in the law seems commendable to me. We need to have this goal on the line. However, adding a definition without consultation with other countries is very dangerous. By 2050, we have time to agree on a definition. Therefore, why want to be the first country in Europe to include it in the law? The "first-of-class" effect, with all the pride it gives to the adoption of a definition, without impact assessment, can have a negative impact on our economy. In addition, the draft law recognizes the end of the operation of coal-fired power plants, which account for one third of the greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u414	Electric!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u415	That's brave! It's about time! However, the chosen method is intriguing. Does it not involve a risk of litigation? What will be the cost to the State of the accompanying measures that the Government intends to take through ordinances? So many subjects the impact study does not answer! The other major issue addressed by the bill is the policy of energy renovation of buildings. On this essential subject, many provisions, not linked to the original text and impact assessment, have been added in committee, forming a total of seven articles. To believe that Chapter II of Title IV of the ELAN Act, on energy renewal, was at least insufficient! I therefore hope that the Minister responsible for the city and housing, Julien Denormandie, will attend our debates. Indeed, the question of government control of this policy arises. According to the ADEME – Agency for the Environment and Energy Management –, of the 5 million individual houses that underwent renovations between 2014 and 2016, only a quarter have increased by at least one class of energy performance diagnosis, which means that three quarters have not improved their energy performance. Thus, despite significant investments, improvements in energy consumption are not on track. There is no doubt that there is a need to improve the coordination of actors and the monitoring of performance! We will have an opportunity to discuss this, which is an excellent thing. Before concluding, I will address the mechanism of regulated access to historical nuclear energy – ARENH. Minister of State, you are proposing to change the ceiling from 100 terawatt hours to 150 terawatt hours. It is a short-term solution and an apprentice-sorcerer. On this and other points, we would have liked to have more detailed discussions and more impact studies. This choice can have major consequences for both EDF and its competitors. We would already like to consider the disappearance of this system, which is complicated and not working well. On this point, we await the Government's proposals. In conclusion, if the text seems ill-prepared and inconsistent – as demonstrated by the letter of amendment to the bill and the passage of thirty new articles in addition to the original twelve – it nevertheless contains interesting provisions. That is why we could be led – subject to the debate ahead – to support it. In order to do this, we hope that you will commit yourself to presenting a genuine multi-annual energy programming law, without reducing it to a simple decree, Minister of State. We also wish to see a solemn vote on the text or a deferred vote. Nothing like that seems to be planned. We will probably vote on the night of Friday to Saturday, and probably at an impossible hour, with a small number of Members. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I'm sorry. I therefore ask the members of the Conference of Presidents of the National Assembly, in particular those who are members of the majority, to reconsider their decision and to offer each Member an opportunity to vote individually, either in a solemn vote or in a deferred vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u416	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u417	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u418	As often happens when it comes to environmental policy and the pressing ecological transition of our entire economy, there is, I dare say, a gulf between the Government's announcements and the provisions we are considering in Parliament. Last example: two weeks ago, the Prime Minister supported in this forum that act II of the quinquennium would be that of ecological acceleration. His words still resonate in the Chamber. He said, "I don't want to be the man of the announcement effects, but... of the commitments made." These commitments take place in this text, a small law in its content and in its ambition. Perhaps I should have adjusted this observation a little, given the addition of many articles to the text, but it must be noted that its ambition remains very modest. In fact, the original text was mainly limited to revising long-term objectives. With this minimal bill, we miss out on a real energy law, which is still under the control of climate and environmental emergencies. That is why we have sent you an open letter, Minister of State, together with sixteen civil society organisations. It was co-signed by thirty-four deputies from various groups, some of whom are members of the majority. The first report of the High Council for Climate, devoted to carbon neutrality, has reinforced our conviction. Indeed, it notes the shortcomings of the climate policies of this government – and previous governments, recognize it – and calls on it to review its policy to combat global warming, in particular by placing ecology at the heart of public policies. Of course, Article 1 of the text sets out more ambitious targets than those previously adopted for reducing greenhouse gases. We welcome the desire to divide emissions by a factor greater than or equal to six in order to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. However, we need to assess our potential for capture of anthropogenic emissions. More generally, consideration should also be given to replacing the carbon emissions indicator with the carbon footprint indicator. It is always good – I address our colleague Julien Aubert, who has disappeared –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u419	He evaporated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u420	... to measure carbon emissions, but let us never forget that measuring the real carbon footprint of the sixth world economic power means taking into account what we import. Article 1 also takes note of the postponement to 2035 of the 50% reduction of nuclear energy in our energy mix. Minister of State, we have taken note of your arguments that it was not possible to achieve this goal by 2025. Even if nuclear energy is decarbonised, we must agree, it raises other major and even vital problems. To ignore it would be a fault, and even a crime, given the risks we would run to our children. By 2025, twenty-two French reactors will have reached 40 years of operation and will require substantial work, which will be financed at the expense of a policy of investment in renewable energies, even as the sector matures. On the other hand, the multiple failures of Flamanville's EPR – Evolutionary Power Reactor – have cast doubt on its competitiveness. You yourself raised the issue, Minister of State. I understand that we are at 12 billion, and that the launch of the EPR will take place after the current quinquennium. We did not achieve this in the course of Nicolas Sarkozy's, or in the course of his successor, François Hollande. Will we get there during Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium? The future will tell. In the meantime, in any case, the billions are marching. To date, we have no answer to another simple question: how much, in the end, will the kilowatt-hour of electricity produced by this EPR cost? I would add a criticism that could be addressed to a number of multi-annual programming documents: the objectives are all the more ambitious because they are distant over time. That is why we propose, for the nuclear-related reduction trajectory, to return to a sequence of targets, the first of which would be a reduction to 65% by 2025 – this is not so unattainable – and then to 50% by 2030, to reach 30% by 2035. That is what our country's proactive commitment could be like what Germany has done. Where the ecological transition is detrimental to the maintenance of economic activity, we must propose courageous measures to support new jobs, so that the changes at work do not affect employees and the working class. I am of course thinking of Article 3, which provides for the introduction of a ceiling on greenhouse gas emissions leading de facto to the closure of the four coal-fired plants. However, contrary to what our colleague Laure de La Raudière has just said in this forum, emissions from these plants do not represent 30% of the greenhouse gases of energy in France, but 1% to 2%. If I'm wrong, minister, you'll complete it. The closure of these plants is above all a symbol, in an approach that I support – as you know very well, Minister of State, since you have done me the honor of coming to my constituency, to know Gardanne and his coal-fired power plant. These 1 to 2 per cent are a symbol that we must give to the President of the Republic and to the Government, who are working internationally to encourage other countries, where the share of electric coal is extremely high, to reduce it as a matter of urgency. This is what we can see with the German coal-exit plan. But these closures cannot be achieved without accompaniment to limit the social drama that will result. In committee, of course, we have specified accompanying measures that could benefit employees, including subcontractors, but we need to go further, Mr Minister of State. The accompaniment of these men and women must be our priority. That is why we also need to know what funding will be devoted to it. Let me make a parallel with Germany: EUR 40 billion is available to accompany the closure of coal-fired power stations, the transformation of the territories and the conversion of employees whose future will be threatened, since they will no longer have jobs. In Gardanne, too, conversion to biomass would have led to a potential ecological disaster, with a waste of forest resources. I recall that during Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium a colossal biomass project was launched: 800,000 tonnes of wood for 30% energy efficiency. All available wood from the Spanish border to the Italian border would have converged to a single site, for extremely poor energy efficiency, at a cost of 130 euros per megawatt, which was fixed by the CRE 4 tender. At a colossal cost – 1.4 billion euros – we would have taken all the wood from the Spanish border to the Italian border, all for 30% energy efficiency! At some point, we must come back from such mistakes and give meaning to our plans. We will have the opportunity, during the review of the articles, to discuss the improvements that we have made in committee, in particular on photovoltaics, but also on subjects that will not fail to cause debate, such as environmental assessment. But this text is characterized less by its content than by what it leaves in the shadows. The hidden themes are indeed essential parts of our energy policy. I could mention the problems related to the heat or cold networks – even though they are vectors of local renewable energy – that are not or are not being addressed. Even if they are difficult to afford, we have to talk about them. As for the amendments relating to hydropower, they were simply declared inadmissible, as if they were alien to energy policy. This has already been said, but I repeat and insist: it is the French model of concessions that is threatened. Another way of generating sustainable electricity is hardly mentioned: the development of wind turbines, particularly offshore. We applauded the success of the call for tenders for a park off Dunkirk, a success of the Government – as I say very simply and very directly – but the deployment of this mode of electricity generation must be accelerated, because it is a sector of remarkable competitiveness, and it is mature. France, with its maritime facades, has a major role to play in this area. Let me incise in this respect. We know that some facilities, including wind turbines, may be the subject of mistrust by some residents and political actors, such as our colleague who preceded me in the gallery. This mistrust leads to numerous remedies that penalize the deployment of certain equipment. We are convinced, Minister of State, that the energy revolution will take place on the basis of the territories, their actors and their elected representatives. Projects, including land wind projects, must be taken over by the elected representatives of the territories. We regret that neither the low-carbon strategy, nor the multi-annual energy programming, nor much less this bill is a remedy to the lack of coordination of the different levels – state, regions and EPCI – in the governance of the energy transition. That's a major point. A great absence, finally, of the original version of the text is housing: nothing on the issues of habitat improvement. However, we must recall the scourge of energy insecurity, which affects more than 12 million French people, mostly modest households. These families gloomy in winter in apartments equipped with toaster radiators, real financial abysses; These same families are now suffocating under the heatwave. Let us not forget that the construction sector accounts for 45% of final energy consumption and 27% of greenhouse gas emissions. That's what we need to do! The energy renovation of buildings is therefore an absolute emergency. If energy is a commodity, it is also a commodity of basic necessity. Initial progress was made during the examination of the text in committee and is moving in the right direction. I am thinking of strengthening the obligation to provide information on the level of energy performance of housing, or of making the rent review conditional on achieving a certain level of performance, or of sequestering part of the proceeds from the sale of a class F or G property. [[Mr. Jean-Charles Colas-Royapplaudit]] I cannot finish because we have only ten minutes, Mr President, but I still want to say that the Libertés et territoires Group is entering the debate before us in a positive way. We'll be on the rendezvous if you're on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u421	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u422	"If the planet were to take care of itself with words, France would be the world champion of ecological virtue." That, Minister of State, is what officials in your department say. To highlight the gap between your speeches and your actions, they create an ecological defense committee. They have for your policy words that you would have found unbearable from us. Let me open the quotation marks: "verbal inaction". I hope that the words of your officials, attached to the ecological cause and without the means to implement a real environmental policy, will make you think. If you do not change your attitude, you condemn yourself to acting only in an emergency. The college patent was moved because of the heat wave. But what will you do on the day when heat waves will no longer be the exception but the norm at this time of year? We need urgent, ambitious and resolute action. It is not by removing your tie, Minister of State – you have handed it over – that you will effectively fight climate change. Then get her back, throw her on the floor, everybody doesn't care, but act! Immediately stop your free trade policy at everything, and first of all our accession to CETA, completely archaic, which organizes the great move of the world, but above all the end of the world. Keep your promise to save the Perpignan-Rungis train line, whose closure threatens to put 25,000 trucks back on the roads every year. This train is today the symbol of your criminal inaction, while 67,000 people already die prematurely each year from air pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u423	The incumbent operator failed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u424	I'm talking, minister, thank you. Where is your ecology of action to prevent the artificialization of land, which is an aggravating factor of global warming? Today work has begun on the site of the Gonesse triangle in view of the unnecessary project of Europa City. A peak on this hot day! The High Council for Climate, created by Emmanuel Macron himself, sounds the alarm about the abyssal inadequacies of your policy. Really shut down coal-fired power plants, rather than bypassing your own targets, leaving open the possibility that these plants will continue to run after 2022. It would be more effective than a change of attitude. Observe the presidential commitments by prohibiting the rental of energy colanders, while 3.5 million families are cold in their homes. Verbal inaction sums up this bill. Your blind faith in nuclear energy is reaffirmed, with the refusal to meet the commitments of the 2015 law and the postponement of the reduction to 50% of nuclear power production from 2025 to 1935. You are not doing anything – and we have been asking you about this for a long time – for the subcontractors, who are still dealing with 80% of the nuclear sector. Last week, a stone was added to the nuclear madness building: the disaster of the EPR continues with the defective solderings. The myth of cheap and efficient nuclear power is collapsing: ten years behind schedule and more than 7 billion extra costs! Nuclear energy is an energy of the past. You were convinced of this yourself, Mr. Minister of State, who, just three years ago, wanted to get out of this energy by 2050. I gave you, a few months ago, our proposal for a law for the release of nuclear and carbon fuels, and the switch to 100% renewable energy by 2050. When I look at your bill, I'm afraid you've made an inattentive reading of it! Ecologically, in your law, the account is certainly not there. Your energy policy is under the sign of absurd continuity, at a time when the whole of our production matrix and energy consumption should be changed. The account isn't there. You welcomed, Minister of State, an amendment adopting the state of ecological and climate emergency. We are pleased that you are pleased with the inclusion in the law of a proposal that we made more than a month ago, thus relaying a request from the youth climate movement. You have therefore joined us in the words, but no trace of an ambitious policy of ecological planning. Without further measures, France will be 11 points below its target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Goals, words, postures: this is what your climate policy is all about. The associations involved in the ecological battle call you to the action and realization of the ambitions that you claim to have; the officials of your ministry as well. But you don't hear anything or anyone. This law says at least as much by what it implements as by the crucial subjects it carefully avoids. Nothing about EDF's structure, nothing about dam concession, nothing about fossil fuel subsidies. There is nothing about the practical ways of deploying a truly articulated energy transition to the urgent need to reduce our consumption, improve energy efficiency and increase to 100% renewable energy. If you continue to have blind confidence in the market for these three objectives, do not expect your policies to produce the desired results. The capitalist market is unable to cope with the ecological challenge because it is constantly producing the conditions for aggravating climate change and accelerating the extinction of species. Market ecology is, depending on the level of consciousness of those who defend it, a lie or an illusion. How can we think, in fact, that Total or General Electric can be guided by anything other than profit? In fact, Total seems rather interested in the great receptivity of some Members to its amendments tabled in turn. I would like to stress one of them, defended by majority deputies and taken over, in a mitigated manner, by the Government. EDF is currently obliged to make available to the private sector, at a cost, a share of its production of up to a quarter. This obligation is laid down by European provisions. Admit that it is still a great deal, for those who support market liberalisation, to force one of the producers to resell to its competitors at the cost of production. This situation makes no sense, except to destroy with method the remains of the public energy service. Total and its Direct Energy subsidiary do not want to stop there. They call, by the voice of some Members, for the doubling of this share attributed to its competitors by EDF itself. But why are you forced to distract the market that you claim to be free? Why? Simply because your magnificent reasonings don't work, and the energy market is not meant to be deregulated. Before State energy companies, private companies did not supply certain areas of the territory due to a lack of profitability. I would like you to warn the yellow vests in the rural areas of our country that your manoeuvres will eventually lead to the same results. In the medium term, if you remove the regulated energy tariff for gas and electricity, it is the door open at differentiated prices throughout the country. At that time, you will go and explain the miracles of privatization to those who, in rural areas, are already unable to live from their work. You will see if the yellow vests can only be released in the fall, when this summer you will increase the electricity prices again! These tariffs must be increased to ensure that the regulated tariff is no less expensive than that of the market. What a great idea! It would be so unfortunate if the most precarious of our fellow citizens could pay their electricity and gas bills, light up and heat up properly. Privatization is the death of any environmental policy. How can an energy policy be coordinated if it is left to the private sector? Liberalisation of the energy market is there to benefit large private producers, nothing more, nothing less. Your policy is to entrust Total and Suez with the energy transition. Verbose inaction, dangerous inaction. The same applies to EDF's current restructuring. The constant political principle of recent years is based on a formula: socialization of losses, privatization of profits. In order to meet the Commission's requirements, you will therefore divest EDF's profitable channels to the private sector, and leave it to the citizens to fill the bottomless financial gulf of nuclear energy every year. Also look at the scandal of the La Méde factory, which is going to turn thanks to deforestation in Indonesia: where are the climate goals, at the very concrete end of this free market that you love? This freedom is death. The market left to itself is assured destruction. Your passion for markets is reflected in this piece of legislation: to the extent that none of them is effective, you continue to create new ones. Isn't the energy market green? Let's create a carbon market! Is the carbon market a complete failure? Whatever, let's create an equally inefficient market for energy saving certificates! It's not enough, its effects are ridiculous? It doesn't matter, let's develop the market for renewable energy certificates of guarantee! This forward race is at least as ridiculous as it is pathetic. This free trade in electricity is absolutely contrary to the fundamental ecological principle, that of the rapprochement between places of production and places of consumption of energy. With the mechanism opened by this last market, you can buy a certificate of renewable energy origin, but that would come from a Spanish or Polish company. These are the wonders of capitalist abstraction which, always, in agriculture as in the management of biodiversity, in the protection of the seas as in energy policies, denies with the same obstinacy the concrete reality of the spaces in which we live. Bringing energy production sources closer to places of consumption means, however, allowing our entire system to become more resilient to climate change. No one will deal with the energy side of the environmental problem without firmly relying on public authority. We need a unified public energy service capable of coordinating the major means of energy production, while leaving small businesses or production cooperatives free. We need to build the public energy service, which, under the guidance of the Office of the High Commissioner for Environmental Planning, will be able to face the challenges ahead. This is a reasonable prospect. You are on the side of those who rob us of public power, as shown by your irresponsible attitude on the privatization of Paris airports and hydroelectric dams. We are on the side of common safety and the preservation of our collective strength in the face of the troubled times that come. Untiringly, against the powers of money that make the cynical bet of the end of humanity, we will defend a happier future and better living conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u425	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u426	The bill proposes to replace the target of dividing greenhouse gas emissions by four by 2050 with the target of carbon neutrality by the target of four by 2050. The work in committee has made it possible to define precisely this objective, which we agree with. However, it must not overshadow the mandatory halving of energy consumption by 2050, which, in our view, must be the priority. In terms of energy, primary energy consumption of fossil fuels would be reduced by 40% by 2030. This is a more ambitious objective, which we also agree with, given that the French energy mix still feeds almost 40% of oil, contrary to the idea of a nuclear-free France. As far as nuclear power is concerned, you confirm the target of a 50% reduction in its share of electricity production, by postponing the deadline to 2035. Nuclear power is outside the scope of climate debate, since it allows our electricity production to be decarbonized at more than 90%. If nuclear is involved, it is for problems of cost and waste management as well as because public opinion is legitimately sensitive to safety problems. The Communist MEPs had voted in 2015 to cut nuclear power to 50% by 2025, under three conditions: a reduction in energy consumption; increasing the power of renewable energies; security of supply for the French. These conditions remain valid, but the uncertainties and tensions are much higher, decisions much more difficult to take. It is necessary to consider the closure of twelve to fourteen reactors by 2035, of which four to six by 2028. But what obligation of result will the State impose on employees and territories? It's not just about accompanying. In addition, our park has been in operation for forty years; the cost and duration of the work to be carried out are still unknown. Finally, new reactors – but of what type? – will have to be built to ensure security of supply and safety of production. In short, the strategic plan requested of EDF by the State is sorely lacking in our debate to assess the financial, industrial and social stakes of future transformations, while this multi-annual energy programming is revisitable. I want to warn you: the Fessenheim scenario must not happen again. You give priority to shutting down and closing down the four coal-fired power stations in our country. None of the employees of these plants will tell you that they are not aware of the inevitable end of the use of this fossil fuel; This is why they have made their expertise available to you in order to propose a process of production from recycled waste. However, you refuse to examine this alternative while the closure of these four power plants without any other form of litigation in 2020-2021 can put the French electricity grid in difficulty to pass the winter peaks of consumption, at the risk of having to import electricity from German coal-fired power plants! Finally, your bill, which could be said to be ambitious, does not sufficiently take into account the concrete reality to which the population could be exposed: security of supply that could be degraded, with the generalization of erasure procedures. As we have said, energy consumption must be the emergency lever for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in the transport and housing sectors. However, the laws adopted and budgetary choices in this area are turning their backs on the modal shift towards cleaner transport. As for the thermal renovation of the habitat, it is atonement. Billions, that's where they have to be given priority! As for the accelerated development of renewable energies, hydropower is in the expectation of the renewal of concessions, which risks de-optimizing the contribution of the first renewable energy in France. For terrestrial wind and solar, their limits must be said: they are intermittent and non-pilotable. It is not by chance that Germany, which has invested massively in wind and solar energy, has created an immense fossil-based back-up capacity – today coal, tomorrow gas from Russia. So, in our view, there will only be a reasonable share of renewable solar and terrestrial wind energy to be achieved. Their progress may also suffer from handicaps, when these projects run counter to other uses of the territories – agricultural, forestry or related to the preservation of biodiversity. On this point, the loss of the environmental authority's prerogatives under section 4 of the Act constitutes a perilous act. We believe that they should be encouraged: heat networks and biogas with the future promised to it. Finally, on the articles on energy pricing, added to the text at the last minute, my colleague Sébastien Jumel explained our position to you. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] As it stands, therefore, your bill does not appear to us to be pragmatic or sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u427	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u428	This bill has sometimes been dubbed "small energy law", no doubt to emphasize that the Government wanted it to be both pragmatic and concise. The ambition is not to replay the game of long-term goals, which have given rise to enough debate in the past, nor to open an auction on new ambitions, which would be set on such horizons that neither you nor I would be there to assume them. This initial spirit is, I think, preserved; in its obsession with pragmatism, in its search for sincerity in its sober commitments, it may finally be more ambitious than others who have preceded it. For it is no longer a matter of saying, but of doing. Others have already presented the text as a whole; Also, let me concentrate on a subject that is dear to me: the energy renovation of buildings. Here too, there is an urgent need to act. This emergency is first of all social, because almost 5 million households live in a situation of energy insecurity: their homes are poorly isolated and do not allow them to protect themselves properly from heat, in periods of heat like the one we are going through today, or to heat up enough in winter. Unaccommodation, which covers part of the issue of thermal passageways, now has measured consequences on health, on education, on psychological well-being, on the social inclusion of those living in such conditions. These situations are not anecdotal; they are no longer acceptable, and solutions can and must be found. Giving everyone the opportunity to live in decent and decent housing is a measure of social justice; It is one of these measures that frees and offers opportunities to the most modest of our citizens. Because you're not really free when you don't know how to pay your heating bill! This emergency is also environmental. The construction sector accounts for almost half of the final energy consumed in France; It accounts for almost a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. If we really want to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050 – and I believe that this is an ambition shared by all parliamentarians, regardless of their political affiliation – then we must be ambitious in the means we will devote to the energy renovation of buildings. Today, we are hesitant about the right way to climb this first step. It is reasonable, to hesitate, to wonder what will be the fairest measure! The vigour of our debates will show, I am sure, that we are all aware of the complexity of the subject, and that we are all committed to finding the measure of balance that will enable us to live up to our commitments, all of which are just for all our fellow citizens. It is normal to be hesitant when we are about to make such ambitious commitments, and we are planning to keep them. That is, in fact, what makes me respect this Government: it does not sign a cheque without provision. The subject is also highly sensitive, as the situation is not uniform. If it is true that 1.2 million thermal colanders offered for rent are owned by very rich owners, and that they could be considered as making the effort to provide their tenants with a renovated housing, it is also true, on the contrary, that 300,000 to 400,000 thermal colanders are rented by people themselves modest or very modest. While it is true that the real estate value sometimes flies away in such proportions that it is no longer even useful to rent its property to enrich itself, in other places, on the other hand, the whole house is not even worth the price of the works that would restore it. However, the arrangements on which we will agree in the coming hours must at the same time embrace these very varied realities. Let us therefore discuss at length, if necessary; weigh the pros and cons; Let us date and review the discussion of the finance bill, which will contain certain measures, on the public service of the energy performance of the housing or the transformation of the tax credit for the energy transition, for example. Let us also commit ourselves to relaying the mechanisms that exist in our territories: there are many of them, and I am well placed to tell you that outside, we did not wait for this bill to move forward on housing renewal. Yes, progress still needs to be made, but many tools are mature, under the careful guidance of the Government. Soon fully deployed, they will accompany all households in their work. For almost two years I have been trying to change this subject, I have developed a deep sense of humility. Humility, first of all, vis-à-vis those who were already fighting long before us to make it progress, and who do not lose anything of their passion – even if they all agree that we are not moving forward fast enough. Associations, professional organisations, politicians, public or private actors, I would like to thank them sincerely for their unwavering commitment. Humility, then, in view of the immensity and complexity of the task, because yes, it is frightening, when one understands the subject a little, to commit to renovate the thermal colanders in ten years. We wonder how we're going to do it, and looking at this Everest from the renovation of the whole park to a BBC level in thirty years, it's overwhelming! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yet, it is not possible to escape; That is the objective we must set ourselves, for our most precarious citizens and for future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must be both ambitious and concrete on this subject, because it is no longer a question of saying, but of doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u429	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u430	Stimulated by the quote of François Mauriac by the rapporteur, I will look for my words at Péguy, quoted by Bruno Latour in an edifying interview published in Le Monde last month. "The apocalypse is exciting," said Bruno Latour. He added: "Péguy understood this: the modern world deprives us of our ability to beget, this loss is a tragedy." On the eve of World War I, Péguy had already perceived this risk as being experienced today by the next generation, the "climate" generation. This is a fine lesson given to us today. Our colleagues unanimously recalled the challenge facing our generation today. [[Smile]] I will try to put forward, in a concrete and pragmatic way, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the Socialist and related group, which wishes to contribute positively to the search for solutions. A first idea is, even if it does not fall within the scope of the bill, in the need for a large green investment plan that can derogate from the 3% rule, because it must be considered as investments, not operating expenses – it is our life insurance. One day we will have to go beyond European standards and agree to spend those 30 billion, including 10 billion public funds. On the household side, if we can intelligently reorient the savings of the French – we took a first step in the PACTE law, we can go further with life insurance and other financial products – we have significant resources there. Companies have them themselves. Thirty billion, if we derogate from the 3% rule, it would enable us to meet our needs for sustainable mobility through a plan such as we were unable to implement in the mobility law, to equip ourselves with the habitat plan that our colleague has described at the moment, and to give substance to other ideas, such as those carried by my colleague Jean-Louis Bricout. Finally, I had pleaded in this direction but without success, this would give the territories financial means, not only for these operating laboratories, namely ecological transition contracts, but also for them to finance their own solutions – they have proven their capacity in this area. To spend 30 billion, including 10 public dollars, on territories, mobility, housing, means to exceed the 3% dogma and to reason in terms of investment rather than operation. The second idea we propose is to make justice the leak line of all our decisions. This involves sharing, fighting waste and all indecent uses of energy. We will propose a sobriety plan in air transport, for all optional or dilatory trips. Another of our proposals is for night lighting. Above all, I would like us to introduce into this law, perhaps for the first time, the idea of a plan, a national strategy, a road map for sobriety in the use of digital technologies. This use is, in fact, growing exponentially and could take a delusional part in our uses of tomorrow. This will also have to be taken care of. Justice also requires a policy of prevention. For working on these issues, I know that environmental health related to climate change will be a major issue. To carry out a policy of prevention for good environmental health is to create a level playing field for our citizens. Finally, tens of thousands of employees will have to be accompanied with a dedicated fund, which will change their jobs, the territories that will change industries, and the sectors that will have to be transferred, in order to meet the challenges posed by the ecological transition. We'll be working on the finance bill. Minister of State, I ask you again, as I did a little more than eight days ago, in a contributing and conciliatory tone, for a picture summarizing fossil fuels subsidized in various forms by the state. It's not all or nothing. And if some of your arguments have convinced us, other fossil fuel subsidies can be reduced. We will have to deal with these issues. Can we have a picture, so that we can discuss it in an informed way? I have no doubt that you will respond positively to this request. As far as renewable energy is concerned, we have seen, throughout last week's debates, how controversial they are all, which we will have to overcome if we are not to be bogged down and to be at the rendezvous of history. I propose that the key issue of their consistency and overall ecological performance become the lead wire of their choice. Finally, I will not be with you tomorrow, but, continuing the same fight, I will present the book that I co-edited with two academics on the issue of soil, not only with regard to food sovereignty and biodiversity, but also with regard to the fight against climate change. Welcomed by Benoist Apparu to the Planet A World Forum, we will present this book to ministers, European parliamentarians, who will then discuss it. I would like to convince you, Minister of State, that soil is one of the major political subjects of the 21st century. I would also like to comment on Pascal Canfin's false cleavage, but I will do so in the rest of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u431	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1290.u432	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on energy and climate. The meeting is adjourned.
