ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill by Mrs Laetitia Avia and several of her colleagues to combat hate on the Internet (No. 1785, 2062, 1989).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u2	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u3	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the community leaders and the representatives of the platforms that give us the honour of attending our debates. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] When I was 17 and was about to enter Sciences Po, my family doctor told me: "Laetitia, above all, don't do politics. We'll keep bringing you back to your skin color, and you'll become an anti-discrimination activist. So it is with a certain sense of fatality that I present to you the bill to combat hatred on the Internet: I do not hide it from you, it carries in it my story, that of a woman who no longer accepts to be insulted and treated as a negress on social networks. Unfortunately, I know that it also bears your stories, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of your political colour, when you are attacked not for your opinions, but for what you are in your flesh. And I know too much about the history of thousands of our fellow citizens who are victims or witnesses on the Internet of serious attacks on our common foundation: human dignity. It is therefore an honour for me to present you with a text which, I hope, will change the situation for all those who are victims of expressions of hatred on account of their alleged race, religion, nationality, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability. What I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, is to make it clear that what is not tolerated on a bus, in a restaurant, in the public area should not be tolerated on the Internet either. What I propose to you is to protect our freedom of expression, to hurt someone every time they leave social networks or to hesitate to express themselves for fear of being subjected to racist, anti-Semitic, anti-Muslim, homophobic, sexist, mandiphobic attacks, and many more. What I am proposing is that if the Internet has become a hell for many of our fellow citizens, it must not be a fatality. We have a responsibility to ensure that the Internet remains a place of exchange, opportunity, communication and information, not the playground of harassment professionals who know too much that they can harm others without being worried. What I propose is to open your eyes to our use of the Internet and social networks and to the place they take today in our existence, to end with a view of the spirit that would distinguish what is happening in real life, on the one hand, from the horrors that can be experienced online, on the other hand. Finally, I suggest you write a new page of our digital report. Self-regulation is no longer enough, and the status quo is not an option. I repeat, what is not tolerated on the street must not be tolerated on the Internet. It is in this sense that I conducted a consultation with Karim Amellal and Gil Taïeb with the various stakeholders – platforms, associations, magistrates, police and academics. On September 20, we provided the Prime Minister with twenty recommendations, the translation of which is in this bill. The core of the text is the obligation for large platforms to remove clearly hateful content within a maximum of 24 hours of reporting. To implement it, we create a new crime, tailor-made and placed under the control of the judge. In order to ensure vitality and efficiency of the withdrawal obligation, we also give lungs to the new regulation: the obligations of means to the platforms. They will have to put in place a single alert button, which will be an alert button identified by all and allowing to denounce illegal content. Platforms will also have an obligation to equip themselves with proportionate human and technological means to ensure moderation of content. They will be subject to transparency, user information and internal audit requirements regarding the removal of hate content. Finally, enhanced judicial cooperation will help to better identify the perpetrators. Platforms must be prepared to implement the obligation to withdraw clearly hateful content, under the supervision and through the supervision of the regulator. And, because regulation is only effective out of a sanctioning power, the Conseil Supérieur de l'audiovisuel – CSA – will be able to punish them heavily, with a fine of up to 4% of their worldwide turnover, if they fail to comply with these obligations and adopt behaviour in the matter of content withdrawal that is not in conformity with them, whether because of insufficiency or excess. We are also organising a new, simplified procedure to fight effectively against sites which have no other purpose than to convey abject hatred, and which I will refrain from advertising in the House. Blocking these sites, in fact, is creating a barrier of protection on our territory for all our citizens. In the Committee on Laws, and with the assistance of colleagues of various sensitivities, we have clarified the text, its scope, the obligations of means and the related powers of the APF, in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of State, which I wished to refer to for an opinion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and on several benches of the IUD-I group]] We have followed the desire expressed by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education to include online hate awareness in the modules offered to students and teachers. I would like to pay tribute here to the work of the draftswoman for her opinion, Fabienne Colboc. The fight against hate content is based on a triptych: the accountability of platforms; accountability of perpetrators of hate content, who are offenders; Finally, the responsibility of society as a whole. Platform accountability is mainly covered by the text. As far as the criminal response is concerned, we must do better. That is why I welcome the amendment tabled by the Government and creating a specialized prosecutor's office. The convictions of racist cyber offenders are only anecdotal: there are 269 for all of France in a year; It's ridiculous. There's no complaint, no investigation, no judgment. We need to turn this vicious circle into a virtuous circle, by encouraging victims to file complaints through a new online procedure that will be in force as early as 2020, and by using investigators and magistrates who have broken both digital usages and the very sensitive Press Freedom Act of 1881. In this respect, we have an obligation to achieve results. It is our duty to the victims. Finally, the empowerment of civil society will require a collective awareness of what is happening with impunity before our eyes today. We can no longer look away and let it happen: that would be to endorse such a statement. Action must be taken through education from an early age and prevention at all ages. Counter-speech must be developed to combat prejudice, the first step in the continuum of cyberviolence. We will work with the Minister of National Education, particularly on civic service missions. There is so much to do about it, and we are firmly committed to action. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In a forum published last Sunday, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has recalled with immense accuracy the challenges of the fight in which we commit ourselves: "To combat hate speech does not amount to limiting or prohibiting freedom of expression. Rather, it means preventing them from becoming even more dangerous. We must treat hate speech as we treat all acts of malice: by condemning them, refusing to feed them, opposing the truth and encouraging their perpetrators to change their behaviour. [...] Hate is a danger for all – and it is therefore the business of all to fight it. "Together, we can control this fire and preserve the values that unite us all in a single human family. » Ladies and gentlemen, know that we do not get used to hatred – I can testify – even when we receive it on a daily basis: hatred has no anesthetic power. And we must not get used to it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Meyer Habib also applauds]] That is why I take the opportunity to address all the victims of this hatred here, through the national representation: know that you are not alone, and that we will fight for you. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Isabelle Florennes also applauds]] You, the associations that work tirelessly every day against this hatred, know that you are no longer alone and that we will fight with you. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and on a few benches of the LR group. – Mrs and Mr. LaREM MPs, as well as Nadia Essayan, rise and applaud]] Finally, you, my dear trolls, haters, anonymous egg heads who believe you alone hidden behind your screens, you who are infinitely small and cowardly, know that we will fight to find you and put you in front of your responsibilities. For what we are committed to is the end of impunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u4	Mrs Fabienne Colboc, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u5	The racist, xenophobic, anti-Semitic, anti-LGBTI – lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex – and other hate messages proliferate in the digital space. According to a 2019 study conducted by the moderation company Netino, the proportion of aggressive or hateful comments on networks has increased by four points since 2018, reaching 14.3% of the total comments. This is evidence of a worrying progress, which the legislator must take the right step. Total freedom of expression, lack of rules and barriers, anonymity: these parameters allow the spread of discriminatory statements and insults into a virtual world that proves to be hostile to a large number of citizens and where the authors of hateful content evolve with almost total impunity. Hate-incitement groups have understood this well, and use online platforms to spread their ideas massively. However, these statements are no more permitted in digital space than in public space; It is therefore not acceptable for them to be tolerated for longer. Platform operators are at the heart of the development of the phenomenon. Their algorithms give hate content their virality and power, which victims suffer. It is therefore essential that operators become involved in the regulation of the spaces of dialogue they offer and in the accountability of malicious Internet users. This is why the proposed law includes several measures to strengthen the obligations of platform operators. These include the removal within 24 hours of manifestly illegal content, the creation of a single reporting button and the designation of a legal representative in France. Operators will also have to respond to the CSA, whose missions are completed to enable it to exercise an end-to-end control over the action of the platforms in the fight against online hatred. In addition, the CSA is already working with operators in the fight against information manipulation, since the law we passed in November 2018. I have wished to table on behalf of the Committee on Cultural Affairs a number of amendments detailing the new tasks entrusted to the CSA. This includes specifying that the Act will provide an annual review of law enforcement and that it will be able to draw on the expertise of associations specializing in the fight against hate speech and discrimination. It is also, of course, the Committee's competence in the field of education and youth that justifies its referral. Very active on the internet and on social networks, young people are a privileged target of hateful content. According to a joint study of the digital Renaissance think tank and the Digital Generation Association, 52% of young people are exposed to hate speech on the Internet. Digital citizenship of the young public remains to be built in order to prevent this cohesion tool from becoming a tool of persecution. So we wanted to introduce two measures into the education code. The first is to integrate the fight against the dissemination of hate messages online into the school curriculum. The second is to train teachers in this field. The aim is to prevent the occurrence of such behaviour among minors and to protect them from the hateful content to which they are involuntarily but increasingly exposed, due to the time they spend on the net and their vulnerability. We have strengthened the obligations of platforms that accept the registration of minors under the age of 15 – the age of the digital majority. They will have to raise awareness among children and pre-teens, as well as their parents or legal guardians, of the dangers associated with the dissemination of hate online and inform them of the legal risks they face, as is the case in any other field. This aspect of prevention is essential: parents often have a very limited awareness, if not too late, of the risks faced by their children in the digital environment and of their own legal responsibility for offences. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Through these three axes – prevention, accountability, punishment – the bill will give us the means to combat the phenomenon of hate on the Internet and to enable everyone to navigate it calmly. Thanks to Laetitia Avia's remarkable work, but also to Caroline Abadie's and the Government's commitment, the text strikes a fair balance between freedom of expression and protection. Bringing citizens together is what the bill allows.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u6	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u7	The Internet was born thirty years ago from a crazy dream: to connect human beings instantly, without barriers or borders, and to create a knowledge society. This dream has been realized in part: more than half of the inhabitants of our planet are now connected, and access to knowledge has never been easier; Every day, billions of people exchange, share, create and learn online. The Internet is also a lever of democracy. Arab revolutions were born on the Internet. It is the internet that has made Barack Obama emerge, a candidate in the U.S. presidential election so far little known, but who has been able to make this tool a lever to reverse prognosis. Finally, it was the Internet that crystallised the yellow vest movement, which, to be severe with the Government, was nevertheless, in its initial forms, a sign of political expression. We are recipients of this legacy, from her dream and nightmare. In the retreats of this freedom, threats have been created that threaten the very existence of the Internet and the values that led to its creation. The original freedom has, in a way, turned against itself. These threats can be obvious and direct: cyber attacks, child pornography, terrorism, trafficking of all kinds. Freedom thus carries within it the license and its lot of darkness. Some threats are essentialist: the questioning of basic principles such as net neutrality, the dangerous progress of the idea that the equal accessibility of content and infrastructure would ultimately not be so important as this, that there might not be one Internet but several, depending on the cultural and political choices of each other. Other threats, finally, are more pernicious: some actors have developed to the extent to which the end of the borders has been devalued. Those who were, good year, bad year, the guarantors of freedom in the real world, i.e. institutions and public power, have not been able to evolve at the same rate as technological upheavals. They are now being tested by actors of a size, power and technological complexity that they have never known before. At the Internet Governance Forum last November, President Emmanuel Macron called on multiple Internet players to become aware of their responsibility to the Internet. Tim Berners-Lee, one of the founders of the Internet, said little else when he called for stronger regulation and "strong standards to strike a balance between the interests of businesses and those of connected citizens". I am aware that the very idea of regulation is not evident in the world of the Internet, which developed from the ideal of freedom that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Many of his tutoring figures, whether John Perry Barlow, Aaron Swartz or Richard Stallman, carried libertarian principles in them that were ill-suited to the interference of states with protocols that they wanted resolutely horizontal. However, in this area as elsewhere, there is no need for freedom: unfortunately, those who defend it do not have the same weapons as those who play them. I am the first to regret it, but this is how it is: extremism from all walks of life, cynical economic forces and, sometimes, great state powers organize themselves, sometimes to take power on the web, sometimes to destabilize our societies, and their means are colossal. Thus, what once could be seen as a chaotic margin and as a tolerable rubbish now threatens the essentials. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The French understood it well. Because of the importance of the Internet in our lives, we need to hear the demand from our citizens for protection of the state. Nevertheless, our response must remain balanced, keeping the development of the Internet as a place of opportunity for the future. Protection may, of course, require the fight against those who abuse these opportunities, but it is in order to better open up spaces of freedom to the greatest number of people. This is a great challenge for our democracies. In other words, if the only states that can protect the Internet from these abuses are those that resort to authoritarian methods, our citizens will end up, in a weary war, turning to these solutions. The freedom of all will then be lost. We therefore have an obligation to achieve results in this area. Social networks do not escape the rule. I remember the time when, as a student, I attended their emergence. Myspace, Friendset, Facebook, then Twitter, Instagram and many others: these new communication vectors seemed to promise new horizons of sociability and exchange; In fact, they have made it possible to share many experiences and knowledge. But social networks have also, very quickly, shown the darkest faces of the human soul: it is now enough for a few moments on Twitter, Youtube or Facebook to find death threats, homophobic insults, racists, anti-Semitic – until the live broadcast of Christchurch's killing, a few weeks ago. This unbearable video, viewed 4000 times before being reported, has been republished 1.5 million times in the following hours. These abyssal figures give vertigo. They say everything about the particular responsibility on social networks, but also about the urgent need to curb as quickly as possible – and sometimes automatically, alas – the spread of the most dangerous content. But they also invite us to another observation: that of the individual responsibility of the people who pour out these waves of hatred, these odious attacks that hurt, sometimes to the irreversible, to the irreparable. And it is with this aspect, ladies and gentlemen, that I would like to begin. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] While platforms have a share of responsibility for the virtuality of the content they host and given the size of the agoras they represent, we must bear in mind that online hatred is primarily the responsibility of individuals. In this regard, we must be guided by a simple principle: the law must be applied online as in real life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u8	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u9	The corollary of this principle is the effectiveness of the law – in fact, its effectiveness. For fear to change sides, we must put an end to the quasi-impunity that prevails today, de facto, on the Internet. As philosopher Michel Foucault pointed out, "the certainty of being punished is this, and no longer the abominable theatre, which must divert from crime." We do not intend to strengthen our arsenal of sanctions, which is already well stocked and has recently been adapted to take into account hate and violent behaviour and speech, including online. I am thinking in particular of the provisions of the so-called Schiappa law relating to online harassment, or to criminal orders. The real challenge for our justice is now organizational and procedural, and it is common to all democracies: the judicial systems of our developed countries must adapt to the temporality and virality of the web. That is the purpose of the reforms that we have undertaken and that are reflected in this bill. The Keeper of the Seals, Nicole Belloubet, will present them to you earlier: the online complaint, the centralisation of the proceedings with a specialized prosecutor's office and the training of its judges on problems related to the specificities of social networks. They will make it possible to lay the foundations for effective justice. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] But, to be effective, justice must also be able to quickly identify the perpetrators of crime, hence the importance of the commitment that we got from Facebook a week ago, to transmit, at the request of justice, the identification data of the authors of hate online content. I stress once again this point of fact and law: only justice will be able to access this information. To affirm this requirement is to reiterate once again that only justice can ensure the balance between protection and freedom of expression. Beyond the responsibility of the authors, we must empower the major social networks. Facebook now brings together 2.4 billion users, 40 million of whom are French: such a size implies responsibilities. By the virality that they allow and organize, large social networks thus have a particular responsibility towards society and citizens. This is why the proposed law and its implementing measures tend to subject the major digital players to unprecedented supervision: social networks will have to provide themselves with the means, both technical and human, to effectively remove in 24 hours the manifestly illegal hate content that has been reported to them. We thus introduce a kind of obligation to succeed by leaving the platforms with the initiative to implement the modalities. This form of regulation of the major players is inspired by the approach in other sectors where so-called systemic actors, including the banking sector, are operating. The parallel is clear: a bank cannot be held responsible for all fraudulent transfers made through it; On the other hand, it has an ardent obligation to create highly effective internal detection and control systems, otherwise the regulator's sanction may be very severe. Similarly, the main social networks will have to introduce moderation mechanisms to match the stakes. Otherwise, the regulator may challenge them to do so. If they fail to do so, the penalty can reach 4% of their global turnover – a particularly dissuasive amount. In this way, we want to reconcile innovation by economic actors and close vigilance by public authorities. This approach is, of course, valid only if the regulator responsible for ensuring the proper conduct of private actors has the means of its task; It's an essential element. The CSA – which is the subject of the bill, but on which, as you know, some reflections are under way that will come to fruition in the public audiovisual reform bill that Franck Riester will shortly be presenting – will have to increase its skills, both human and technical. Let us pause for a moment on the responsibility of the major social networks, bound to the obligation that I have just defined. The issue of freedom of expression, which focuses on the legitimate fears of many actors, including representatives of civil society, who wrote to us yesterday on this subject. I want to take the time to answer them. The balance between the protection of the French and the respect for fundamental freedoms is never easy to hold, especially at a time when, I am aware, public opinion instinctively gives its favors to protection. It is then up to the liberals, in the democratic sense of the term, to assume their responsibilities in the face of history, including, when necessary, by limiting state intervention to the strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u10	On this, we trust you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u11	In this case, together with the rapporteur, the keeper of the seals and the Minister of Culture, we have reached a peak line. It respects this fundamental value: it is up to the justice system, always independent, to determine whether content is legal or illegal – and it alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u12	We have to give him the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u13	This role does not belong to the executive or the social networks themselves: in both cases, it would be a problem for democracy. Only the courts can then identify and punish the perpetrators. Finally, justice is the last resort in cases of unfair withdrawal, even though the proposed law imposes on platforms the obligation to establish domestic redress and information mechanisms for authors of withdrawn comments. In order to function, justice must work calmly and take the time to conduct adversarial proceedings. This requirement is not compatible with the reality and temporality of social networks: when dangerous content is published, it is not possible – it would not even be reasonable – to wait a few weeks, a fortiori a few months, for justice to be done. That is why we are going to set up a contact group bringing together magistrates and representatives of social networks and civil society and placed in the orbit of the future regulator. It will provide platforms, both on the water and after debate, with indications that will not have the force of law, on which justice will always be able to return, but which, by guiding platforms, will prevent them from enjoying the quality of content alone. Online hate takes on constantly new forms. It constantly evolves, as each technical evolution makes its lot of modes of expression emerge. We must be able to monitor these developments and understand their mechanisms and trends in order to adapt our means of response. That is why we also need to think about the creation of an online hate observatory, a project to which I know the rapporteur very much attached. It remains to be defined its perimeter; we will discuss it later; It will in any case be another useful instrument. Finally, I know the apparent tension between section 1 of this bill and the requirement of means. Let us understand: in reality, Article 1 reinforces the obligation of means; The fine of 4% of turnover is the sole penalty for its non-compliance. In this respect, we stand out from the spirit of German law, the application of which may have been a source of concern. Once again, the freedom of all must not be sacrificed because of the abuses of some. I say this clearly: we are moving forward with unwavering determination, accompanied by true humility. The device that we propose to you today will have to prove its worth; We believe, however, that we are following the path of an effective solution that respects fundamental freedoms. I would remind you that we have a duty to achieve results and speed. The last element of the triptych proposed by the text is not the least, although it is probably the least legislative. We see it with fake news, cyber-harassment and online hate: digital radically alters our relationship to information and exchange. The mass of accessible content profoundly disrupts our relationship to information and its processing, as demonstrated by the recent work of sociologist Gérald Bronner. These new cognitive behaviours are of interest to our society as a whole. We need to raise awareness and educate young and old people about the use of social life forums, in particular to design, together, how freedom of expression on social networks can be linked to respect for the other. It is a work that the Government intends to carry out, through the Minister of National Education and Youth, Jean-Michel Blanquer, and his Secretary of State, Gabriel Attal, at school, through the training of pupils, but also teachers, or within the framework of the universal national service. Basically, our interactions with others, on social networks as elsewhere, are both what builds us individually and what defines our collective freedom. Raising awareness among all actors is also one of the objectives of the bill: it is a question of putting on the political and media agenda this insidious poison of our societies, too often neglected, which is online hatred. How many shoulder increases in relatives or relatives? How many victims have trouble filing complaints in police stations? How many lives are broken by silence and the feeling of being alone in the face of hatred? We must make this fight a social struggle. I will not be too long at the edge of a debate that promises to be intense and will, I hope, enrich and consolidate the text before you. Before concluding, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Laetitia Avia, for the fight that has begun and that she has been preparing for many months. She contributed, with deep conviction, to putting him on the front of the stage. I also thank Secretary of State Mounir Mahjoubi, who has begun the work that I am continuing today. Finally, I will mention the humility that must be ours with regard to a question to which no developed country has yet been able to answer. Today, thanks to work carried out in part with the platforms, we are laying the foundation for a mechanism that we believe is effective and that can be echoed at European level tomorrow. It will certainly be necessary to come back to the task in order to clarify, improve and correct it. Regulating, ladies and gentlemen, is not censorship. On 26 August 1789, the representatives of the French people, constituted in the National Assembly, resolved to set forth, in a solemn declaration, the natural, inalienable and sacred rights of man. These rights are, still today, the foundations of our democracy and our social pact, because they have constitutional value. Article 11 of this declaration – the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen – states: "Free communication of thoughts and opinions is one of the most precious rights of man: every Citizen can therefore speak, write, print freely, except to answer for the abuse of this freedom in cases determined by law. » The bill before you is firmly rooted in this essential soil. We are neither libertarian nor liberticide. Our approach is resolutely liberal, driven by the great ambition of putting digital tools at the service of knowledge, citizen debate and progress. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] But freedom to think is not the freedom to hate, nor the freedom to insult or threaten; Racism is not an opinion, nor anti-Semitism or homophobia: it is crimes. The rules of law that underpin our life in society must also be applied on the web, where violence is nothing virtual. The web must remain an area of freedom, but it cannot become an area of lawlessness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u14	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a maximum of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u15	[[Exclaims and applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Smiles and exclamations on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We're not going to take 30 minutes. Don't worry! And that is worth, in addition, the applause of the majority! It's so rare...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u16	You have to savor it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u17	The democratic debate will take place!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u18	Hate and ruffinophobic words must be fought!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u19	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ruffin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u20	"I'd like to say something that's going to sound silly to you: I haven't gotten used to Facebook's violence, these insulting comments, this hatred that's spreading. I didn't get used to it when I was targeted. But I haven't gotten used to it, either, when others are [...]. » These lines, I wrote them in a Facebook post two and a half years ago, on December 16, 2016. I was defending Léa Salamé, who had received me on her show on France Inter and who was at the time treated by my Facebook subscribers as "no," "beast" and lots of things that were much more mean than I have no desire to quote here. I concluded, assuming the old school side that I was not always recognized in this Chamber: "It seems to me that we should ask ourselves "And if I had the person in front, would I spit out the same venom?" " Esope asked: What's the worst thing? The tongue. What's the best thing? The tongue. It was in ancient times, but we could question ourselves in the same way in the digital age: what is the worst thing? It's the internet. I quoted Facebook, but they're Bisounours next to Twitter and his wild Gorgons. I stand aside for mental health reasons. Controversy and conflict are part of democracy but, it is true, it is often a torrent of mud that flows today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u22	But the internet is also the best. The best, because democracy is sick: sick of its parties, sick of this assembly where, I would remind you, the workers and employees make up only 3% of the deputies, while they make up 50% of the working population; sick of his media, locked by ten magnates and where these same popular classes – 50 per cent of the working population, I repeat – occupy 5 per cent of the information. Where are the people who do not feel represented and who are not? Those who are suffering today from a lack of representation? Where do they go with their desire for expression? On the net: that is where democracy takes refuge. In our recent history, on 29 May 2005, the editorialists of almost all major media were in favour of the referendum on the European Constitution. The big parties were for the yes. The bosses, especially the press bosses, were for the yes: a monolithic block. Where did the contradiction come out, where did the debate take place? On the Internet. On CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada – on which we are going to vote next week, without much suspense, I fear, where the debate took place? On the Internet. There are also, of course, yellow vests, a movement that, as the Secretary of State said, was born and organized on Facebook. Then no, the angry people, who feel dispossessed – and who is dispossessed – this angry people are not polite. What remedy do you bring to this violence, to these insults, to this hatred that I deplore? You entrust censorship to Google, Facebook, Twitter – a private censorship, above all. Worse, technological censorship. The motion of rejection that we are tabling is an alert, Secretary of State. One word in particular bothers me in this piece of legislation. It is the word "technology": "[platforms] implement human or technological means [...]". This technological censorship – algorithmic, in truth – bothers me. Censorship has a long history in our country. The Catholic Church took care of it first. King Francis I drove the printers out. Then came the Enlightenment: Voltaire jammed for his satirical writings, Diderot to the prison of Vincennes for his Letter on the Blind; He refused, in his lifetime, to publish La Religieuse for fear of returning. The Committee of Public Salvation burns the works of Camille Desmoulins. Flaubert – the scene of Madame Bovary's massacred carriage –, Baudelaire and her Flowers of Evil... Facing this censorship is almost a guarantee of entry into literary history! [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It was then Le Canard enchainé during the First World War: his columns left white, Anastasie who stood in the ministry of war. Displaced plaiting? We're cutting. Disparaging irony? We're cutting. A wounded ally general? We're cutting. Censorship moved from paper to image after the war. Some 3000 films were censored, including – irony of history – the adaptation of Diderot's La Religieuse by Jacques Rivette. It is a human story, with twists and mistakes: the pre-censorship committee renders an opinion unfavorable to the scenario; the film is still shot; it is prohibited for persons under 18 years of age; the Secretary of State for Information makes an appeal and the film is completely censored, before the administrative court lifts the censorship. What's common to all these stories, sometimes comedians, is the human. They sometimes led to legends, such as that of the fight against Anastasie, "this bitch at the low front that follows all the powers" according to Victor Hugo. It is for this reason that the word "technology" bothers me, Mr. Secretary of State: through him, you open the way to automatic, algorithmic, robotic censorship, without human behind to weigh, to decide; Without human beings to have scruples to gag another human; I don't think we're responsible for trying to convince. With this text, you risk killing the dialectic that existed so far. I have one more concern: the possibility of a pre-censorship. I fear that Facebook and company, in order to avoid trouble, will decide to eliminate, marginalize, refrain from referring to controversial or political content or relegating it from the outset. I fear that this will lead to the depoliticization of social networks, which will then be limited to kittens and merchandise... Maybe we'd be quieter. Perhaps the President of the Republic would be less insulted – I too, Léa Salamé too. However, it would be a superficial and artificial tranquillity, like a lid placed on the French pot. I'll end with a reference to my friend Cavanna. The funniest pages of Beast and villain are surely those where he navigates in the basements of the prefecture and the interior ministry by trying to unravel the pelotus to make Hara-Kiri appear again. Probably, General de Gaulle's wife, "Tante Yvonne", had surprised her grandchildren in the middle of reading Hara-Kiri and had asked for a ban on publication. There is this sentence: "Forbid, Marcellin, what, forbid! – he was the minister of the interior at the time. "Oh, oh! Are you sleeping, Marcellin? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Your valiant little boy Scouts newspaper burners in the public square can't get all the work done. Give them a hand, Marcellin. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups and on some benches of the LT group]] He was ironing him against Marcellin; I wouldn't want to imagine it today beating against 0s and 1s!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u23	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u24	Mr President, I shall be brief: we have many amendments to consider and I hope that we will get to the heart of the matter. You have referred to violence on the Internet, which is also a tool of democracy: we agree on this point. You've blamed us two times. The first is that we would entrust censorship to the platforms: no! We simply remind them that we are the ones who set the rules and that they have obligations. Justice determines whether content is legal or illegal. A contact group is set up to provide the platforms with guidance on what is legal or illegal and to ensure that they apply the rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u25	Who'll check it out?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u26	There are 15,000 or 20,000 moderators at Facebook: what is certain is that we will not hire 15,000 or 20,000 people to do the job for them. On the other hand, we will verify on-site and on-site that the platforms do. In fact, the rapporteur has made a great deal of emphasis on the fact that withdrawals should not be excessive. The second complaint concerns the technological dimension. It's a real subject. However, only the use of technology removed the video from the Christchurch attack, which was posted 1.5 million times in 24 hours. We are fully aware of the risk of over-censorship that you have mentioned. That is why we must ensure a balanced approach. But some of the content will be removed by technological means. We have no choice: you know it yourself, you can be the target in one hour of a storm of 1000 insulting comments on the internet; removing them other than using technology is humanly impossible. While efforts should be made to keep the human factor in the process as far as possible, the technological approach is therefore indispensable. However, the regulator will have to check – this aspect is at the heart of our approach – that the means used, including the algorithm, ensure a balance; So he must have the technical capacity, I am fully aware of it. If, for once, we do not object to the objectives, we must not forget that we have an obligation to achieve results. The first to suffer from online hatred are often the weakest. Last week I was the guest of the Rico Show, which aired on NRJ from 20:00 to 23:00 and gave the floor to listeners. A young homosexual, Ethan, who lives in the North, testified to the cyberharassment that he is the subject of from knowledge. Children in affluent categories are not spared this problem, but their parents are well informed. I repeat: the first to suffer from online hatred are often the weakest. We must of course find the line between freedom of expression and protection – we can come back to this issue during the debate: I think we are holding it. I repeat, however, that we have an obligation to achieve results. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you will understand, I am against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u27	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u28	My colleague, you have defended a motion of rejection: this means that you want to maintain the status quo. What is he? Since the LCEN – the law for trust in the digital economy – adopted in 2004, platforms are already obliged to remove illegal content, an obligation that they arbitrarily apply – from week to week, the same content will be withdrawn or not – without any transparency and accountability to anyone. On Facebook, which you have mentioned several times, more than 60% of content is removed proactively, i.e. technologically, without us having the slightest control or information about the content removed. You propose the status quo, that is to say, you reject all the obligations of transparency, reporting, information and protection of users that the bill introduces. You do not propose to improve the situation of users: you propose to leave things as it is. If I understand correctly, the difficulty of the text lies in the word "or", in the phrase "human or technological means". Well, Mr. Ruffin, if you had come to committee, you would have seen how open the debates were and the discussions were plentiful; you would have noticed that amendments from almost every bench were adopted; You could have tabled an amendment to replace another word with the word "or". You could also have done so in the open debate. If a single word prevents you from joining the bill, file an amendment to amend it, but do not reject a text that will significantly change the deal. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u29	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Eric Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u30	The Republican Group will vote against the motion for rejection because the text under discussion is timely, if not necessary. Mr Ruffin, your arguments have not convinced me. I believe that we have come at a time when we must put an end to the drifts that we all see and that are gradually gangrenecing democracy. A few decades ago, when the Internet appeared in the world, the hope that the freedom it offered would propagate freedom itself, would bring down dictatorships by abolishing the borders they set up: they could not prevent them from enjoying the values of tolerance and democracy that new freedom would spread everywhere. Everyone can now see that the opposite has happened. The dictatorships have protected themselves and preserved their strength: thanks to a freedom that has become naive, they have even managed to contaminate democracies, so that it has become necessary to put an end to this naivety. We have to protect ourselves, regulate ourselves, banish the words of hatred and violence, this waste. Madam rapporteur, you are presenting this text. I had defended another one of a similar nature. The majority being the majority, it is you who have the honour to defend yours. Whatever. What matters is the bottom; What matters is that we get results. That is why I will vote for the text, which can be further improved – it needs to be debated – particularly on the question of anonymity: I will defend an amendment to prevent the use of the protection it offers to spread violence and hatred on networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u31	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u32	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement believes that the content of the statements exchanged on social networks and their harmful effect on those who are victims or witnesses of them call for an urgent response. The Internet must no longer be a non-right space for the victims of hateful content, because it is the social link that is then undermined or even trampled; It is the foundations of society that are under attack. You, my colleague, are referring to the protection of freedom of expression: Members who have attended the work of the Law Committee will be able to testify that we have ensured, throughout the discussions, that it is never obstructed. This question has come back to every stage of the exchange: we have been collective guarantors of freedom of expression. Our group, but also yours, like all those who were represented, alerted about the risk of systematic censorship on the platforms. We can also welcome this common approach, which proves, if necessary, that the members of the national representation know how to work together to protect freedoms. The rapporteur has given sufficient guarantees in this regard. It is now a matter of empowering the actors because, let us not be mistaken, those who wish to continue to "troller" with impunity will use freedom of expression as a pretext. They will not hesitate to dissipate the foundations of it to take advantage of it and to escape their responsibilities. [[Applause on many benches of MODEM and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has chosen the society of respect, the choice of the human. That is why he will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u33	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u34	Article 11 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights states that "free communication of thoughts and opinions is one of the most valuable human rights". These important words should guide us in our consideration of the text. Our colleague François Ruffin was right to warn us of the risk of over-censorship that could result from the mechanism that we are about to adopt: it is healthy that this alert has been launched in the Chamber in the preamble to our debates. Moreover, since the beginning of our work, we have been under the sign of freedom of expression, a cherished freedom of expression. The Internet has driven a tremendous democratic movement of expressions, currents, thoughts and opinions: we do not want to touch it. However, the reality is there: often, as you have pointed out, Secretary of State, it is the most vulnerable of Internet users who are harmed by words on which they do not take any action. The number of magistrates responsible for regulating freedom of expression is lower than before, while the Internet has billions of users. The state is obliged, if not to achieve results – which I hope, however – at least to act in the light of the situation: it cannot fail to hear the cry of distress that is being made around us on this subject. We must also not forget the colossal means of platforms. Legislation has already been adopted in previous years; they have not always been effective. It is a matter of adopting a minimum bill, enabling society to react to the publication on the Internet of a manifestly offensive statement that affects an Internet user. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The Socialist and Related Group will therefore not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u35	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u36	The IDU and independent group asked itself the same delicate question as Mrs Untermaier and that, I suppose, all the groups in this House: what limits should freedom of expression be given? I will have the opportunity to return to this substantive issue, which is legitimate, in the rostrum during the general discussion. It is also important to know whether the technological means used are sufficient. Madam rapporteur, we have tabled an amendment to replace the word "and" with the word "or". I don't know if he'll be adopted. The idea is that online operators provide all guarantees that, when necessary, content will be removed under the best possible conditions. Our colleague has referred, more fundamentally, to the risk of excessive censorship, of which I share the fear. This risk must, however, in our view, be wiped out in the face of the reality of the enormous damage caused every day by the spread of hateful, racist and violent content, which, by thousands or even millions, gradually destroy the living together that we seek to build, and attack the foundations of society. Because urgency makes this law necessary, because, I repeat, the risk mentioned above must give way to this urgency, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u37	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u38	The Libertés et Territoires Group is aware of the need for states, platforms and companies active in the field of social media to act so that the Internet does not become a safe haven for illegal and violent hate speech. We are collectively responsible for promoting and supporting freedom of expression online, with respect for human dignity, fundamental rights, the rule of law – the values on which our democracy is based. The means and methods to combat illegal content must therefore be strengthened, while respecting freedom of expression; In particular, there is a need to empower justice. At the same time, we are convinced that, beyond the fight against hatred and violence on the Internet, it is essential to influence a business model that contributes to the dissemination and maintenance of illegal content on the Internet. This means that we must tackle the roots of evil. To address the growing problem of illegal online discourse without disproportionate interference with freedom of expression, the Freedom and Territory Group would like the debate to take place in our House. Today, words are no longer enough to stop these intolerable content, especially on social networks. On our part, the French look forward to continuing acts of concern to consolidate the social bond and to preserve freedom of expression. They are waiting for us to solve the problems in depth. The Libertés et territoires group wants the National Assembly to take its responsibilities, far from any communication approach, and to debate the legislative measures best able to combat hate content on the Internet – which is not the present bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LT Group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Because it wants this debate, the Libertés et territoires Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u39	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u40	I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. As our colleague François Ruffin said, the motion to reject it was used to launch an alert. You've all agreed, whatever passion you've set to retaliate to him, that there was a real problem there. Mr Secretary of State, to some extent I appreciated your comments. You said there was a balance to be found. You consider the text to be successful; We think the opposite: platforms claiming that algorithms are an industrial secret that they don't have to deliver, you won't really know the content. This responsibility will therefore be entrusted to large private groups, which have already intervened in the political life of certain countries, in particular through intolerable censorship, and will be able to do so again tomorrow. That is the whole problem, and that is what will motivate our amendments. Mrs Avia, with all due respect, and even my affection for you at times, we were in committee, where you rejected all our amendments, without exception: please do not blame Mr Ruffin for his absence, it is a bit easy criticism! François Ruffin spoke on behalf of a group. He fights on several grounds that deserve to be respected even if one disagrees with him. Combating hateful content also means respecting a Member of Parliament who denounces a real problem. Maybe we don't have all the answers. Of course, we are at your side when you are the victims of attacks, because it is unacceptable, but the debate is about the area of blur: what is hate speech, when the tone rises politically in the country, as it has been the case lately? Who decides what's aggressive or not? In the name of what criteria? In other countries, especially on the other side of the Pyrenees, Facebooks' is allowed to censor a large political formation. These are subjects of substance. Conferring this responsibility to private groups is extremely dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u41	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u42	The Internet has been and remains a great tool for exchange, knowledge, across borders and language differences. As a result, individuals, groups and even states have seized it to disturb consciences and call for hatred, racism, anti-Semitism, homophobia and sexism. We must fight them in real life – it is the role of justice, police, diplomacy – but also on platforms, in a technical way. However, you yourself said, Mr. Secretary of State, that the freedom of all should not be called into question by the abuses of some, and that we were on a ridge. That is what we need to discuss, with great openness, in the coming hours. How can we ensure that we do not give excessive over-censorship power to the platforms, who will take it very quickly, given their origins? How can we ensure that the role of police and justice is preserved? Only 27 officers work for PHAROS, the Ministry of the Interior's platform for harmonising, overlapping and guiding alerts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u43	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u44	Will this platform and the judiciary be given the means to play their part?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u45	That's a real question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u46	You have pointed out a real problem, Secretary of State: twenty-four hours is not the time of justice. How can this 24-hour delay not prevent it from playing its part? Finally, we can better guarantee freedom of expression and creation. We want to work there in the next few hours. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore not vote on the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u47	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u48	[[Exclaims on FI banks. – Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The answer to the rejection motion is finally quite simple: what is excessive is insignificant. Mr Ruffin, you are telling us, in essence, that nothing in this text should be kept because of one word. So you tell us, "It's all we have to do."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u49	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u50	You didn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u51	It's caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u52	To provide answers to substantive questions such as the fight against all forms of hatred, to which the social body is confronted permanently, let us avoid pouring into simplism or demagogy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u53	It's not good to say things like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u54	You're mixing everything. Freedom of expression is obviously a cardinal value of our democracy, no one denies it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u55	It's not up to the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u56	However, it does not allow everything and is not absolute. With this text, we want to counter what has become a real Far West. We cannot allow everyone to stigmatize and attack their neighbour, with impunity, because of their race, sexual orientation, skin colour, gender or disability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u57	We all agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u58	Stop pushing open doors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u59	That's why we're acting. We want to stop this unbearable impunity, which gangrene the virtual world – not so virtual, by the way, when we know the damage that sharp words can cause on individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u60	But we all agree on that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u61	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche Group fully supports the rapporteur and the bill, and strongly opposes the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u62	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u63	On March 14, 2018, the elected Afro-Brazilian municipal woman Marielle Franco was murdered with her driver, Anderson Pedro Gomes, in Rio de Janeiro. Between March 14 and 19, 2018, the @marielfranco account was mentioned 2.4 million times on Twitter by 400,000 users, in 54 countries and in 34 languages. The national and international mobilization that kept the pressure on the Brazilian authorities to arrest their murderers has largely been built on social networks. Even stronger pressure is now needed for the perpetrators of these murders, many of whom suspect being close to the new power in place, to be apprehended and tried, at a time when the collusions of justice with the same power have just been revealed by the online media The Intercept in the case of the imprisonment of former President Lula. # MariellePresente, #LulaBook! Last April, the video of the Sudanese kandaka Alaa Salah, draped with white and chanting the word "freedom", became viral and forced the world to – for at least a while – see Sudan with the word # SudanUprising. Today, it is the social networks that keep track of the army's violence, which is trying to stifle the popular revolution through repression. In November, the movement of yellow vests was launched on the internet, and it was the internet that went, as calls for mobilization – # ActeI, # ActeII, # ActeIII, until the act XXXIII of last Saturday – or the denunciation of police violence – "Hello, place Beauvau? – to give substance to the greatest popular revolt in the recent history of our country. A few days ago, the word hash # FreeCarola mobilized thousands of people across Europe, and beyond, against the criminalization of the solidarity that the Italian government, but also too many other European governments, including yours, oppose people who risk their lives in the Mediterranean and those who – sometimes successfully – try to save them, sometimes arriving there. Carola Rackete saved forty lives. She was arrested by Salvini police. The fund-raising actions in support of the captain of the Sea Watch III, launched on the Internet, reached EUR 1 million in two days. This pressure contributed to his liberation, I am convinced. In the United States, the word "diasis" # CloseTheCamps is used to follow the campaign of elected democrats such as Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib or Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez against detention centres, who are described by the latter as real concentration camps. Currently, the word-diasis # OuEstSteve is used to maintain the pressure for light to be made on what happened to this missing young man after a police intervention in Nantes, during the Feast of Music;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u64	What does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u65	...as, a few years ago, during the revolutions that broke into squares around the world, from the square Taksim and from # OccupyGezi to Wall Street, passing through Tahrir Square; as during the mobilizations against police violence launched in the United States after the murder in 2012 of young Trayvon Martin, thanks to the hashtag # BlackLivesMatter, tweeted more than 30 million times since its creation; as in France, where the word "diasis" # JusticeFor Adama relays the fight for justice led by the family and the supporters of young Adama Traoré, who died in 2016 following a police arrest;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u66	But what does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u67	...as in the campaigns to denounce the culture of rape and sexual and gender-based violence: the # MeToo launched in the United States, # Dafadoy – "it's enough," "never again" – in Senegal and, in France, the #BalanceTonPorc or the Tumblr "Pay Ta Shnek", where for nearly seven years testimonies of harassment in the public space were published to show the violent banality of speech and sexist acts in public – thanks to Anaïs and #TeamBagarre for all the work thus accomplished. These movements did not appear spontaneously, through the grace of social media, but because people seized the tools that Internet offered to organize and mobilize in a way that was not possible by traditional methods. "We use Facebook to organize protests, Twitter to coordinate them and YouTube to tell the world," said activist Fawaz Rashed in March 2011 about the Egyptian revolution. Why are you talking about all this? What does this have to do with the bill before us today?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u68	Yeah, what's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u69	It is not a priori a question of spreading hate speech in these examples. From my point of view, it is even the opposite: the expression of indignation, anger, revolt, solidarity; the release of an oppressed and repressed word; the aspiration to emancipation. However, as a result of the bill, all this could now be censored. Not only does the text endanger fundamental freedoms, but it misses what it aims to deal with: criminal discriminatory behaviour, which is now commonplace on the Internet, as well as outside the web. The Internet is an out-of-standard space-time. According to the International Telecommunication Union, the number of Internet users, i.e. people over 2 years of age who have connected over the last 30 days, was about 3.9 billion at the end of 2016 – or 47% of the world's population – and 4.2 billion – 55% – in June 2018. Of these Internet users, 50.1 per cent are in Asia, 16.4 per cent in Europe, 11.2 per cent in Africa, 10.1 per cent in Latin America and the Caribbean, 7.5 per cent in North America, 4 per cent in the Middle East and 0.7 per cent in Australia and Oceania. It is an unprecedented experience in the history of humanity, a kind of digital Babel tower, but very real, material, where are found the best as the worst in society. Today, this leading space allows people who do not have access to traditional media to organize themselves massively and independently, to alert, to show what would have remained hidden, to meet, to exchange, to create alternative ways of doing society. Similarly, the Internet is challenging media maps, allowing independent media to multiply their audiences. From this point of view, it is a tool for political change and democratic re-appropriation. What characterizes the Internet more than any other space is its relational dimension. Researcher Boris Beaude says it perfectly: "The Internet is not so much a place of synchronization, but above all a place of synchorization, that is, a space that makes possible a joint action: interaction. Because that's what defines it, it's the best space for networking. It makes it possible to act together by fundamentally changing the previous limits of space and time. There are potentially only centers, and there are only peripheries. The internet capital was in turn Tahrir Square, a favela of São Paulo, Ferguson, in the United States, the Mediterranean, roundabouts to the four corners of France, Beaumont-sur-Oise, Khartoum, Hong Kong... The limits of the Internet are also unknown. We know only the conditions, which are the ecosystem and the people connected. The Internet has, in fact, a physical existence, especially through the networks, computers and mobile phones from which we have access. But there are endless possibilities of websites, pseudonyms, networks, simultaneous relationships. For all these reasons, the Internet is also, for those who are repressed, marginalized and marginalized who have access to it, a space of liberation where they can exchange with other people in similar situations, self-organize themselves to assert their rights, produce and finance informative and creative content, while they are so often excluded from traditional information and creative spaces. The protection of freedom of expression on the Internet is therefore not an insignificant issue for people who are victims of discrimination, which the text aims to protect, or for freedom of expression, against which democracy is measured. Protecting freedom of expression on the Internet is like protecting a space that, to be particular, is no less in continuity with the space that is traditionally conceived. What starts on the internet develops on the street and allows concrete actions. Money collected on the Internet serves the material defense of unjustly imprisoned people. The actions on roundabouts and sit-ins are increasing when they are broadcast on networks. The best, therefore, but also the worst: the internet is also a space-time structured by powers, hierarchies, ideologies, relations of power and domination, resistances, like the rest of society. Any initiative aimed at controlling expression on the Internet can only be welcomed with vigilance, especially since the Government and the majority have distinguished themselves, over the past two years, by a propensity supported, on the one hand, by the privatization of all-va, the destruction of common goods to the benefit of the powerful and to the detriment of the general interest, and, on the other hand, by forms of authoritarianism and the questioning of democratic rights and civil liberties. Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and article 11 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789 protect freedom of opinion, as well as the resulting freedom of expression. The European Court of Human Rights also demands the predictability and proportionality of blockages, as well as the enhanced protection of political or militant speech. However, the text you are proposing to adopt does not provide the necessary guarantees for this. The scope of the targeted platforms is far too broad. La Quadrature du net points out that the 24-hour content withdrawal requirements impose a disproportionate obligation on non-commercial platforms but receive numerous visits. This is the case, for example, of Wikipedia, which does not have the means of Facebook. This lack of the original text was compounded by the amendments made in committee, following the adoption of amendments by the rapporteur which further broaden the scope of the sites concerned to include content listing sites proposed or posted by third parties. The replacement of the number of connections threshold by a simple activity threshold also extended the scope of the relevant platforms. Other amendments have also added grounds for blocking by the platforms. It is therefore up to private operators to determine, under penalty of pecuniary sanctions, what constitutes war crimes, crimes against humanity, crimes of enslavement or exploitation of a person reduced to slavery, crimes and offences of collaboration with the enemy, crimes of intentional assault on life or physical integrity, sexual assault, aggravated robbery, extortion or destruction, deliberate degradation or deterioration dangerous to persons, or procuring. The German experience of NetzDG – Netzwerkdurchsetzungsgesetz – shows that the risk of sanctions pushes platforms to block content beyond what is prohibited by law to avoid fines. You therefore encourage a large withdrawal of content on the Internet. By multiplying the motives, you also multiply the possibilities of censorship by a private platform. Finally, you delegate to private platforms whose economic power is comparable to the GDP of a state the control of public speech, a role normally attributed to the judiciary. However, the judicial authority and private companies do not defend similar interests: the first is the application of the general law; the others, the maximization of their profits. It is therefore platforms that will have to decide tomorrow, in less than 24 hours, what is clearly illegal on matters that are already difficult to decide for courts. It is a considerable power that you are privatizing, even as Mark Zuckerberg announced in Berlin last Monday his willingness to create a supreme court of platforms that would judge in second instance the most contentious cases of blocking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u70	That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u71	You intend to delegate to the digital giants – the GAFAs, which, because of their economic power and their grip on our information and personal data, are increasingly like states – the role of jurisdiction in the matter of freedom of expression on the Internet: pure liberal logic, again, under the guise of fighting against discriminatory statements. Perhaps you do not know that people who moderate content on Facebook, for example, are already experiencing situations of serious abuse at work. They are subjected throughout the day to violent videos, discriminant talk, and all suffer in the medium term from post-traumatic syndromes. They are employed as subcontractors and significantly underpaid, particularly in comparison to the salaries paid to GAFA employees. Your text does not take into account this reality. Your bill will therefore apply on the backs of precarious people, without addressing the issue of discrimination on the Internet. The text encourages you to overflock the content, without providing any substantial guarantee: the risk of a censorship dynamic is therefore high. In particular, the bill outsources to the GAFA the power to judge at first instance the limits of freedom of expression on very broad subjects. However, it would have been possible to protect the victims while guaranteeing freedom of expression, but it would have required limiting the power of the GAFA, not extending it as you do. In this way, we proposed to encourage the creation of selected spaces on the Internet, which allow both people to be protected and freedom of expression on-line. This is technically possible if interoperability is put in place that allows people to choose social networks according to the mode of moderation that suits them, without losing their contacts. This would improve the moderation of content, since networks would be smaller, and would help to target cases where intervention is really needed. The amendment we tabled to that effect was considered inadmissible on the grounds that it would have no direct or indirect connection with the text. You have implicitly acknowledged that your bill is not intended to protect victims of attacks from the violence they experience on the Internet. In fact, the text may be a new diversion. The Secretary of State acknowledged that during his hearing in committee, we are suffering from a lack of training of the police forces, which undermines the effectiveness of the criminal response when it is necessary. There is a problem of reactivity of the judicial response when hate speech poses a physical risk to the target people because it exposes sensitive data or trivializes the attack to which they might be subjected: this response often comes late. For the past two years, I have been the regular target of particularly virulent sexist and racist attacks on the Internet. I will spare myself the displeasure of ginning you, as I was able to do a year ago in a television report – without it making a big world react in this assembly – a non-exhaustive list of messages of the type that I receive almost daily. I know that other Members, in particular the rapporteur, who have a different colour of skin or a real or supposed membership of a particular group, are also regularly victims of this type of content. To this violence and indignity, which also affects those responsible for moderation – I would like to thank Christophe, my unwavering digital shield – in particular – I have decided to respond and, like you, the rapporteur, not to let anything go on social networks. So I filed a complaint against racist statements from a particularly infective website. The article was posted on June 11, 2018, the report to my lawyer made on the same day, the observation by a bailiff made three days later and the complaint filed on September 4. Since 6 November, the investigation has been under way. So it's been nine months. For this type of case, the cost of lawyers amounts to between 1500 and 5000 euros, a particularly high cost for most victims. In addition, the time for the procedure is very long. Justice often finds it difficult to find the persons concerned. This has nothing to do with the so-called anonymity on the Internet – a fantasy – because, in most cases, the IP address is sufficient for identification. The problem lies in the lack of human and digital resources available to the police and the judiciary. The procedural changes brought about by the inclusion in the Criminal Code of the offences characterized in this bill are unlikely to improve the situation. On the contrary, many lawyers believe that the procedure provided for by the 1881 Act guarantees the rights of defence and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u72	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u73	Finally, the psychological suffering of harassed persons, for example victims of organized raids, is not taken into account at all. However, once again, the bill should focus on the protection of victims first and foremost. Our amendment on interoperability, which I have already mentioned and which joins those of several Members from other groups, was intended precisely to allow the creation of protected areas on the Internet. By multiplying the cases where justice will have to rule, you are further weakening justice and the police. However, the question of discrimination on the Internet is not limited to their violent expressions. As in offline society, these discriminations also have a systemic dimension: they serve interests, they are a matter of domination and power. The bill works hard to hide hatred, but little to combat it. But it is not because hate content is masked that discrimination disappears. One of the current challenges in this area is, in fact, the control of algorithms, especially the discriminant biases they produce or reproduce. This is a goal of coaching, of accountability of platforms. But it is to platforms that sometimes discriminate that you ask to fight discriminatory attacks. These biases have concrete consequences for everyday life. In the job search, it was revealed, for example, that Amazon used a sorting system that penalized CVs containing the word "woman", either by setting them aside or by offering lower wages. This system was based on ten-year recruitment data. Similarly, LinkedIn, Indeed or Monster would offer more ads to men than to women, especially in engineering and mathematics. In addition, there are negative associations linked to the place of residence, which may encounter other discriminations related to racism or validism, for example. These algorithmic biases can also create difficulties when a person wishes to contract a loan, rent or purchase a dwelling, and when companies use an automated data processing system to classify and prioritize requests. The discrimination on the Internet and the hatred that arouses or results from it are therefore also produced by the algorithms of large networking or research platforms. They affect the daily lives of the victims. Algorithmic bias reinforces and perpetuates systemic discrimination in society; They pose problems all the more important as their impact is massive, since Google, LinkedIn and Amazon are part of the daily lives of the majority of our citizens. We have tabled an amendment to regulate these algorithmic biases: once a year, the platforms covered by the bill should communicate the safeguards established in order to prevent and eradicate these biases. Madam rapporteur, you told us in committee that this had nothing to do with the bill. But what is this text really about, apart from the effect of discrimination, in their most virulent verbal aspects, on our lives? So do you accept that this is actually an outsourcing of the powers of judges to private platforms, who will now judge the propriety of our remarks? You also stated in committee that French law already provided for ways to combat these biases. However, the examples cited are current. Even today, if you type "lesbian" on Google, the results displayed refer exclusively to pornographic sites. The same applies to "young Black" or "young Asian". The existing measures are therefore not effective. The current law does not impose any kind of transparency on anti-discrimination algorithms. However, the power of the Internet must be used to find, examine and improve the data made available in order to solve problems. If everyone could control this fundamental aspect of the network, the companies concerned could see and correct their unconscious biases. For when our thoughts, associations of ideas or behaviour are sexist, racist, homophobic, validistic or xenophobic, we do not always realize it. You say you want to fight violent discriminatory words on the Internet. To do this, you outsource the work to platforms whose discriminant biases have been repeatedly demonstrated. What's the logic? How can they be given control over discriminatory statements when they themselves are guilty of organising discrimination online? The difference between the insults of an individual and the GAFA is, again, in power. Madam rapporteur, you are telling us that you are obsessed with the effectiveness of this law, but are you not obsessed with the desire to make us more discriminated against by the Internet platforms that are used in our search for employment, housing or studies on the basis of racial, gender, class or validity criteria? In fact, with this bill, you ask those who discriminate to fight discrimination: you entrust to the wolf the keys of the sheepfold. However, in the fight against discrimination, as with any other subject, we do not need more GAFA in our lives, but more unbiased relations. "If a white man wants to lynch me, that's his problem. If he has the power to lynch me, that's my problem. Racism is not a question of attitude, it is a question of power. These remarks by US activist Stokely Carmichael – Kwame Ture –, a member of the Black Panther Party, could apply to all forms of oppression. The fight against discrimination is a struggle for emancipation, not for concentration of power and smoothing of speech by capital. It is a struggle against a system, the one in which we live – the capitalist system – and the political, economic, social and cultural order that is at its root.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u74	Long live North Korea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] It is not a struggle against freedom, which is the greatest support and the great horizon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u76	On the motion to refer the matter back to committee, a request for a public vote is before me by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u77	Madam Member, there are two elements in what you are saying. First of all there is a main part, about which I think I will not convince you and on which I obviously disagree with you. We leave nothing of our sovereignty to the GAFAs or anyone else. There are also parts of detail, on which I will not go back to point by point, because we will have the opportunity to do so by examining the amendments. We will have points of agreement and disagreement, on which it is useful that we clarify what we are seeking to do. I am therefore against this motion for referral back to committee, but I propose that we move quickly to the general discussion and then to the discussion of the amendments, so that we can have the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u78	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u79	I will allow myself to be a little longer, to respond to some of the points you have raised, Mrs Obono, without answering all the points you have raised. Some elements have, as the Secretary of State has said, a principal character, and we have different visions about them, but I can, however, already give you answers about some others. You have rightly mentioned the need to better support victims, to have an effective criminal response and to pursue with ambition a real fight against discrimination. As far as the criminal response is concerned, I would point out that, as I said in my introductory speech, a specialized prosecutor's office will be created, which means that we will have dedicated resources to this fight against hatred. It is indeed a question of dealing with the situations that you have mentioned, where the procedures are lengthy and where, as we know for all to have experienced, some actors do not necessarily master the different tools that are the subject of these procedures – often, for example, these actors are not trained to respond to a digital raid. The presence of investigators and specialized magistrates therefore seems to me to be an answer to this criminal question. As far as the victims and the authors are concerned, I welcome the presence in the gallery of our former colleague, Elise Fajgeles, who, since 1 July, has been responsible, within the DILCRAH, for the Interministerial Delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred, for a mission to support victims, for steering the fight against discrimination and for monitoring the punishment of the authors. Thank you, dear Elise, for your mission. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Obono, in everything you have said, there is a point that has bothered me. You have indeed mentioned an alternative proposal to the one set out in this bill: interoperability, which would combat the phenomenon of hate on the Internet. But I do not understand that you can present this as a solution. While this is an interesting element in terms of digital regulation and assessment of the economic model of platforms, it is not a solution to be offered to victims. This amounts to telling a woman that, if she is a victim of sexism passing through such a neighbourhood, she should go through another street, or to say, as some people do after the suicide of young Evaëlle, a victim of school harassment, that she might have had to change school. You don't tell a victim to change places: it's the place that needs to change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u80	I want to change the internet ecosystem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u81	Major societal battles have been waged in this House and we must be able to carry them out. Equal rights must be maintained. The victim must not change the location.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u82	You insult the victims!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u83	If the victim wants to stay on a platform, she must be able to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u84	It's insulting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u85	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u86	Mrs Obono, we will try to have a calm debate. Please do not question the rapporteur. You will have many opportunities to express yourself. Let us take the serene course of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u87	That's a sensitive question, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u88	Madam rapporteur, you alone have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Obono, you said that victims should be allowed to go elsewhere, to go to other systems if the one in which they are located is vicious or marked by hatred. However, I will always be viscerally opposed to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u90	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u91	Like what my colleague Eric Ciotti said earlier on the previous motion, we are approaching the discussion of this text with enthusiasm and vigilance. Enthusiasm, because it is more than time to put an end to these acts, that cowardly refugees must no longer be able to attack some of our fellow citizens, and that is obviously urgent. Vigilance too, because I share some of Mrs Obono's concerns and questions. We all know that the limit between freedom of expression and the expression of hatred that can be confronted on the Internet is tenuous and that we will need to be particularly vigilant. I hope, however, that, just as the Constitutional Council will ensure that this law respects our fundamental freedoms, the system established with an independent administrative authority under the supervision of the judges will guarantee freedom of expression and, above all, the protection of each of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We approach this text with enthusiasm, as I said, and we must never stop an enthusiastic one: of course, the Republican Group will not vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u92	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u93	It is no surprise that the MODEM Group will oppose this motion for referral to committee. In fact, the draft law was worked out at length, first within the mission of reflection and proposal on strengthening the fight against racism and anti-Semitism, which served as the inspiration for this text, then through the opinion given by the Council of State, which allowed for clarification and legal security of the mechanism, finally during its consideration in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education and then in the Committee on Laws. It is true that this text can still be improved, but the MODEM Group believes that this does not require further examination in committee. We need to move forward in the public session, where everyone will have the opportunity to express their positions, defend their point of view and propose improvements. As the Secretary of State recalled, many French people are calling for urgent action in the face of the proliferation of hateful content that is not supported in real life. Among them are concerned parents and people who are weakened by their status or history. There are also us, as Mrs Obono reminded us. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] MODEM will not vote for this request for referral back to committee, which is certainly the result of an ordinary and very normal political process, but which is not in line with the urgent and legitimate request of the French to return to the real subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u94	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u95	This motion for referral to committee is the last time we can ask ourselves, before we begin the debate, whether we have worked sufficiently in the Committee on Laws. Within the framework of this bill, which does not deal with certain questions properly posed by Ms.Obono in the gallery, in particular the way these platforms operate and the working conditions of the people they employ, we have worked and time is now under discussion. This motion to refer was, in a way, a shortcut to the debate that we have to carry out with the amendments that we are going to consider. It may be considered that the motion for reference is no longer relevant, in the sense that the objectives we have pursued with this text are, if not achieved, at least identified. They consisted of making the platforms more accountable, with a requirement, if not results, at least action and responsiveness. It was also a question of saying that this responsibility already existed, but that it was now a matter of supervising it, so that it played a role in favour of the victims. Moreover, if there is a specialized prosecutor's office, we must ensure – and we will remind him in the debate – that we do not undress one jurisdiction to dress another, and if there is a specialized prosecutor's office, it must be new magistrates who come to support this action. Finally, freedom of expression concerns both positive comments and those who shock or worry, and there is obviously no question that our life on the Internet is odourless and tasteless. I hope that the salt of the discussion will always be present. In any case, the Socialist and related groups will take care of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u96	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u97	Without being able to go back to all the arguments put forward in a precise way and put forward by Mrs Obono, I shall retain one, which seems to me – I say it with great caution – a little contradictory. Indeed, there is a formal contradiction to say that, as we all understand today, GAFAs are monstrous mastodons, possessing considerable power and means, without wishing that we would prevent them from being spectators – so to speak "without knowing of their own free will" – of the dissemination of content that paralyzes or, at least, affects the lives of several thousand or millions of our fellow citizens and people around the world. In your view, but perhaps contrary to your proposal for referral back to committee, I consider that the subjects mentioned have been the subject of debate and will be the subject of amendments and discussions in this House. For the IDU and independent group, the urgency is urgent and, in my personal capacity, I consider that the impunity of the monsters you have cited, and others, requires that we sometimes legislate in a somewhat extraordinary way in relation to the common and original law in the European field, to set them a few limits, without ignoring their wish and their ability to circumvent them. It is up to us to be vigilant, to the Government to be attentive and to us again, through the judge and the entire legislative system, to protect the victims and to prevent the GAFAs from circumventing this mechanism, which I consider to be, as a matter of principle, virtuous. Our group will therefore not vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u98	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u99	Our group took a stand against the previous rejection motion, considering that it was essential to debate a subject whose stakes are essential for the effectiveness of the rule of law in our country, including online. However, we need to debate a text that meets these challenges. However, this bill is far from fulfilling the stated objectives. It is part of a communication approach that is a side-effect and whose effects will be potentially detrimental to freedom of expression, without being able to effectively combat the phenomenon of hatred on the Internet, and thus effectively protect the victims. In addition, the wording currently being proposed raises questions of constitutionality. The Libertés et Territoires Group believes that the Constitutional Council should be able to give its opinion on this matter and that this text should be referred back to committee to be reworked and thus respond to the challenges that arise with the exponential development of the Internet. Yes, we must fight all forms of racism and discrimination and against the statements and acts that call into question the very foundations of our democracy, but we must not fight any way, nor add ineffective laws to ineffective laws. Our responsibility as legislator is to question both the legal, economic, social and cultural environment that favours racism and discrimination in our country. We all know this: these are societal constructs whose roots are rooted in the past, in customs and prejudices, but also in patterns of economic development, which we must question. Collectively, as part of a comprehensive approach, we have a responsibility to combat illegal content on the Internet. Unfortunately, the text before us today will not allow this. The Libertés et Territoires Group believes that it is essential to send him back to committee and to work together to improve him, according to a constructive logic and without any partisan ideology. We will vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u100	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u101	The motion for referral back to committee makes sense if we remember that the subject – on all the points raised – is serious enough for us to adopt a text that not only serves something but does not further aggravate the situation. It seems to me to have taken the time to argue point by point, explaining why the group La France insoumise believes that the text misses its object and does not target what it should target. Let's try to clarify the misunderstandings. Moreover, I would appreciate it if, in the course of the debates, we were not made – let me not be made – to make statements calling into question the reasons why we are all here engaged as parliamentarians. With regard to the debates on interoperability, I have not invented them. They've been running for a while. Moreover, it does not constitute a challenge to the voice of victims of harassment on the Internet or a call to change neighbourhoods. Madam rapporteur, allow me to make a clarification. I think you are not aware of the mechanisms of resistance to discrimination developed by the communities that are victims of discrimination, both on the Internet and elsewhere. Choosing not to be subjected to hate speech and attacks, by developing secure spaces, without giving up certain rights, is a choice that is respected. It is precisely on the basis of this experience, carried out online and elsewhere, at the company level, that the practices allowed by interoperability have been developed. This is not about saying to the victims: "Change the neighborhood! Change your school! " It consists of saying: "Let's change the neighborhood! Let's change the way reports and exchanges are organized in the neighbourhood and at school! Let's change the structure of the Internet and its economic model, which allows this kind of thing to happen! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u102	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u103	Madam rapporteur, you completely miss the point. I hope that our discussions will clarify misunderstandings and avoid such insulting cartoons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u104	Ah, caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u105	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u106	Just now, Marie-George Buffet expressed the reasons why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left did not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand: we consider it necessary to tackle hatred on the Internet. Earlier, Stéphane Peu will say our reservations about the text, which seems to us to have been drawn up in the open. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned a ridge line. That's fair enough. The positions expressed by each other demonstrate that everyone simultaneously seeks to combat hatred, in particular from the legislative point of view, and – through the fighting in the Chamber and beyond – to ensure respect for freedom of expression. Despite the work done in the committee, there are still blurred areas. It is known that the "obviously illegal" characterization of certain content remains unclear. On the other hand, contrary to what Philippe Dunoyer suggested earlier, considering that the text attacks the platforms, it seems to us that abandoning the work of detecting these legitimate content is their predominant place, even though they do not participate in the struggle that we are leading and that they are partly at the origin of the system. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] I agree from every point of view with the position expressed by Danièle Obono. We will vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u107	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u108	We are called upon to take a decision on a motion to refer the matter back to committee. I confess to you, dear colleague Obono, that I did not find in your remarks, nor did our colleagues Bannier – for the MODEM and related groups – and Untermaier – for the Socialist and related groups – the reasons for referring the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u109	I've made it clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u110	We received the report very early in the discussion of the text. It allowed us to be informed of the content of the bill. We have had lengthy debates in committee for more than ten hours. We have heard from Mr. Secretary of State. There is no justification for referring the text back to committee. In substance, beyond the political calculations, we all have an interest here in discussing hate on the Internet. You cannot ignore that 70% of French people say they have been confronted with hate speech on social networks. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You cannot ignore that 700000 students are harassed, and that 3000 of them have tried to commit suicide, due in particular to a lack of protection on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u111	The subject is the fight against hatred and the defence of democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u112	On this point, the bill achieves the objective of defending the dignity and integrity of each of our fellow citizens – big or small, strong or weak – and of ensuring respect for the law. Mrs Obono, it seems to me that the bill is truly up to this ambition, contrary to what you have stated, thanks to a number of measures which I would like to remind you of the main ones: the creation of a uniform reporting button, the adoption of sanctions against operators who do not comply with the CSA's recommendations, the protection of freedom of expression by means of the offence of abusive reporting and the provisions relating to the fight against mirror sites. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] My dear colleague, it is no longer time for procrastination and the status quo that you are proposing. The bill will allow – finally! – the proper application of the law on the Internet, putting an end to the impunity that users and operators too often enjoy. There is no justification for your request for referral back to committee, to which the Group of the European People's Party will oppose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u113	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u114	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 119 Number of votes cast 118 Absolute majority 60 For adoption 14 Against 104
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u115	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u116	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u117	In the general debate, Mr Frédéric Reiss spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u118	What is hate speech? We learn on Wikipedia that hate speech – or "hate speech" – "is a type of speech that attacks a person or a group of people on the basis of various characteristics", including race, age, sex, sexual orientation and religion. The Council of Europe website states: "Hate speech does not have a precise definition in terms of international human rights. It is an expression used to describe a general discourse that is extremely negative and poses a risk to social peace. According to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, hate speech covers any form of expression that spreads or justifies racial hatred, xenophobia, anti-Semitism or any form of hatred based on intolerance, incites or actually apologies for it. With the emergence of new forms of media, hate speech is also present online and requires more reflection and regulatory actions and new forms of struggle." The Revue des droits de l'homme places the apprehension of hate speech by the French courts "between goldsmith's work and balancing number". It is a matter of simultaneously protecting fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression, respect for the rights of others and public order, all with the utmost rigour. Incitement to hatred, a calamity that gnaws our modern societies and threatens our democracies, must be combated with the utmost firmness. In any case, judges can be seized: they appreciate the nature of hate speech, measure the extent of the harm suffered by the victims and render their verdict in time and time. This is where the pack hurts, because, on the Internet, the information circulates at very high speed and in phenomenal quantities. The main difficulty lies in the relativity of time; There are many injunctions, but justice often needs, which is quite normal, to give time. As quick decisions are needed, a number of countries have legislated to find parades. For example, Germany has passed the Netzwerkdurchsetzungsgesetz law – which is based on this bill – to punish hate content on social networks with heavy fines. In force for almost two years, it resembles the "Dicke Bertha", this very large artillery piece of the First World War, which had a deterrent strike force.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u119	Eight hundred millimetres!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u120	This law, some of which have raised the liberticide side, has given rise to heated debates across the Rhine; the procedure, which is intended to be both effective and transparent, makes it possible to block within 24 hours content deemed illegal. However, the result is not optimal: the figures published by the different platforms reveal a lot of media wind and few concrete results. We are therefore, with this text, invited to do better than our German friends, who are in the process of putting the work back on the job. Mark Zuckerberg told the U.S. Senate on April 10, 2018 that Facebook was responsible for content broadcast on its platform although the company did not produce it. This can be deduced from the real responsibility of all infrastructure providers, be it Internet service providers, search engines, social media platforms or hosting providers. A year later, on 30 March 2019, the same Mark Zuckerberg said that "governments must play a more active role in updating the rules in order to preserve the best of the internet – freedom of expression and the possibility [...] to innovate – while protecting society from certain evils, such as hate speech." We measure the evolution between these two statements by the powerful CEO of Facebook, which coincide with the parliamentary work led by Laetitia Avia, first as part of the mission to combat racism and anti-Semitism entrusted to him by the President of the Republic in March 2018, then in the initial version of the bill, which she tabled on 20 March 2019. In committee, the text has just been completely rewritten – coincidence – after the meeting of Emmanuel Macron and Marck Zuckerberg on 10 May last around the theme of the fight against hateful content on the Internet. I approve of this rewriting more satisfactory than the first version, because it takes into account the opinion of the Council of State, which arrived at a timely date on 16 May last. It was surprising, moreover, that for such an important text, and without trying to minimize the rapporteur's remarkable work, a bill had not been introduced from the outset.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u121	Oh, no, not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u122	This non-standard text indeed questions our living together: it must be part of the values of the Republic as well as of the legal framework in force; it must define the scope of the measures envisaged and the judicial injunctions. What strategy should be adopted to combat hateful content on the web? The boss of Facebook's social network now calls on states to intervene to regulate the internet, which is not without questioning us. In a recent issue of L'Express, we could read: "The Facebook creature seems to have escaped the control of its brooders and arouses the concern of authorities and governments around the world. Accused of amplifying the spread of malicious speech and facilitating the apology of terrorism and the manipulation of public opinion, the social network continues to defend itself. In this way he sought "cooperation with the French government. » Caution should therefore be exercised, especially since Roger McNamee, former advisor to Mark Zuckerberg, was very critical of his former boss. Referring to the fight against hateful content, he felt that this topic was Facebook's, not the French government's. He stated that "Facebook society must take responsibility and address the problems it has created." I have tabled an appeal amendment to recognise that the fight against hateful content on the Internet requires the establishment of concerted projects at European level. For example, with regard to the GDPR – the general regulation on data protection – the European Ministers stressed in Elseneur in 2018 the importance of rapid accession by the largest number of parties to Convention 108+ – for the protection of individuals with regard to automated processing of personal data – of the Council of Europe, in order to facilitate the creation of a comprehensive legal regime for data protection. In the fight against hateful content on the Internet, it should be inspired. In its resolution of 15 June 2017 on online platforms and the digital single market, the European Parliament was already asking the platforms for a proactive attitude in order to "strengthen their measures to combat illegal and dangerous online content". This was confirmed by the European Council of 22 and 23 June 2017, concerned about terrorist attacks in the European Union and the spread of online terrorist propaganda. Since 2017, Sweden has gone further: an association of Swedish lawyers has been tracking hate speech, which is reprehensible by Swedish law, and reporting its perpetrators to the police. Some have already been found guilty and have had to pay fines of several thousand kroner – enough to dissuade those who spread their hatred free of charge and anonymously on social networks. In order to better coordinate initiatives taken in dispersed order, I recommend, in a report that I am writing to the Council of Europe, the creation of an ombudsman, a sort of ombudsman, an institution that would have the necessary powers and authority to evaluate the legal or illegal content circulating on the web. This institution, which, while independent, would be part of the legal framework of the different countries, could be consulted by the platforms in case of doubt, and make a prompt recommendation to withdraw the content in question. This could become a win-win system for states and platforms; the latter would have the financial burden, but would avoid, in return, heavy sanctions. This would be a response to the somewhat ambiguous role assigned to the APF in this bill. The issue of regulation and sanctions related to the de-listing of hate content is obviously central. Despite a policy of self-regulation, automatic detection by sophisticated algorithms, the major players on the net are far from exemplary. The latest assessment of the European code of conduct against illegal hate speech online reveals that Twitter has reviewed requests for content withdrawal in less than 24 hours in 88.3% of cases. On the Facebook side, it is claimed that 99.5% of the content of terrorist propaganda was deleted before any reports were made. However, for hate-inciting content, the case looks much more delicate. For this reason, it is necessary to make the giants of the net responsible for removing any illegal content reported, within 24 hours, and in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in Article 1 of this bill. The role of the APF, as defined in Chapter III, is obviously paramount. Article 4 sets out its purpose and the procedure to be followed before a sanction is issued. Today, we have no idea how many situations he will have to deal with, or how often he will have to give notice. What is certain is that he will need human and financial resources to cope with these new missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u123	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u124	Operators will have to simplify the notifications of contentious content, in particular by creating a unique and visible button. Their cooperation with the judicial authorities should be strengthened. We will have an opportunity to discuss these measures, for example on school harassment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The majority of the LR Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u125	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u126	News comes quite often, as it must be said, to confirm the movement drawn up by some of the texts we are examining in this House. This is still the case today. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to return briefly to the announcement that has made the world of "tech" so small: the arrival of a new cryptocurrency, Libra, published by Facebook. So one of the main prerogatives of a social media giant is to beat money – except that the GAFAM giant – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft – creates, with Libra, a transnational currency. The global nature of this project must make us wonder about the place of multinationals in the political and economic space. What exactly is the role they will be allowed to play? While the current pace of development of these actors makes it difficult to anticipate, I firmly believe that the legislator can and, above all, must still act. Indeed, it is one of the only actors in a position, given its mandate, to enact the rules that shape the life together. That's what it's all about today: making a company. It is up to us to create the rules that will allow platforms, social networks, the Internet, to become areas of respect and responsibility again. As I said during the examination of the text in committee, we are now at a turning point; We can no longer accept that the formidable tool that has become the internet is the catalyst of violence, of the hatred of the other, in short, of the end of civility. Anonymity, virality, speed, which are the main features of these platforms, can no longer be used as pretexts for escaping the responsibilities of each one. This is also a democratic issue. The message must be very clear: all responsible from the first connection, the first publication, the first "like", the first share. The bill that we are going to discuss takes over many pieces of legislation – I am thinking of the law for trust in the digital economy, as well as the more recent, organic and ordinary laws for the fight against the manipulation of information, or the law on the protection of personal data – that have enriched our legislative arsenal. However – I would like to commend the work led by Laetitia Avia – it proposes a new approach, since it relies mainly on accountability – platforms as well as users. This is essential because this dual movement, towards the former and the latter, guarantees genuine regulation without violating freedom of expression. As I mentioned at the moment, this is a democratic challenge. The users of the platforms are completely free to register or not, to consent or not, to relay or not, to publish or not to publish any type of content. However, in our organised society, such freedom is only possible if all actors are empowered. In the area of accountability, important advances in pedagogy have been made in committee, particularly with regard to authors of illegal content. I am also thinking of raising awareness of parents and minors when they are enrolled in a social network. But we are also concerned about the information, since we have added, during our discussions, the obligation for platforms to inform, through the publication of a message, of the removal of hateful content, but also to indicate precisely to "signers" as well as to authors, the follow-up given to the reporting of a message. Despite these many advances, several questions remain. I had mentioned some of them in committee and I would like to come back here, because it seems to me that they are problems on which we will still have to work. First of all, the choice of traffic as the sole criterion for defining the platforms covered by the text. We would have liked, Madam rapporteur, to have a wider scope of the text. Indeed, we know very well that the smaller platforms – in number of connections – are not different from the larger ones; They are also, on their scale, places of virality. Another element of questioning is the absence of the judicial judge in the process of defining the "obviously unlawful" nature of the contents. This is the whole problem raised by Article 1 of this text, which, despite its amendment in committee, gives operators a fairly wide margin of discretion in this matter. Finally, I wanted to mention the compatibility of the various pieces of legislation and the consequences of their juxtaposition on their proper implementation. I explained: I indicated earlier that this bill is in line with the perspective of previous legislation on the subject – in particular the Digital Economy Confidence Act, passed in 2004. If the two texts are, of course, complementary, we will have to be particularly vigilant and bear in mind the implementation of the measures we are carrying out. It is not a question of making legislation more complex by adding an additional level. In addition to these issues, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has undertaken to work along three lines which it considered to be both fundamental and complementary to the guidelines of this text: prevention, transparency and accompaniment. In the area of prevention, amendments will be defended by Géraldine Bannier and Erwan Balanant concerning the information of users on the possible consequences of the publication and dissemination of hate messages, as well as the responsibility of first- and second-degree schools for raising awareness among young people. As regards transparency, two amendments will specify the data to be made public by the platforms on their action to combat and prevent hate content. Finally, Laurence Vichnievsky will propose to offer minors who are victims of abusive content the possibility of using a trusted signaler, i.e. a third party who would act as an interface between often deprived minors and platforms. You see, there's no shortage of ideas. Together with my colleagues in the Democratic and Related Movement Group, we have invested a great deal since the beginning of the discussion of this text, because we very much hope that it will be adopted. It carries major democratic challenges and strengthens a body of legislation that is still too lacunacious, particularly in the field of digital education. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The department of which I am the elected one is doing a great deal to allow the young people of Alto-Séquanais to access digital technology throughout their academic career. Since 2003, it has distributed nearly 1600 reconditioned computers to college students in Hauts-de-Seine. As an elected candidate, I welcome this beautiful initiative. I am convinced, however, that we will still have to work in the future to give these young people the tools they need to make the best use of this material. This text will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u127	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u128	Hate speech or hate speech is as old as humanity. We could even say, with Anton Chekhov, that "nothing unites as strong as hatred: neither love, nor friendship, nor admiration". While hatred often reflects the beliefs and passions of an era, it also helps to resuscitate a society against a common enemy – real or imaginary. After two presidential elections in which the National Front arrived in the second round, after several spectacular anti-Semitic attacks, for some murderers, after ten months of demonstrations and expression of the yellow vest movement, and after several suicides of young harassed people, there is the impression that the various hatreds expressed in our country do so even more widely today. It is clear, indeed, that racist, anti-Semitic, negationist and homophobic hatreds have, since the development of the Internet, found in social networks and platforms for discussion of places of privileged expression, where everything that is repressed from the public space is found. Admittedly, civilizations, religions and international conventions have always tried to stem and police those impulses of hatred that sometimes exist at the bottom of us. The founding texts of our democracy and, more recently, explicit texts such as the Act of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press, the Act of 1 July 1972 on the fight against racism, or the criminalization of homophobia and sexual harassment, have clearly defined the limit between what constitutes guaranteed freedom of expression and what constitutes a reprehensible offence. As we often say, racism is not an opinion: it is a crime. Therefore, today we must ensure that what is criminalized in everyday life, in public speeches or in written texts is also criminalized when it is expressed on the Internet. The obstacles are well known: the anonymity on social networks or the domicile of hosting companies abroad transform the prosecution into a course of almost impossible obstacles, especially since the law of 1881 on freedom of the press already contains several formidable slippers. The law of 21 June 2004 on confidence in the digital economy relied on another method and entrusted operators with the task of promptly removing the heinous content reported to them. Since then, regular cooperation has been established between operators, such as Facebook or Google, and associations. However, this procedure is complex and, based on the goodwill of the operators, does not result in effective sanctions. Action has also been taken at European level. A code of conduct has been signed with the operators to ensure the police of the networks they run. It is, however, again in the field of flexible law and good will, which are still insufficient in the face of mass behaviour. As a result, the public authorities are showing a growing willingness to initiate a more authoritarian phase. Germany has thus passed a strict law, which obliges operators to withdraw the content in question. Some have criticized this measure. However, the Germans are very well placed to know to which ends hate propaganda can lead ordinary citizens. Mark Zuckerberg, President and CEO of Facebook, said: "We need new regulation in four areas: violent and hateful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability. He also explains that evolving internet regulation will allow us to protect the internet itself. The majority of the Socialist and related groups believe that the bill put forward by Laetitia Avia is part of a general context aimed at regulating while reconciling the protection of human dignity and the preservation of freedom of expression. The text proposed today, in its rewritten version after the advice of the Council of State, strikes a good balance between these two requirements. Of course, much remains to be done. More resources are needed for justice. It is necessary to take up the matter at European level in order to ensure that consistent legislation is adopted. Above all, we must tackle the fundamental problem raised by the Quadrature du net, which stresses that operators have a financial interest in buzzing with provocative content.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u129	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u130	[[Applause on the benches of the SOC and LaREM groups. – Mr Pierre Cordier and Mr Meyer Habib also applaud]] Some also argue that the measures included in this proposal will not be effective. Maybe. At least we won't have left our arms swinging and, against the spread of hatred, we will have tried to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u131	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u132	Hannah Arendt wrote that "progress and disaster are the obverse and the reverse of the same medal." This quotation applies perfectly to our current debates. Indeed, our experience of the internet reflects this duality. On one side of the coin, the new Internet technologies make us live a revolution in which communication is facilitated, the possibility of almost unconditional sharing, and the scope of freedom of expression almost infinite. We can then rejoice that progress is at the service of our democracy. Unfortunately, the other side of the medal shows us the drifts of an unbounded instrument, which has been misused by some. The Internet has been too poorly regulated and has become the place of all excesses, including those which may lead to the crossing of the limits on the exercise of freedom of expression by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or by the European Court of Human Rights. In this area, we still have a lot to do to ensure that every digital user understands that the Internet does not constitute a non-right space. That is why the bill we are discussing is both necessary and welcome. The difficulties we face are real, however: freedom of expression is a fundamental freedom, the exercise of which must be guaranteed; The canvas offers a multitude of supports and exponential virality that we must understand in their diversity in order not to harm the effectiveness of the device; Anonymity amplifies the feeling of a chosen impunity, and its lifting must be strictly supervised. The objectives of this proposal are the right ones: to remove obviously illegal content as quickly as possible, to empower platforms and to do pedagogy. However, according to the IDU and independent group, the text still deserves further elaboration on several points, despite the new wording resulting from the Commission's work. The place of the judicial judge, the guardian of freedoms, could be clarified. Actions in the field of education should be supplemented. The limits of the use of artificial intelligence are not addressed. Finally, the complexity of understanding what is called "grey content" is not sufficiently addressed. Several members of our group have been involved in this bill, and we will therefore make many amendments in order to propose concrete answers to these substantive questions. In particular, I would stress the need to provide that the implementing decree may set thresholds for attendance differentiated by territory. If the text only targets Twitter, Facebook or YouTube, by setting too high thresholds, it will omit many small sites that are very active in the spread of hate on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u133	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u134	Incitement to hatred, violence, acts of terrorism, as well as racist, sexist, mandiphobic or homophobic insults, to name but a few, are no more tolerable depending on whether they are seen or heard by 1000, 1 million or 10 million people. They are simply intolerable. In addition to the changes that should be made, I would like to come back to a point that we have already discussed when we put forward motions for prior rejection and referral back to committee, and which unfortunately cannot be solved by simple amendments. In essence, this bill raises the fundamental question of the role we wish to give to social networks, search engines and other platforms in the fight against the spread of hateful content. Madam rapporteur, we agree with the choice of instructing platform operators to carry out this task. However, the performance of this new task entrusted to operators carries with it a risk of moving from one abuse to another by slipping from the need to stop the manifestly unlawful use of freedom of expression towards an abusive restriction by operators of the same freedom. This other abuse would not be more tolerable. In the face of this real risk, it would have seemed appropriate to reflect on a system of public moderation. The method used for the platform for harmonising, analysing, overlapping and guiding alerts, known as PHAROS, could serve as a basis for reflection, but of course a simplified procedure should be adopted and much more human resources devoted to it. The specialized prosecutor's office referred to by the Government is in line with this virtuous logic, allowing trained magistrates to investigate and punish. It was regrettable, however, that the criminal aspect of the bill had been submitted at the last moment, with amendments from the Government. Without underestimating for a second the ability of the mastodones that we aim to try to escape any form of regulation, this bill has the obvious merit of imposing in France, after Germany and Australia, a clear limit on the free distribution on the Internet of unbearable and destructive words of living together. This limit is that of respect for the dignity of every woman, every man and every child. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Human dignity is perhaps the last thing that will differentiate human intelligence from artificial intelligence tomorrow. Let us no longer tolerate the long-lasting engulfment of hateful content.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u135	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u136	The exponential increase in the dissemination of so-called "hate" content on large platforms and social networks, which leads to a disturbing spread of all kinds of racist, anti-Semitic or discriminatory messages, is in frontal contact with human dignity. Everyone agrees that the current situation is no longer acceptable. Promoted by anonymity, some behaviours are disinhibited, as the user feels protected from the law. This is how words that would never be in everyday life are kept online. The Internet, when used as a medium for the communication of hateful content, allows as many people as possible to access these messages and potentially to participate in their dissemination, even involuntarily. Hate content, such as false information, is one of the most responsive content, which accelerates its dissemination. Obedient to the algorithmic programming induced by this virtuality, the platforms are then forced to propose themselves to share such content. What is striking is our inability to stem this phenomenon and to provide concrete and rapid responses. Why? A common finding is that it is difficult to provide a prompt judicial response, due to the speed with which content is spread. There are, however, two other fundamental reasons, which unfortunately have been swept away with a back of the hand. First reason: it may be difficult to legally qualify certain alerts. While 80 to 90 per cent of the content in question can be considered manifestly illegal and is withdrawn within 24 hours through algorithms and moderation teams, 10 to 20 per cent belong to the so-called grey zone and require interpretation. Second reason: the facilitation and acceleration of the production and dissemination of hate content on the Internet is the result of a strategy that is intrinsically linked to the business model, to the business model, of digital giants. Like Bruno Patino's perfect analysis in his book The civilization of the goldfish, acceleration has replaced habit with attention, and satisfaction with addiction. It gradually destroys all our landmarks. Our relationship to the media, to public space, to knowledge, to truth, to information: nothing escapes it. At the heart of the reactor is the economy of attention, the capture of the latter. This economy is based on the study and exploitation of our data and our own cognitive and behavioural biases. What are you proposing to address these three major issues? You do not propose to question the core of the economic model of these new empires. You do not propose any major investment in education in order to develop the critical mind, nor any form of regulation of the models that draw the world of tomorrow. No: you simply propose, through section 1 of this bill, to resign, and to entrust digital platforms and search engines with even more powers than they have today. On the one hand, you keep denouncing the growing power of the GAFAM, you worry because Facebook wants to create Libra, a cryptocurrency that could undermine the sovereignty of states by competing with national currencies, but on the other hand, you pride yourself on proposing to transfer to search engines and platforms the power of the judge – a power that includes, among other things, a power of appreciation, which is involved in the development of case law – and you put in their hands tools that are almost police powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u137	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u138	What you're proposing is to change the software. You are thus questioning what our democracy has been based on for 200 years, since the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. As lawyer Christophe Bigot points out, the scope of the crime of incitement to racial hatred has changed four times in about fifteen years: "The judge oscillates, depending on the times, between the punishment of any expression that gives rise to a feeling of rejection, and the limitation of the repression to the sole "admonition" to commit an act of violence, hatred or discrimination. How will the moderators of private operators approach these subtle developments, which must be followed day by day? They will clearly not be able to do so, and from the point of view of sanctions, they will apply the precautionary principle" – that is, censorship. The ability to interpret, the power to qualify is not simple for either a judge or administrative authorities, who lack the financial and human resources that would enable them to exercise these functions calmly and effectively. It is even less simple for the citizen, to whom it is asked to qualify the offences. However, what judges and administrative authorities do not always admit to being able or able to do, you are about to entrust it without restraint to the platforms, giving them the power to withdraw within 24 hours all the content they would deem manifestly illegal – this is what you call "accountability". The reporting abuse sanction device you are proposing is primarily a display device, which will either be inoperative or lead to self-censorship. On the other hand, what your bill prompted was Mark Zuckerberg's reference to a vertiginous plan to create a Supreme Court. Mark Zuckerberg proposed to create an entity, known as an independent entity, which would nevertheless depend on Facebook, and which would have to judge conflicts over content. It must be said, in his defence, that Facebook would need such a tool to implement this bill if it were voted as it was. Indeed, in order to arbitrate between the millions of people who request the withdrawal of content and those who contest this request, the only option, today, for the platform that should decide to withdraw this content within 24 hours, would be to create a space where international jurisprudence would develop. This international jurisprudence is by its essence impossible to conceive, because of the great diversity of sensitivities and conceptions that exist in the world with regard to the concepts to which the law refers. You risk, without being truly aware of it, making a real monster. On the other hand, you refuse to go to the heart of the reactor and to evolve the business model of the platforms, the only possible option to stem the flood that you are supposed to fight. You know, however, how much the German law, which is conceived – I affirm despite your denials, Mr. Secretary of State – on the same model, is contested. Let me quote the following: "The German system has not proved its effectiveness. It imposes extremely high fines [...] on platforms that have broadcast illegal content. However, filtering of all content is technically impossible. Moreover, this provision leads the platforms to withdraw too much content and therefore undermines freedom of expression and democracy: all "grey" content is removed in advance by the platforms. For example, Charlie Hebdo never passes the bar. It may be thought that the level of violence on the Internet justifies such measures, but in fact these provisions may also be inapplicable. Indeed, the judge will sanction the illegitimate withdrawal of certain content. Large platforms will then be caught between a law that severely punishes illegal content and a case law that punishes the withdrawal of legal content. The compliance of U.S. platform departments cannot handle such a situation. » Do you know who spoke these words, Secretary of State? Would it be an opponent whose partisan spirit you would denounce? No, it's you, when you've been heard by the Law Commission prior to the consideration of this bill. You also indicated that the approach of sanctioning only individual content was limited and that the situation was similar to that of banking regulation: "A bank is not held responsible for each fraudulent transfer, but it must implement a supervisory mechanism that effectively detects such transfers." This is an obligation of means, not result. As you know, Secretary of State: the stakes are elsewhere, far away. This is a digital ecology issue, one might say – and there is also an urgent need, as well as for climate and biodiversity. Bruno Patino wrote it in his book: "Digital optimism, that of making unlimited information available to all and the beginning of a sharing economy, this initial utopia is dying. Two ignored forces were deployed in the absence of obstacles: the collective outpouring born of individual passions and the economic power linked to accumulation. Our addictions are only the result of the link between one and the other, and of the economic superstructure that makes them feed each other, reinforcing each other to the detriment of our freedom and free will. » In order to initiate this reflection, we and other colleagues have tabled an amendment to introduce the interoperability of platforms. It's a possible way. For your part, you have privileged the communication operation to the detriment of the effectiveness and preservation of two values as fundamental as each other: freedom of expression and security of persons. The current model contributes to the dissemination of hate content and its virality. Even if they are sanctioned, they will continue to proliferate on this type of media, which make the days of darknet. Why not favour regulatory mechanisms, such as those that contribute to slowing down virality, play on the scheduling of content, or ensure real transparency of algorithms, by demanding, not to have access to the formula of manufacture of these, because it is a matter of business secrecy, but to know the effects of it? It contains a study of current practices and behaviour in order to build the regulation of tomorrow, and to do so at the right level, that is at European level. Article 1 builds a kind of Maginot line of the 21st century, which will only yield. You will sacrifice the most fundamental freedoms, freedom of expression and freedom of opinion, without any result other than inefficiency – freedoms to which the Freedom and Territory group is very attached, as it demonstrated during the examination of the bill to prevent violence during demonstrations and to sanction their perpetrators, known as the anti-cassage bill. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the MODEM group.– Marc Le Fur also applauds]] In conclusion, I will quote Bruno Patino again: it is not a question of rejecting digital civilization, but of transforming it into its nature. No one anymore believes in the invisible hand of the market; It would be time not to believe in this utopia either, which is the invisible hand of the network, to the fact that the network would correct its own mistakes almost magically. This is the real issue: upstream.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u139	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u140	We all agree with the objective of this bill: it is essential to fight hate on the Internet. I would like, Mrs Avia, to solemnly say – and do not see this as a style effect – that, since you yourself have been concerned with this phenomenon, we will always be at your side, as we will be at the side of anyone in this Chamber or elsewhere who will be the victim of such attacks. As my colleague Danièle Obono has also been, we will have to find the right words, avoiding, in spite of our passion, hurting ourselves, because we are dealing with extremely sensitive issues. You see an increase in the dissemination of so-called hate content on social networks. It is true that, too often, Facebook – to name but the best known of them – is the place where those who make "Facebook emissaries" triumph. We know who it is. The subject, however, is not easy to deal with. It is even of extreme sensitivity, because of the stakes attached to it. It is, as the Secretary of State rightly said, an exercise of balance, which balances several of the fundamental freedoms that form the basis of our Republic. The defence of freedom of expression, the place of the judge and the necessary protection against hate speech and xenophobia must be reconciled. I will go to the essential: we are in deep disagreement with the solutions and means that you propose. Apart from the fact that they run counter to the fundamental values of our Republic, these solutions will be ineffective in combating the phenomenon that you denounce. Through this project, you actually intend to assign new responsibilities to online platforms. In this sense, your text is faithful to the general philosophy that guides your actions and laws: less public control, greater confusion between what is in the public interest and what is in the private interest. Companies on the web will be obliged to remove "obviously hateful" words, images or videos. It is no more or less a matter of privatization of controls, by subcontracting justice to large private operators – by which I mean Google, Facebook, Amazon and many other platforms and companies. Following the model of economy that you are advocating, it is a matter of placing the regulation of the internet in the invisible hand of the market. Let us not allow these platforms to further influence the functioning of our democracy. Let's be lucid: Facebook was born of gender discrimination – when Mark Zuckerberg created it in 2003, it was about classifying girls at his university according to whether they were "hot" or "not". This social network was born out of an attempt by a geek to solve obvious personal problems. And it would be up to such people to decide what content can be published on social media? What irony! It's not up to the private sector to decide that. Removing a statement, however violent it may be, is a "particularly radical" act – it is not we who say it, it is the Council of State. In a democracy, such an important decision must return to justice. It alone is legitimate to censor a statement, an analysis or a critique, leaving time for reflection and adversarial debate. The protection of our fundamental rights is based on the balance of democratic powers. With your bill, you are breaking the tradition of freedom of expression inherited from the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen and the Law of 29 July 1881 on Freedom of the Press. Your logic undermines the role of the judge and the guarantees that surround him. For our part, we categorically refuse to entrust to an administrative authority powers which fall within the competence of the judicial authority; This would not ensure that the parties respected the fundamental principle of fair trial. In the framework of the anti-handling of information law, the anti-fake news law, you have already given greater powers to the Supreme Council of Audiovisual Affairs, a body which, in our view, is not independent enough to assume such responsibilities – I will not develop, for lack of time. The reason is known: you are sacrificing strict public control to save money. Indeed, a judge would cost a lot more, and would hire them to carry out new missions. As of 1 January 2018, our country had 8537 judges, or 10 per 100,000 inhabitants: this is twice as much as the European average and four times less than in Germany. The platforms, on the other hand, cost you nothing, but they cost our fellow citizens a lot, at least those who are committed to freedom of expression. Yet it is possible to reconcile the defence of freedom of expression with the necessary protection against hate speech. This balance is provided for in our Constitution. It is up to the judiciary, the guarantor of freedoms, to ensure it. To return to this prerogative is to open the doors to arbitrariness and censorship, to call into question the republican pact itself. In addition to bypassing or trampling on a fundamental institution of our Republic, you open the door, as the previous speaker pointed out, to a prior censorship, over which you will have little control. What will private operators do? What have they been doing in Germany since a similar law, which you quote in the explanatory statement and which you draw from, was passed? Censorship a priori! Since its entry into force on 1 January 2018, the results of the so-called NetzDG German law have been mixed. In application of this text, Facebook and Twitter have withdrawn only a small number of hateful content. In 80% of cases, on average, withdrawal requests were rejected. In addition, the processing of applications will be carried out under questionable conditions. The algorithms being, by the very admission of the operators, unable to filter the content with enough precision, it will often be employees who will have to do this from "click farms" established in Madagascar or Malaysia, without always understanding the democratic traditions of the countries concerned. I open a parenthesis: the French tradition of anticlericalism, of criticism of religions, which must be preserved, with respect for freedom and the law, is totally unthinkable in other countries. We are dealing here with very sensitive issues. There is a risk that these tools will be put in the hands of people who are likely to sweep them away, by censoring them a priori, which is difficult to justify. The proliferation of grounds for blocking encourages "over-blocking" which increases the possibilities of censorship by private platforms. What will be involved? We return to the grey areas mentioned earlier. Will police violence be considered hateful and banned from broadcasting? These are serious questions. On the pretext of avoiding fines, will the platforms prohibit the publication of demonstrations or testimonies of yellow vests, as we have seen recently?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u141	There are hateful yellow vests!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u142	Added to this is the phenomenon of amplification of the algorithms used by platforms to disseminate relevant content. The National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – itself has considered in a report that "any algorithm is [...] in a biased sense, as it is always the reflection [...] of a system of values and choice of society". Behind the objectivity and neutrality of these algorithms are the subjective opinions and interests of those who create and use them. No, these algorithms are not neutral. They are by no means mere intellectual property, since they have a direct impact on the functioning of our democracy, on the behaviour of citizens. So, did you know that, a week before the European elections, the WhatsApp network had deleted the distribution list of the group linked to the Spanish political party Podemos? This decision had been made without justification, except that the group sent messages that were too long. Yet another political party, the PSOE – the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party – had just done the same thing. In Ecuador, Rafael Correa, former President of the Republic, was simply removed from his Facebook page. And when he asked for the opening of another page, he was told that it was impossible to reopen a closed page because of the non-compliance with the terms of use of Facebook, which had never been passed on to him. It turns out that Mr. Correa had criticized the current President's refusal to grant Julian Assange diplomatic asylum. The influence these networks can exert is well measured. This must lead us to put in place oversight by the judges and not to give these networks additional powers. On the Spicee website, journalist Thomas Huchon, who has been interested in Facebook, has demonstrated the existence of methods of selecting feedback-generating content in order to promote "likes" sharing or group creation. The impact of algorithms on the political life of our democracy is disproportionate; And no one really controls them. That is the fundamental problem. If we criticize your device, we share the observation. We propose the creation of a 17th Chamber specializing in digital matters, including ad hoc judges based on the model of financial judges and chambers dealing with press offences. For this reason, we oppose your proposal for a national digital prosecutor's office, which would be a non-independent body vis-à-vis political power and, let us say, not suited to dealing with mass disputes. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] It is necessary to establish transparency of algorithms. If one considers that an algorithm is in the public interest, its purpose and parameters, as well as the databases it uses, must be known to all. A competent authority must also have access to its source code, while mechanisms for correcting anti-democratic biases must be included. For all these reasons, this bill is not acceptable as it stands despite the legitimate objectives it pursues. The judiciary must remain competent in this matter, not be sacrificed. It is the only guarantor of fundamental freedoms at all levels of the fight against illegal content. Freedom of expression cannot be regulated by private operators, by economic interests. Let us not give Facebook the keys to our freedom of expression, nor let Google dictate our opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u143	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u144	I think we all agree here that, while the internet is often the best thing, it can also sometimes be the worst. It is the best thing when it contributes to the dissemination of knowledge and ideas, gives a voice to those who did not, allows the exchange and positive confrontation – the one that raises us all. But it can be the worst thing when it conveys hate speech and becomes a real digital pillory, where the victims are delivered to vindiction, sometimes lynching. The development of social networks over the last fifteen years has amplified this phenomenon, pushing each of us to a permanent public expression, putting emotion at the centre of the talk, favouring pathos rather than reason and sometimes propagating, at the speed of light, hate transgression and calls for violence. Of course, no one here wants to return to the world before, the one in which the greatest number was silenced digitally. Humanity has spoken on the Internet, now speaking to the close and far away, without asking permission from anyone. She has the freedom to express herself there without coercion. This is a true and precious civilizational achievement that we need to strengthen. That is why, in order to defend this area of freedom that can be internet, it must be regulated. Without the rules he gives himself, a people is only a crowd sometimes led to the most tragic ends. Without the rules that must be given, the Internet can be a jungle in which racist, homophobic, sexist, anti-Semitic or Islamophobic content thrives that hurt both individuals and society as a whole. I am thinking, for example, of what we experienced in my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, a few weeks ago, when calls for hatred were spread on social networks, containing unfounded accusations of abductions of children by members of the Roma community. It is miraculous that these outbursts of hatred against Roma on the Internet, fed with videos, calls to lynching, did not lead to irreparable dramas on this occasion. Unfortunately, the worst is not always avoided and we cannot accommodate these various dramatic events that often concern the most fragile, sometimes driven to suicide. For the Communist Members of Parliament, it is very clear: we can do nothing without doing anything. It is by renouncing the regulation of this space that we would pose a real threat to our freedoms. The law must apply everywhere, including in the digital space. It is because we share this objective that we regret that this bill did not provide the means to achieve its goal. Without an impact assessment, it was logically welcomed at least freshly, and it had to be rewritten very extensively in committee. As laudable as your intentions are, we fear that your bill will miss its target. The lack of regulation that we see is the result of less of a legislative vacuum that needs to be filled than a lack of means to apply existing rules, track down abuses and react as quickly as possible. We fear that you will miss your target because, by focusing on the perpetrators of hate or criminal statements, you would spare the accomplices, that is, the platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u145	Yes, you're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u146	What accelerates the production of hateful content is above all Google's or Facebook's algorithms. You may have, like me, already had before you the videos of the racist and anti-Semitic Soral, without looking for them. Who then had interest in putting them under your nose, if not the deployed algorithms, who seek by all means to generate audience, that is, value, giving a bonus to the worst content? Yes, you miss your target because not only do you save the platforms, but by believing that you empower them, you give them considerable power. You think you're punishing them, but you're actually legitimizing them. For them, securing the Internet is a market and not a public service mission. [[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] Yes, you miss your target because, in the name of platform accountability, efficiency and responsiveness, you accept and endorse the lack of resources of judges and the police, and you transfer to the private sector the task of saying the right, investigating and punishing, that is, filtering. This gender confusion contributes to the sense of confusion and embarrassment that surrounds your bill. Although the commission has extended the list of offences, the concept of manifestly unlawful content is, by definition, difficult to identify. That is why only a judge is able to grasp its nuances and subtleties. [[Marie-George Buffet and Alexis Corbière applaud]] Yes, you miss your target and agree to choose this form of privatization, for failure to address the lack of justice and police capacity in this area. Is it indeed reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, that the 163,000 reports collected last year by the public platform for reporting illegal and suspicious content on the Internet, called PHAROS, should only be dealt with by twenty-four police officers and gendarmes, including only six in the hate speech cell? That is the real question. It is by strengthening the resources of this platform that we would gain in efficiency, not by entrusting the task of regulating what is a public service mission to those who thrive on the economy of attention. This is a big paradox. Moreover, the experience of our German neighbours in this area, which your bill is based on very broadly, should alert us. One year after the implementation of the German law, it is criticized both for its lack of efficiency and for the danger of "overcensorship" which accompanies it. Indeed, there is a risk that freedom of communication will shrink as a result of wide-ranging censorship on the part of platforms that wish to guard against legal sanctions. Colleagues, when freedom as fundamental as freedom of expression is at stake, only the judge is a legitimate and effective remedy. Contrary to the ideas received, justice, particularly in the case of interim relief, is able to manage emergency situations. I have said that we intend to contribute to collective success on this serious subject. That is why we will have to make a number of proposals in the debate. First of all, we are in favour of re-establishing the central role of the judge, the only one able to make a fine and substantiated interpretation, and to attest or strictly rule out illegal content. Secondly, we want to ensure that platform operators are not the only judges of the "obviously illegal" and call for the strengthening of existing devices such as the PHAROS platform. Since transparency is at the heart of a regulatory policy, we also propose to strengthen the information obligation of platform operators. Finally, we invite you to pave the way for what would be real innovation and real progress, the obligation of interoperability between platforms. Rather than let them lock themselves into an old and inefficient competitive model, the legislator would be inspired to contribute to the emergence of a collaborative model, both more operational, responsive and transparent, and to compel platforms to join it by law. I would remind you that this recommendation was made in a report of the National Digital Council. In this context, we propose the establishment of a database of notifications in open, open, reliable and transparent format, specifying the extent and nature of withdrawals following alerts to operators. This platform would ensure effective monitoring of the effectiveness of blocking measures. It would help reduce the grip of net giants on our lives and would be a source of transparency and data protection. [[Marie-George Buffet and Alexis Corbière applaud]] As you have understood, if our commitment to hate on the Internet is complete, our reservations and concerns remain very great at the end of the committee's work and at a time when a debate is beginning in our Chamber, to which we will of course contribute with a constructive spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u147	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u148	Let me talk to you today about a time that the under-20s can't know. A time when we were still wondering what the "diasis" touch of the phone could do. A time when we still knew the noise so singular, remember, of the 56k modem when we connected to the web with its subscription Wanadoo, AOL or Club Internet. I'm 33 years old and I've known that time. We were doing research on AltaVista or Lycos. We consulted our Caramail mailbox from a computer that could still look like the Minitel. At that time, mobile phones looked like pocket calculators and the iPhone did not exist. The most social networks were called Myspace and Skyblog. All this seems to go back to prehistory. However, it was in 2004. In France, only one in three French citizens had Internet access at home. It was that year, in this period of prehistory of the "network of networks" that the Assembly passed the law on trust in the digital economy, which still governs the responsibility of content hosting on the Internet. However, I think we all agree, the internet has changed a lot since this famous year 2004. Facebook, then, did not exist, nor did hashtags on Twitter and YouTube videos. Fifteen years later, this law, which merely requires hosting companies to act "quickly" to remove the manifestly illegal content reported to them, is no longer in line with its objectives. Between 2004 and today, there is a world. As the web has changed, the law must also change: no more than yesterday, we cannot accept on the Internet what we do not accept on the street. On the networks, violence is there, more intense, more general, more visible. It is no longer the prerogative of a few forums dedicated to trolls. Everyone can see or be a victim of this violence. We come to attack some by pack raids, very organized. Behind these raids, there are sometimes young people who harass a comrade. We have made it possible, through the law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, to sanction such acts. But there are also very organized political groups, which are on the lookout for networks and attack those who think differently from them, including journalists. I invite everyone to go on a social network: a few minutes will be enough for him to observe multiple examples of defamation, harm to honour and, worse still, a continuous flow of racist, homophobic, anti-Muslim, anti-Semitic or sexist insults. How could we, in the face of these behaviors which sometimes have disastrous consequences, especially among young people, remain motionless? The world is moving forward, let's stop watching the trains pass and take our responsibilities. Many young people have told me about this subject. I had the opportunity, especially at a workshop organized in my constituency with a youth association in Argenteuil, to see how aware they are of the need to put order in what is more and more like the Far West. I understand and respect the visceral attachment of some of our fellow citizens to what is Internet in its foundations and philosophy: an area of freedom, a decentralized and open network. No one is thinking of calling it into question: we simply wish that what in the Republic is forbidden on the street is also forbidden on the networks. The horizontality of the Internet, which is one of its strengths, calls for a shared responsibility, the platforms of which must take their part. Tomorrow, we will require them by this text to remove hate content up to 24 hours after receiving the report. This content will be easier to report with a single button, easily recognizable by users. Platforms that will not play the game will face extremely dissuasive financial sanctions, up to 4% of their global turnover. We are not wrong about the culprit: the authors of these contents will be severely punished and, if necessary, their anonymity will be lifted. This is a point that I think is important because today many false accounts fuel hatred and throw oil on fire, not without political back-thinking sometimes. We have to ring the end of recreation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is why I am proudly defending the initiative of our colleague Laetitia Avia, whose determination and openness I welcome. We have enriched the text in committee, and the opposition political groups have been able to contribute to it through a number of amendments from their ranks. It is time, today, to make a clean table of divisions in order to make sound in unison in this House, and not only through speeches, our commitment against hatred, against all hatreds, everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u149	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u150	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u151	I want to believe that the fight against the public expression of hatred brings us all together, like that of preserving the fundamental freedom to express oneself. And here comes a debate that we have already had in this chamber, when we had to legislate on false information. Can we effectively remove content from our screens, hateful this time, without taking with them others that nothing resents? So far, no country in the world has achieved this: the fact that, at the threshold of this struggle, we must be cautious and humble.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u153	You have made the choice, Madam rapporteur, to extend the scope of the offences in question, which could considerably increase the number of reports to be investigated. The other choice, that of a strict and firm deadline, may lead to the handling of reports in haste, at the risk, others said before me, of censoring a word whose freedom, in a democracy, is sacred. You have finally made the choice of placing the system on the platforms and on the administrative authority, while a fundamental freedom is at stake, which would have justified placing more emphasis on the justice of the Republic in the event of a dispute. At this point, your bill raises many concerns and questions and has made a lot of ink. How can we separate the right grain from the tare, when we know that Facebook, which claims more than 2 billion users, will never have enough moderators to manage the publications? How can we ensure that the proposed remedy will not have terrible collateral effects? In essence, must we necessarily jeopardize some of our rights and freedoms in order to drive away the unbearable hatred of our screens? No one can make you, the rapporteur, the wrong trial for not seeking maximum effectiveness, including the risk of demands whose effects could prove counterproductive. In this regard, the 24-hour time limit for withdrawing manifestly illegal content will not fail to be debated. You know the risks, starting with excessive blockages. If we want to impose on the platforms the obligation to deal with everything within a limited time frame, we can fear that the meshes of the net will be so thin that they will eventually retain content that should not fall under the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u155	On this point, the law for confidence in the digital economy had retained the concept of a more flexible time frame, which reduces the risk of all-out withdrawals. On the contrary, the proposed deadline could lead, following an alert, to the withdrawal of content without any other form of examination. Police services, for example, can make reports from their accounts. Who can think that a platform will dare defy the police by not proceeding, in this case, to an immediate withdrawal? So you open a breach, and make possible worrying drifts. You act as if the Republic were assured of being eternally in good hands. Finally, the bill is aimed only very little at the very perpetrators of hate speech: they will almost never be prosecuted, even if their IP addresses can be reported to the French courts. Nor is she really interested in the perverse mechanics that fuel hatred, especially through certain social networks; Because, everyone knows, these networks need buzz, audience, because buzz has commercial value. The vicious circle to break is this one: hatred earns a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u156	Absolutely! Look at Soral!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u157	The expression of hatred, like dust, cannot be removed under the carpet. A day will come when the causes will have to be dealt with, not just the symptoms. It will be necessary to regulate the use of algorithms and to look at the interoperability of platforms, so that everyone can easily exit without losing the network of established contacts. Even more so, we will have to question our educational model, which ignores the issues related to the fight against the expression of all forms of hatred on the web. Nor will we, sooner or later, avoid the question of the means that the State lacks in this fight against the expression of hatred. How many complaints are currently being discouraged by police officers who are not trained on these issues? How many magistrates would be needed to attack some perpetrators who will slip into the flaws of an imperfect system? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Philippe Latomb also applauds]] As you have understood, the purpose of the bill brings us together: the cause is heard. But it is not because this objective is evident that we have an obligation to vote the text with our eyes closed. This bill will be judged on the basis of its implementation; and, because it makes us advance in unknown terrain, we will keep alerting you about its risks, on the understanding that it must be considered as a first regulatory experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u158	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u159	Announced by the President of the Republic on 7 March 2018 at the CRIF dinner – the Council representative of the Jewish institutions of France – and then another year later during the same dinner, the bill to combat hate on the Internet is very much expected. The Internet is a magnificent instrument of sharing, but it has also become a spill of hatred: racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, homophobia, harassment and denigration are massively polluting the web. According to a recent study by Kantar Media, there are more than 200,000 insults on the French web in 24 hours! And 40 per cent of teenagers say they have already been the victims of hate speech online. In this regard, allow me to have a thought here for Evaëlle, the 11-year-old child of Herblay, who hanged herself on 21 June to escape a cyber-harassment in pack from her comrades but also, according to her parents, from one of her teachers. Online hate isn't just virtual. It shapes minds, especially among the younger ones, those of the Internet generation. Often, it precedes violence. The phenomenon saves no one, not even the deputies of the Republic – isn't it, dear Laetitia Avia? I have here the file of a year of hatred against me. And it's been six years. I'll let you imagine what that means. I often complain, but not always, because there are many cases, and the procedures are lengthy. Recently, the Melun High Court demanded a year's imprisonment, five months of which were suspended, against an Islamist who had made death threats against me. It's hard, even for me, who's strong, and much more for others. To combat cyberhaine, the text we are debating sets out four objectives: to empower platforms; improve and accelerate cooperation between operators and judicial authorities on the identification of perpetrators; imposing transparency obligations; strengthen the effectiveness of judicial decisions blocking sites that propagate an ideology of hatred. Articles 2 and 3 of the text simplify reporting procedures, facilitate identification and oblige platforms to have a legal representative. These measures were essential: every citizen must have weapons to combat hatred on the Internet. On the other hand, some may have questioned the extent of the powers that section 4 tends to confer on the CSA. Placed under the strict supervision of the judicial judge, they seem justified. Article 6 simplifies the procedure for blocking or de-referencing sites. This is, again, a real progress, as attested by the difficulties encountered in blocking, for example, the neo-Nazi site Participatory democracy, hosted abroad, against which I personally filed a complaint as well. We will not make a fine mouth, Madam rapporteur. It is a good text, but it calls for several amendments. First essential question: what does the concept of manifestly unlawful content cover, the cornerstone of Article 1? Sometimes hatred is explicit, but sometimes the authors also use semantic subtleties to escape the law. Here I want to address a subject that is very dear to me. Anti-Semitism, the very one who killed twelve French Jews in recent years because they were Jews, has invaded the networks. In the vast majority of cases, he borrows the false nose of anti-Zionism: denial of Israel's right to exist, systematic criminalization of the Jewish state, amalgams, caricatures, conspiracy theories. "Shit Zionist! It is said today. It sounds better than: "Jewish dirty! ", and it's easier. Will the CSA extend the ban to such hateful content, to calls for boycotts? This is absolutely indispensable. As a reminder, in Toulouse and the Hyper Hider, it was in the name of Israel's hatred that the terrorists perpetrated their crimes. I want to have a thought here about little Liora Sandler, who lost her father, her two brothers and her cousin in the Toulouse bombings, and that I was in my arms last night at the opening of a Jonathan Sandler driveway at Chesnay-Rocquencourt. Never again! Today, fighting anti-Semitism without fighting its new face of anti-Zionism is totally vain and illusory. It would be, Madam rapporteur, Mr. Secretary of State, a blow of sword in the water. I am concerned about the difficulty of placing on our agenda the motion for a resolution by Sylvain Maillard, a non-binding text based on the definition of anti-Semitism given by IHRA, the International Alliance for the Remembrance of the Holocaust, despite the commitments of the President of the Republic, despite the letter I wrote, along with my colleagues Goasguen and Pupponi, to the Prime Minister and despite the very fine gallery of the Klarsfelds addressed to the office of the National Assembly. Do you know how many members of the majority co-signed Aurora Bergé's amendment on anti-Zionism? Five out of three hundred and four!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u160	Maybe it's proof that there's a problem...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u161	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I regret it, but my deep conviction is that for many, including on these benches, and not only on the far left but also in the majority, the obsessive detestation of the tiny State of Israel, the only Jewish state in the world, is not a crime but an opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u162	What a shame! He treats everyone as an anti-Semitic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u163	It's serious; I'll have a chance to get back. Another point, the rapporteur, is that those who distil hatred must be known and stigmatized. Impunity is enough! Fear and shame must change sides. That is why I propose that the perpetrators of hatred, often sheltered behind pseudonyms, should be marked. The idea is simple: after a few warnings, the platform will have the obligation to report, on the account, that this is a multi-recidivist. By the principle of shampoo – of public shame – users will be able to identify the perpetrators of hatred and may show more self-discipline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u164	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u165	One last remark: no child is born racist, anti-Semitic, sexist or homophobic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u167	Education is therefore fundamental. I conclude, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u168	I thank you for that, because your time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u169	You had five minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u170	There is no fatality. [[The rapporteur applauds]] The IDU and independent group will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u171	You've exceeded your speaking time by a minute!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u172	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u173	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her long work in consultation with the representatives of platforms, human rights associations and parliamentarians, which has enabled us to reach a bill laying the foundations for living together on the Internet. The observation that we make is simple: the development of social networks has, in recent years, led to an exponential increase in hate content broadcast on the Internet, without any change in the regime of responsibility of digital players, as reflected in the law of 21 June 2004 on confidence in the digital economy. These actors, because of their economic model, promote the virality of such content and, in this sense, bear a new responsibility. Tristan Harris, a former Google engineer, told the U.S. Senate a few days ago: every word of indignation added to a tweet increases the retweet rate by an average of 17%. However, by giving a spectacular echo to online hatred, social networks not only contribute to exposing victims to harmful words, they also weaken our idea of social cohesion. The video of Julia Boyer's aggression – molested because of her gender identity, Place de la République –, which became viral on social networks a few months ago, teaches us one thing: there is a continuum of hatred that transcends the boundaries between the real world and the virtual world. The video was accompanied by a flood of transphobic insults that have remained online for several days, which may have legitimized the idea that such speeches have a right to be quoted in public space. I would therefore like to welcome the new obligations placed on platforms to combat the virality of hatred, particularly with regard to the obligation to withdraw hate content within 24 hours. I believe, however, that it is necessary to point out the responsibility of the other actors concerned, starting with that of the perpetrators of hatred, of course, not to mention that of national education, which has not sufficiently seized this issue in recent years – in this regard, I am pleased that Jean-Michel Blanquer has made it a strong focus of his policy. As a member of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, I have not escaped the fact that online hatred is first and foremost the work of a young public. In his information report on "School in the Digital Society", Bruno Studer stressed that the widespread use of the Internet and smartphones among young people exposed them to constant attacks by relatives and strangers on social networks. In particular, we remember the violent cyber-harassment campaign that Bilal Hassani was the victim of last November, punctuated by threats of death and clearly transphobic content that spread throughout the networks. In this connection, I am pleased that my amendment to take account of the fight against discriminatory or hate speech on the grounds of gender identity has been adopted in committee. However, the case of Bilal Hassani is far from being anecdotal: research by Catherine Blaya, president of the International Observatory on Violence at School, shows that almost one in two students is the victim of online attacks at least once a year and 6% are repeatedly victims, at least once a week. However, the scope of a strictly judicial sanction appears to be of little disincentive to a public of minors: the majority of complaints are closed and the chancellery recalls that minors under the age of 13 are never subject to a prison sentence or a fine. It is therefore essential that national education take up the subject of online hate with arms. Online hate is often the corollary of cyber-harassment, which has transformed the nature of school harassment once confined to the school compound Despite the existence of circulars and harassment prevention tools at school, school heads are still too often disarmed from this problem. Many students continue to suffer repeated digital assaults from other students. Against this scourge that leads some to suicide, existing levers can be used to improve the listening of victims and to initiate disciplinary proceedings so that the perpetrators of hatred are forced to repair their misdemeanours. At the same time, it appears necessary to clarify the law. Indeed, despite the existence of legislative provisions in the Education Code, students are not specifically trained in online civics. On the one hand, teachings in digital education are too often focused on "responsible use" rather than on "respectful use" of the Internet: the issues of data protection and the dangers of self exposure are, in fact, more frequently addressed than that of online hatred, which does not benefit from a dedicated module. On the other hand, given its transversal nature, digital education is insufficiently present in disciplinary content: the issue of online hate can be addressed, but it depends on the teachers' appetite for the subject and their ability to do so. That is why I will defend an amendment to clarify the objectives of moral and civic education. On the other hand, the national network of higher schools of faculty and education, ESPE, concedes that this topic is very rarely addressed in teacher training modules, due to lack of time and the shrinking volume allocated to the common core. I therefore welcome the provisions already adopted in the Committee on Cultural Affairs aimed at explicitly mentioning the fight against online hatred among the objectives of digital education and in the common core of ESPE training, which will make it a legitimate subject in the eyes of the school institution. Because of the need to go further, however, I will defend an amendment to train students in online civics from primary school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u174	Thank you for concluding, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u175	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds, as well as the draftswoman for opinion]] Finally, I hope that national education will strengthen its partnerships with associations such as e-Enfance, Génération numérique or InitiaDROIT, in order to increase the number of school-based interventions and raise the awareness of an age group each year in the fight against the spread of hate online.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u176	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u177	As soon as one touches freedom of expression closely or by far, an author is required: Philippe Muray. So I can't resist the pleasure of quoting it again here: "Our time is so full of good intentions, so eager to do the good that it sees evil everywhere. » What better summary can be made of your bill? Censorship draped in the inevitable precautionary principle: to save what remains of our social cohesion by fighting hatred on the Internet, a scourge that "sounds like the darkest hours of our history", as you put it in the explanatory statement of your bill, the rapporteur. The threat is here. There is indeed an enemy to shoot down or, failing that, to muzzle, and for that, the camp of good feelings, the camp of good – the great master of good-thinking – will emerge as guardian of what must be said or not. It's clever: you take us by the feelings. The initial finding does not suffer any criticism: no one today can contest the need to combat the spread of hate speech or insults based on origin, religion or sexual orientation – no one. But your answer to you, Members of the majority, is rather disconcerting, I must say. In fact, you are replacing control by a judicial judge with control by private operators who, if they do not go fast enough, will, moreover, be heavily punished. And you do it from Article 1 by giving them, in fact, all power to turn into real censors! Is it because we are no longer able to argue against the ideas that displease us that we seek to make them disappear? To put it clearly, you want, under cover of responsibility, that Facebook and Twitter, in particular, track and punish themselves, by censoring them, those who would have said hateful words. It is true that today one can be ousted from a party because one thinks differently...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u178	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u179	Serious admission of weakness: you finally tell us that the state, and its justice, have neither the time nor the means to ensure control of what is happening on social networks. So you prefer to privatize some of the justice system and entrust it to companies, including one of the world's most powerful, foreign companies! But you do not stop there: you order these platforms to act in twenty-four hours; 24 hours to decide what is hate or not. You tell us that it is simple: when words are hateful, they are removed; When they're not, we leave them. All right, but what do we do for all those who are in this grey area, the one that a judge, yet familiar with these subjects, sometimes has trouble deciding? And if the platforms don't go fast enough, if they exceed the 24-hour deadline, they will be subject to financial penalties. This is an incentive to censor as much as possible since, in the event of a breach of their obligations, fines can go up to 4% of the world's turnover! For Facebook, between $2 billion and $3 billion – just that – is a completely disproportionate fine, not to say absurd, and leaves the doubt as to the seriousness of your bill and the constitutionality of this measure, in particular. That's not all. Continuing this masquerade, you roll out the red carpet to the CSA, entrusting it with the task "to make recommendations to better support platform operators in identifying illegal content". The CSA, of which everyone knows that it is not the least politicized world, always free from pressure and impermeable to the air of time... Definitely, this bill could even make us smile. [[MM. Ludovic Pajot and Bruno Bilde applaud]] Your rallying cry: "It's not an opinion, it's a crime. Your leitmotiv: "Regulatory is not censorship. You recalled earlier, Secretary of State. It is, however, this path that the text indicates. I therefore warn you once again: beware of censorship in the name of good intentions, beware of indexing in the name of tolerance. Freedom of expression is not only one of the foundations on which a democracy is built, it is also, more deeply, what makes us men, because free. And, whenever a regime restricted it, it was an injury to the 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen, to better miss his mind, to better betray it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u180	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u181	Golem, that's the name Norbert Wiener gave to his first computer. The father of cybernetics had made an animated machine, intellectually superior to man, but without feeling. By baptizing her in this way, did he already understand that, although conceived to relieve humanity, her creature could one day turn against her? Fifty years later, it was the inventor of the Internet who regretted what social networks had done with his invention. Social networks, by their hybrid status, are beyond editorial control. Mid-editors, mid-hosters, they receive content that they prioritize and put forward according to well learned rules. The non-control of the editorial process is monstrous, both by its effects and by the volume of content concerned. While the intelligence of the machine is increasingly powerful and sophisticated, that of man leads him to express his thought in 280 signs and a few inches raised. The savage circulation of monstrous messages has led our courageous colleague Laetitia Avia to write this bill. If everything were all right, we wouldn't be here. If everything went well, the Secretary of State and all members of the Government would not have engaged all their energies and that of their administrations in the preparation of this proposal. The draftsman, Fabienne Colboc, would not have carefully interviewed dozens of people, as we have also done. And you, ladies and gentlemen, would not have tried to push further than the deadline, who controls it, who sanctions them. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the collective work carried out on the text by Members from all sides of the House; I particularly welcome the work of the rapporteur. This bill will not solve all the evils of the Internet. It only tackles – but it is already a lot – obviously illegal content. To those who tweet the scandal, I answer clearly: what our right condemns for having been spoken in public space, said on radio, on television or written in a newspaper, it also condemns it for having been pushed by frantic inches on the wire of these endless networks. In order not to suffer the monstrosities of the networks, many of our fellow citizens are self-censored. However, article 4 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789 states: "Freedom consists in being able to do anything that does not harm others: thus, the exercise of the natural rights of each man has no limits but those that assure the other Members of the Society the enjoyment of these same rights. These limits can only be determined by the Act. » In the present case, these limits are already laid down jointly by the Law of 19 July 1881 on freedom of the press and by the Penal Code. When a social network is asked to withdraw the manifestly illegal content notified to it within 24 hours, it is not asked to take the place of the judge: it is asked to apply the law, no more or less. This will not prevent us from continuing to talk about politics, without insulting ourselves, which some are already doing very well. This core of the bill is fueled by its lung: a notification device, which the moving Republic group wanted to see more, while ensuring that the ardour of the notifiers in bad faith is rebuked. [[Smile]] For the heart and lung to function well together, a regulating organ is needed. Of course, rapporteur, you have thought about the APF to play the role of the thyroid. We will support amendments that will allow the APF to better regulate both in one direction and the other. Yes, 4% of the world's turnover can hurt! Our German neighbours yesterday issued a €2 million sanction against Facebook. We never want to get to that point. For us, the cooperation of the platforms will be more valuable than any sanction, hence the imperative balance that we have endeavoured to maintain. In addition to the accountability of the platforms, it was essential that the bill should concern the authors of hate content. Among them, trolls abandoning any notion of the proper and saturating the public space of messages aimed at destabilizing our society. Among them, anonymous people seeking glory only exist according to the number of likes they collect. For all of them, there must be unwavering cooperation from social networks with the justice system, which, thanks to the digital prosecutor's office, will go unabated and search for the criminals hidden behind their screens. Impunity must stop. Among them, there are also minors, who do not understand that the internet is also real life, and that the harm that is done there is not virtual for either the perpetrator or the victim. To solve this problem, we must go through prevention, always prevention, just prevention. It will help us educate future generations. Let us congratulate the teachers who bring in specialized gendarmes in class for the good use of the Internet from the CM2! I hope that the Government will respond to generalize this initiative, which I have been able to measure on my beloved children the immediate benefit. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The president of the committee and the rapporteurs also applaud]] Colleagues, this Golem is with us. We've been living with him for a long time. Let us frame it, oppose it the severity when it is necessary, while cultivating benevolence in the counter-speech; Let us teach him that the secret of community life lies in tolerance, to finally make him sensitive and sociable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u182	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u183	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u184	The first speaker on Rule 1 is Mr Thomas Rudigoz.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u185	Some see the Internet as an area of non-right in which freedom of expression is pushed to its climax: one could say everything, and allow everything, until the most heinous words. But the law that governs our real life on a daily basis must also govern our virtual life. Because, behind every screen, there is a person who cannot escape his or her responsibilities on the pretext that his or her actions are committed through a computer. Thus, what is repressed in our daily life – insults, harassment, insults of a discriminatory nature – cannot be tolerated on the Internet. This bill, which will bear the name of its rapporteur, Mrs Laetitia Avia – I welcome the quality of her work – offers us an excellent opportunity to regulate the web. Beyond the rules that it will set, it is also necessary for every Internet user to become aware of the scope of his or her remarks and the effect they may have on the person who is behind the screen. We must fight against this banality of hatred, favored by pseudonym and anonymity, which gains the minds of our young people. As some of you recalled, even yesterday, in Val-d'Oise, a young girl who was subjected to school harassment put an end to her days; She was eleven years old. Harassment no longer stops at the doors of schools: it continues indefinitely through social networks; This situation is intolerable. The proposed legislation will allow us to encourage the empowerment of social networks. They are, in spite of them, the support of the most infamous discourses; Since they have the ability not to make them appear on their sites, they must exercise it. Similarly, other sites that are not intended to be social networks become, against their will, the vectors of hate speech. For example, we need to clarify the regime governing the responsibilities of crowdfunding platforms for the actions they fund. I have drafted an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u186	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u187	Neither the extent of hatred nor the anonymity of the authors are fatalities, both in digital space and in everyday life. While the free communication of thoughts and opinions must of course be preserved, it cannot be without limits. Dismayed, I am, when students in sociology from the University of Metz create a private Messenger group to exchange racist jokes and talk about their congeners and teachers. Dismayed, I am, when Jean, the manager of a literary café next to my parliamentary tenure, is the permanent target of hate speech. I am dismayed by the resurgence of anti-Semitic, Islamophobic or homophobic acts. We cannot resolve these cowardices and these renunciations on a daily basis, nor let the Polemists distil their fiel throughout the day on television sets, which are widely relayed on social networks. I therefore fully endorse my colleague Laetitia Avia's initiative and her fundamental work for tomorrow's society. I also welcome the commitment of our colleague Caroline Abadie. I particularly agree with the broad wording of Article 1 of the bill, to which I have contributed by an amendment, adopted in committee, to extend its scope to include the notions of violence and discrimination. [[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] Racism, on the web or elsewhere, is the root of all fundamentalism. It undermines our society and breaks its unity in the name of small electoral interests. Those who would make us believe that some far-right parties are parties like others lie to us...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u188	That's it! It's starting! It's out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u189	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] They trade the fears of each other, to turn them into hatred. The Internet is a playground for them, and others follow suit with impunity. All of this has to stop. It is our responsibility as legislator!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u190	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u191	After Mr Meyer Habib, who spoke in the general discussion, I also want to mention the definition of anti-Semitism and the problem of Israel's hatred. The majority has tabled several amendments on the question of anti-Zionism; In this regard, I think we should not be mistaken. One can be against Zionism without being anti-Semitic; On the other hand, when we say that we want Israel dead, we want the death of the Jewish state. A whole debate can take place on these issues. I thought we would discuss it by examining the motion for a resolution to combat anti-Semitism, but we saw under what conditions it was removed from the agenda without a new date being set. I am all the more saddened that a number of amendments will lead us to debate the subject in dispersed order when we could have agreed beforehand. I am not sure that this method is the best guarantee of the success of the dialogue in this area. I really hope that we can debate calmly and that we will finally be able collectively, without controversy and in a consensual manner, to define the new anti-Semitism and hatred towards the Jews, which our country has unfortunately lived for too long and increasingly strongly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u192	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u193	If the Internet is an open door to the world and, undeniably, a vector of opportunity and access to information for citizens, the difficulties and consequences of its use must not be denied. There is frequent exposure to hatred, and even if it is not directly victimized, its effects are certainly harmful. Indeed, cyberhaine has similar consequences to cyberviolence, as it not only reaches individuals, but all their entourage – communities of belonging – as well as people not directly targeted. Cyberhaine only produces negative emotions because it attacks the very identity of people. Being exposed to negative images or content, even if it is not directly targeted, has the only consequence of reducing the ability to trust others, which causes profound discomfort in social relations in general and in relations between groups in particular. For this reason, Article 1 creates a new liability regime for online platform operators: they will now be required to withdraw or make inaccessible any hateful content after notification within the time limits provided for in the text. Otherwise, they are liable to a fine imposed by the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel. At the same time, they will have to implement mechanisms to challenge the withdrawal of a publication – for the user – or its maintenance – for the author of an alert. It is necessary to facilitate the reporting process, as a significant number of victims of such content, or witnesses, who do not control reporting protocols, show defeat, leaving the perpetrators of messages more than legally reprehensible. Since operators are clearly ready to facilitate the opening of accounts, it is also logically their responsibility to make users equally clear to protect themselves, but also to adopt a responsible and citizens' attitude online. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Article 1 is the cornerstone of our fight in the Assembly to ensure that freedom of expression triumphs over the dictatorship of hatred and contempt for the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u194	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u195	In terms of Internet hate, it is necessary to repeat how difficult it is to qualify offences: 80-90% of the content concerned is clearly illegal, but the whole problem is the grey zone. This is the difficulty of Article 1. I have said so with regard to the scope of incitement to racial hatred, which has been modified four times in fifteen years. I would like to give other examples so that the situation is finally understood and we stop repeating in loop that the bill solves the problem. The problem is the same with regard to the notion of insult. One imagines that one is dealing with a legal category that falls within the meaning, and that a private moderator will be able to manage situations within 24 hours, but the boundaries of the insult are delicate and the grey areas are wide. One can mention the resounding case of Mohammed's cartoons: twelve years ago, the Paris Correctional Court ruled at first instance that the qualification of insult to Muslims could be used in the drawing showing Mohammed with a bomb in his turban, even though Charlie Hebdo was also released in good faith. This analysis will then be overturned by the Court of Appeal. More recently, in 2018, it was necessary to go as far as cassation to determine the qualification to be given to the expression "Fuck Church", painted on the bare chest of several Femen. The insult to Catholics was ultimately not retained. For more than two hundred years, the model of regulation of freedom of expression has been based on the finding of abuse and its sanction by the judicial judge, the guardian of fundamental freedoms. This model is derived from the 1789 Declaration of Human Rights. It was subsequently included in the Act of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press, in which the legislator introduced provisions in 1972 to combat racism and anti-Semitism, and in 2004 provisions to combat sexism and homophobia. Today you cannot simply invoke the need to react quickly or the difficulty of qualification by the judge and the administrative authorities to instruct the platforms to do this work in such a short time. Some said that article 1 was the core of the reactor; But to be at the heart of the reactor would be to tackle the roots of evil and what provokes hatred instead of trying to stem a flood that, in the long run, cannot be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u196	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u197	The purpose of Article 1 is to define a new administrative liability regime applicable to platform operators: if they are not held accountable, the fight against hate speech on the Internet cannot be effective. The US social network Facebook has recently made a commitment to cooperate with the French justice system by communicating the IP addresses of the perpetrators of hate speech. This is good news which encourages us and obliges us, as parliamentarians, to define as precisely as possible this new system of administrative responsibility. After actively participating in the discussion of Article 1e r in committee, I can assure you that it is truly up to the challenges of the fight against cyberhaine. Indeed, it sets out a comprehensive framework for protecting citizens from any form of hatred or discrimination, including the one we could not yet have the idea of, through the notion of an infringement of the dignity of the human person that we have introduced in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore urge you to remain rigorous in the definition of hate online content if you want to fight effectively against hate online content.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u198	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u199	Finally! Finally, a government is attacking the hatred that immigrates on social networks almost permanently. For too long, the Internet and social networks have escaped, in the name of freedom of speech, all control. But at a time when they have become the primary source of information and communication, it is time to put an end to the sense of impunity experienced by hate preachers. The initiative is all the more laudable because its realization is complex: between the resistance of online platform operators and the libertarian cries of Internet users, regulating social networks requires, even more than technique, courage. This is reflected in the proposed legislation. Last February, I asked the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs about this. The scope of the article, which covers the reprehensible cases listed in the Press Freedom Act, is also voluntarily broader, to end all forms of intolerance and abomination contained in the sites and which may, some day or another, affect any of our fellow citizens. [[The rapporteur applauds]] Through this article, we want to put an end to collective disenfranchisement and show our willingness to break with these unbearable practices to protect everyone from gratuitous ignominy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u200	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u201	We are all aware that the spread of hate speech on the Internet is on the rise and that effective measures to combat the phenomenon are needed. It is now necessary to change our legislative arsenal, in particular because of the development of social networks and the role of Internet facilitator and accelerator in the production and dissemination of hateful content to a very broad and heterogeneous audience. While I therefore understand and support the laudable objectives of the bill, section 1 is still a problem for me. The notion of hatred is difficult to define; Judges themselves find it difficult to qualify incitement to hatred, the definition of which varies according to case law. Moreover, a content can be notified as unlawful taken in isolation while, in a more general context, it will take on a completely different meaning, undeniably legal and which is a matter of freedom of expression. The Court of Cassation thus had the opportunity to declare legal in the light of the concept of a debate in the general interest a content which was manifestly unlawful. On the other hand, the article gives platforms the power to police morals, whereas it is not their role but that of the judge. Freedom of expression cannot be restricted by private operators whose experience shows that their appreciation of illegal content is variable in geometry. This article therefore seems unbalanced to me: the risks of disproportionate interference with freedom of expression are real and it will not be effective in combating hate online content.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u202	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u203	It's funny: since the beginning of the debate, I haven't heard our colleagues exclaim "I'm Charlie"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u204	Here you go, you said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u205	What a bad taste!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u206	Your bill, the rapporteur, aims at "combating hate on the Internet". On this title alone, there could be consensus: which MP can refuse to fight the spread of hate speech on the Internet or, worse, encourage them? If we can therefore agree on the fact that the Internet, via social networks, has sometimes become a real waste for Internet users hidden behind a screen, a receptacle of insulting and criminally reprehensible words, the content of the bill worries us. We are all here, like many French, users of social networks, a real tool for communicating public speech, while at the same time perceiving both utility and limitations. However, as my colleagues and I had denounced during the debate on the antifake news bill, this new text is in line with the same liberticide logic, entrusting police power to private operators while this prerogative should be the responsibility of the public authorities. There is a confusion of genders and a risk of slipping or even obvious censorship. Moreover, if the fight against the various hatreds – racist, anti-Semitic, homophobic or sexist – is an objective that we share, you have stalemated on an hatred that gangrenees the internet, but also on many areas of non-France: it is of course the hatred emanating from Islamist fundamentalists and anti-white racism. Far from the idea of refusing to conduct this essential and necessary fight for our national cohesion; What we refuse is that, in the name of a legitimate criminalisation of abuses on the Internet, freedom of political expression is threatened. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u207	You can see who's bothering her!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u208	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u209	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u210	Madam rapporteur, I will not accuse you of wanting to censor you. Your work and the sincerity that animates you plead in your favor. However, I cannot help but convey to you here my fears: indeed, how many mistakes have been made in the name of the noblest principles? The examination of Article 1er in committee showed that the extension of the scope of the infringement had no limits, and for reasons. But the scope proposed here is so broad that the representatives of the platforms, who know that the example they will demonstrate in this area depends in part on their future, express great concern about their ability, within such a short period of time, to decide what is or does not fall under either of these incriminations. Are you not afraid, Madam rapporteur, of a form of automatic censorship? Is it not dangerous to entrust private operators with a power that should fall under the jurisdiction of the judge? Is it not worrying that now a significant part of the public debate will take place under the close supervision of foreign platforms? No one here disputes, you will understand, the need to fight hatred on the Internet and to better defend the victims; But are you convinced that the legislative path is the most appropriate for this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u211	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u212	I would like to welcome the addition to the list of contents that may be criminalized under this article, in committee, of those "inducing the commission of acts of terrorism, apologies for such acts or an attack on the dignity of the human person". This provision, which I also supported, enables our Assembly to respond to the call of Christchurch, which was made by New Zealand and France, and thus to better combat terrorism and the spread of the deadly ideologies underlying it. The list can still be supplemented, in particular by a reference to Article 226-1 of the Criminal Code, which punishes offences against the privacy of others: I have tabled an amendment to this effect. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur and Mr. Frédéric Reiss applaud]] It was necessary to introduce this withdrawal obligation in order to complete the legislative framework for ensuring the quality of the Internet. In recent years, we have seen how essential it is to give a framework to the Internet for this technology to remain virtuous. It is therefore important to fight effectively against content that violates our laws and principles; the new possibility offered by the text is therefore a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u213	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u214	I understand some of our colleagues' questions about the risks of violating freedom of expression. But I do not think that these will materialise: in this area, we are looking for a balance that we will strive to find in our debates. The work of Laetitia Avia, which I greet, certainly brings us closer to it, even if we may never be able to reach it so hard the company is. Freedom of expression does not allow everything. Today, in the ruthless world of the Internet, there are also people whose freedom of expression is undermined, men and women who do not dare to speak out on social networks because they are afraid of being attacked, of receiving a flood of insults: I think especially of children, young users who do not yet have all the necessary keys and are, in my view, the most threatened. That is why I will be defending an amendment to extend the scheme to include moral harassment and also harassment in schools. All the good provisions that we will adopt in this text will be of no use if we do not carry out real awareness-raising and education work. The Internet is a public space; Can we design a public space where we could say anything, on the street for example? I will no doubt come back to this, but I already wanted to submit these elements of reflection to our friends in La France, who have raised relevant questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u215	You're too good, Mr. Balanant...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u216	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u217	"At first, they were insults like "boiler", "bitch", "husband", "whore", insults that I now feel so sweet. It was all day long, without any pause, on every social network. [...] I answered each one of them, and reported every one of the false accounts that had been created to insult me, but after two months I gave up because it only made things worse. [Then c] e were no longer mere insults: they were photomontages that they threatened to publish. At the end, they were about fifty harassing me every day. It lasted eight months, until [my friend] committed suicide. » These words are those of Lucie, a 12-year-old girl. This is one of the testimonies, among hundreds of others, of what is happening today on the famous social networks, on the Internet. And, like all of them, he is unbearable. The purpose of the bill before us is for these tragedies to cease, for finally what is intolerable in material life to be so much so in virtual social life – I agree with my colleague Balanant on this point. Sometimes – often, in the younger ones – one prolongs the other; We can't deny it. It was therefore necessary to act very quickly with a focus on efficiency. I thank our rapporteur, Laetitia Avia, very warmly for charting the way. If Article 1 is intended to force the withdrawal of hate speech within 24 hours, it is good to respond effectively to dramatic situations. Let's not fool ourselves: we can scream at amalgam, at confusion, but the phenomenon is real; Thousands of young people, thousands of people are living in this situation; It's no longer tolerable. We can be proud to act responsibly against hate speech, harassment, incitement to terrorism and its apology, attacks on the dignity of the human person, discrimination against a person or group of persons on the grounds of origin, alleged race, religion, ethnicity, nation, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Ms. Géraldine Bannier also applauds]] In this respect, coherence is global: all the rights that we are going to protect are also enshrined in the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This new text will finally make it possible to devote effective respect for otherness in the digital space.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u218	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u219	During this debate, I will speak in my personal capacity: I do not fully share the view expressed by my group, MODEM, on this text, in particular its Article 1. What the law prohibits in public space must also be on the internet; There is no debate on this point. On the other hand, I consider that this article is not reaching its target. That will be the subject of my amendments. Indeed, why, in the fight against hatred on the Internet, address only certain operators, those who exceed a certain threshold of activity? What is the legitimacy of such a threshold? How to establish and implement it? If behaviour is reprehensible on a platform, it must be reprehensible on everyone and punished equally – I will defend an amendment to that effect. I agree with the arguments that have been put forward by several of my colleagues since the beginning of the debate: we may doubt the ability of the platforms to moderate words fairly. We are standing there on the famous ridge line that you mentioned earlier, Secretary of State. Platforms could set up a police force for morals. We have had recent examples. That's how a few days ago, in Nantes, a student community media outlet was removed from its Facebook page because of a nude. It was simply a video of a university play, in which one of the actresses dressed in part and let her chest appear. On the other hand, in its general conditions of use – or what is called community standards – the same operator indicates that Internet users should not publish images showing, among other things, "a visible anus and/or a close-up on fully exposed buttocks, unless it is a montage on a public personality". This is clearly due to the need for this operator to do buzz. Aren't we here on a ridge line? For my part, I see a real problem. The bill, particularly in its Article 1, does not achieve the stated purpose. We'll have to do something about it. In this sense, I will resubmit proposals on interoperability in other articles. In order to achieve our objective, we will have to find a path other than the one that is inoperative, which appears in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u220	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u221	The vast majority of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes this Article 1, as well as Articles 1a and 1b. Considerable additions are, in fact, made to the law for confidence in the digital economy. They will make it possible to better combat a scourge inherent in the technological innovation that is the Internet, which has been insufficiently anticipated. It would have been difficult to embrace the entire field of hate content in this text, as the imagination of hate diffusers is fruitful. Of course, the content targeted by public authorities – teachers, law enforcement officials or elected officials – is not covered here. However, these public authorities are protected by other criminal mechanisms, I was told in committee. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support the progress made in these articles, which we urgently need to avoid further drama.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u222	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u223	Section 1 provides answers to questions raised by some about the limits to be set to this bill. This text, it is true, does not create any new incrimination in terms of expression. Article 1 merely repeats a number of existing texts – the Act of 1881, the Act against Homophobia, etc. –, which introduce limits to freedom of expression. Today, these texts are poorly applied in the context of the Internet.From now on, an administrative procedure will clarify this aspect. This will not prevent the judge, the ultimate decision-maker, from being seized and punishing possible breaches of our fundamental principles. How can we define what is manifestly unlawful? To illustrate this question, I will give you an example. In his Philosophical Dictionary, our famous Voltaire, known for his tolerance, delivered his vision of the Jews in the following terms: "You will find in them only an ignorant and barbaric people, who have long joined the most sordid avarice with the most detestable superstition and the most invincible hatred for all peoples who tolerate them and enrich them. But they must not be burned. Today, this text seems to us to be manifestly illegal. It could not be published in any newspaper, whatsoever. Why, then, can this type of text appear on the Internet? Writings that appear online must be in accordance with the legislation that applies in everyday life, to writings and to the press. We can't do anything else. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As for grey areas, it will be up to the courts to decide on them. Moreover, Article 3 of the draft law expressly details the judicial remedies which the parties have the opportunity to bring.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u224	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u225	In a context where acts of violence and harassment, hidden behind the anonymity of a screen, the legislator must react. At 70%, the French say they have already been the target of abject messages on the Internet. Every year, 700000 students suffer harassment, which leads some to feed suicidal thoughts or even to act. With strong and operational measures, the proposed text has a dual objective. First of all, it is a matter of reaffirming that freedom of expression – to which we are all very attached – is not without limits in our law, and that the Internet is not an area of lawlessness. The next step is to put an end to the quasi-impunity of criminals in the virtual world. This Article 1e r enshrines the principle of the responsibility of platform operators – it is its singularity. They, after a report by a person who is the victim of messages with hateful, discriminating or violating dignity, will have 24 hours to stop the manifestly illegal disorder. The platforms in question may be penalized financially, but may also be criminally liable if the CSA's recommendations or the request for withdrawal are not implemented. In case of opposition between the various actors on the reprehensible nature of the content, the judge – and always the judge – appreciates the possible illegality. This intervention by the judge guarantees the balance between freedom of expression and its limits. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] By establishing a principle of the responsibility of operators, and by imposing on them an obligation of result, Laetitia Avia's bill of law, and in particular its article 1, feeds the very first responses that our modern societies are trying to bring to these new forms of delinquency. Let us even note that the debates in this Chamber in the French Parliament will be closely monitored by many countries which are also seeking effective legal tools to combat hate on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u226	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u227	Without being exhaustive, I would like to point out a few topics that question us or seem problematic in the text that is proposed. First of all, the notion of "obviously unlawful" opens a fairly broad field of interpretation. Although a list of offences refers to legislation, it is closed. However, as the press law lawyer Christophe Bigot wrote in a recent article, case law continues to evolve and adapt in this area, particularly with regard to racial hatred. How can we incorporate such evolving case law into a closed list, especially since the text contains a blurred interpretation of the "obviously unlawful" character? Second, in the face of a unilateral risk of punishment, platforms will be tempted to protect themselves very widely, and consequently to withdraw or report statements that reflect an extensive view of the illegality. We will therefore propose a supplementary amendment aimed at sanctioning both illegal statements and excessive censorship. The examples cited by our colleagues clearly show that the perception of illegality can take on wide proportions in the cultural field as well as in the context of the right to freedom of expression or to conduct disputing policies. Finally, the main issue is not whether or not to regulate the Internet, but who is allowed to do so and who has the legitimacy. Can we accept that the platforms themselves make it a market, far from the general interest and the public interest? In a republic, does not this role rest with the law and the judge?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u228	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u229	I agree with this text, provided that it denounces all forms of hatred. However, a new form of hatred and violence has recently emerged. It targets farmers, butchers and even crèmeurs. It stigmatizes farmers and slaughterhouse workers. It denounces honest workers, whom society has a duty to protect. Some associations are very active, such as L214 or DxE, meaning "direct action" – it's not quite Direct Action, but it looks like it! The aim here is to prevent digital giants from relaying, amplifying and ultimately inciting such acts. The actions involved can be very serious. I am thinking in particular of a slaughterhouse that burned in the Ain. I am also thinking of a traumatic event that took place in the Côtes-d'Armor department: members of the DxE association entered a farm at night, without permission, filmed images and relayed them on various sites, accompanied by totally unfounded comments and very serious words such as "torture", "killing" or "concentration". In doing so, this association has caused health risks. I would add that this speech took place in the presence of one of our colleagues, Mr Lachaud. So he broke into a Côtes-d'Armor breeder at night, without permission. I deplore this act. More seriously, the President of the Assembly felt that he could not afford to punish this colleague. I hope, Madam Keeper of the Seals – and I have appreciated the circular that you have circulated to the prosecutor's office – that all prosecutions will be brought diligently against those who have entered this breeding, and that under no circumstances will the perpetrators of this act be able to benefit from any amnesty, whether they are Members of Parliament or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u230	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u231	I share Marc Le Fur's strong plea, even though I am not sure that he is entirely within the scope of the matter before us. Article 1 sets out a framework; It's all there. This is an opportunity to recall how important it is to look after the words we use. So we don't fight hatred. Hate is an intimate, personal feeling. I think what I want about whom I want. However, I do not have the right to express it. Indeed, it is against the expression of hatred and not against hatred itself that one can fight. It is the act, and he alone, that we must condemn. Let us be careful not to suggest that the legislator interferes with consciences to regulate other passions, such as anger or love. It was important to remind him. Furthermore, Article 1 aims to apply the provisions of this text to operators exceeding a threshold of up to 2 million monthly connections. We can ask ourselves about this threshold of activity applied to platforms. This is the one by which self-regulation by platforms is enacted. Above all, it raises an important question as to the material capacity to handle the reported content. Even before a text was voted on, the platforms seized this issue. This is done by subcontractors who work under extremely worrying social conditions. We cannot disinterest ourselves in this aspect. Above all, this Article 1 is the one by which we could be tempted to sanction all the comments and go far beyond those which are the subject of racial, sexist or other insults. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to this risk of drift. What is manifestly unlawful is extremely complex to define; and what is manifestly unlawful cannot be anything that bothers us. If we slide on this soapy slope, we would have a good chance of hitting freedom of expression. To quote Montesquieu, "the best is the mortal enemy of good". This adage has never been as well applied as it was to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u232	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u233	Before dealing with the discussion on Article 1, and in addition to my speech in general discussion, I would like to extend the reflection which has been initiated by our colleague Hervé Saulignac. Are hate speech sources of profit for Facebook? Algorithms would thus promote the sale of Nazi objects to anti-Semitic users. If that fact were proven, it would be unacceptable. Dan Shefet, President of AAID, an association that aims to empower Internet actors, interviewed Facebook's vice-president. Dan Shefet, with whom I exchanged e-mails, regrets that this social network did not respond within the agreed deadlines. Is there an eel under rock? We wish to adopt provisions to combat effectively and transparently the publication of hate messages on the Internet. We need to empower platforms and users. Many colleagues have referred to these algorithms, which must remain aid to decision-making and not become the instruments of unrecommended trade. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let's hope it's just a rumor. However, let us keep this fact in mind when considering this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u234	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u235	Article 1 of this text is very important in that it concerns the sanction of the dissemination of hate content on the Internet. I raised the issue of the right to be forgotten in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Once the hateful content is identified, the author spotted, the sanction taken, the publication removed, how to ensure that its dissemination does not persist by other means since, alas, any content broadcast on the internet leaves a trace if not indelible, at least very difficult to make disappear. We need to think about it, because the victims can only find peace once any trace has been erased. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would also like to stress the importance of Marc Le Fur's amendment, of which I am a co-signatory, which aims to fight against the publication by some so-called defenders of the animal cause, of hate speech which seriously harms farmers, our agriculture and the entire French agri-food sector. Unfortunately, too often they are not considered hateful content. That is why, in our view, this forthcoming amendment is of paramount importance in that it tends to put an end to certain harmful practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u236	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u237	This debate is old, not like the world, but as the internet and the development it has experienced in recent years. The law for confidence in the digital economy had set milestones which, among other things, provide us with tools for intervention, the sources of which are found in the law of 6 January 1978 on computer science, files and freedoms, amended since then. We are in this state of mind, less concerned about protecting data than freedom of expression, committed to maintaining the balance between the necessary evolution of society and the maintenance of certain prohibitions, despite the anonymity that allows Internet. Because we have witnessed, in recent years and especially in recent months, a surge of hate speech on social networks, targeting an increasing audience, to the agricultural world, everyone understands that we must grasp the problem with arms-to-body. This bill is an interesting attempt even if it is not entirely satisfactory. Moreover, I do not dispute the goodwill of one or the other, in particular of our rapporteur, whose work I welcome. The balance is difficult to find because of the principle of freedom of expression and opinion, enshrined in articles 10 and 11 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen, which set limits to the principle of freedom of expression and opinion, not to disturb public order established by law and not to contravene the law. Already, in these revolutionary times, a framework had been planned. Let us not stifle the thought or the dissemination of opinion. Let us not confuse crime with opinion, even if it is contradictory, inconvenient or even injuring. Mr. Latomb is right. Let us be careful about these balances. Today, we cannot stand by and continue to lament. We need to act, and that is the basis for an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u238	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u239	To listen to some, we might believe that it is possible, on the Internet, for example via Facebook, to apologies for terrorism or crimes. It's not true: it's impossible. Sanctions exist and the perpetrators will be prosecuted. Similarly, it is not true that anti-Semitic or racist statements can be published with impunity on the Internet. You want to give the impression that this text will make us go from night to day, but the subject is different: you plan, in this article 1, to grant regulatory power to platforms. Let us resume the debate, if you will, because areas of shadow remain. Mrs Pau Langevin referred to the texts of Voltaire. A platform, based abroad, may decide, based on keywords and algorithms, that a Voltaire text can no longer be published. That would be regrettable, but it was a terrible text. Think of the black code, this historical document! Let us go even further by recalling this parliamentary debate which was held here in 1885, during which Jules Ferry, referring to the beginnings of colonization, declared that, belonging to a higher race, we had duties towards the lower races. It was, moreover, an exciting parliamentary debate that gave rise to a magnificent response from Clemenceau, but the remarks made were indeed hateful. Who will decide tomorrow on the character of such a speech? Algorithms and keywords? These decisions must be made by the human being. It is up to the justice system to rule on texts that, out of context, can have terrible meaning. I feel all the more at ease to reason as I opposed the reissue of Louis-Ferdinand Céline's anti-Semitic texts by a large house. Some texts must remain confidential. Whether one can still find them in the booksellers, that is, because there is no question of prohibiting them, but of making the re-edition of Mein Kampf or some of Céline's works editorial blows, there is a step not to be taken, because we must not accept that publishers make money with ignoble texts. However, these documents are historical. I understand each other's arguments and it is difficult to form an opinion. Once again, it is only for the judge to make a reasoned decision. We come back to the preliminary comments, Madam rapporteur: we are in a blurred area and we will find it very difficult to assess the consequences of this mechanism, especially if decisions are taken by operators based abroad, people who do not have a perfect command of our language and who will have to rely on algorithms, but on which we do not yet know what control we can exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u240	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u241	"If the position and behaviour of major digital players raises the question of preserving our sovereignty, it is contradictory to weaken it by giving platforms prerogatives specific to the field of law and justice. Only the decision of justice, resulting from the power of the democratically instituted State, is acceptable when it comes to censoring a statement, an act "particularly radical" as the Council of State describes it in its opinion. The protection of our fundamental rights is based on the balance of democratic powers. "In terms of online content regulation, as elsewhere, the role of justice must be preserved. The judge must be at the heart of both the procedure for the qualification of the contents and the decision to withdraw or block them. The assessment of the illegal nature of hate content cannot be entrusted to platform operators alone, at the risk of inducing privatisation of judicial functions and undermining democratic safeguards for our citizens. We caution against circumventing the powers of the judicial authorities for the benefit of the independent administrative authorities. We recommend strengthening the role of the judicial judge, the guardian of fundamental freedoms, at all levels of the fight against illegal content and strengthening the means of action of the justice system. Platform operators must have the opportunity to question the judge in case of doubt as to the "obviously unlawful" nature of a content. » This text is not mine, it is from the League of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u242	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u243	Article 1 of the proposed law requires operators to withdraw or make inaccessible, within a maximum of 24 hours after notification, i.e. after notification, any content clearly involving incitement to hatred or discrimination on grounds of race, religion, sex, sexual orientation or disability. Let us remember that this 24-hour delay is realistic and will make this text operational. Therefore, this bill tends to entrust the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel with a task of administrative regulation of these large platforms in the fight against such content. It is proposed to allow this regulator to pronounce against an operator who has failed to comply with its obligation to withdraw within 24 hours, with a financial penalty of up to 4% of its global annual turnover. As such, it should be borne in mind that this sanction is not intended to be applied. I hope that the platforms will have dedicated sufficient resources to create the conditions necessary for the success of this mechanism without the need to activate a sanction. It is in fact the meaning of this bill that we must guarantee in advance the effectiveness of the removal of hate content so that they remain online for as little time as possible, because, at every second of their presence, at every consultation, they make victims. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is high time to put an end to the proliferation of hatred on social networks. That is why I fully support the work of our rapporteur, Mrs Laetitia Avia, and I will vote in favour of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u244	Mrs. Florence Granjus has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u245	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text, by posing the debate, is a first step to combat the extent of hatred on the Internet, but it is a great step to awaken the consciousness of anonymous Internet users and protect the victims. I will vote in favour of this article and thank Mrs Laetitia Avia for having the courage to carry this text and the debates that surround it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u246	I should like to inform you that, at the request of the Government, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will consider as a matter of priority, after the amendments to the additional Rule after Rule 1, Amendments Nos 302 and 88. We come to the amendments. I have before me three deletion amendments, Nos 87, 111 and 142. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u247	This amendment tends to delete the article, because, as we have already explained, this text ignores the objective it sets itself and seriously undermines the principle of freedom of expression. Furthermore, Mr Corbière is right: contrary to what many of our colleagues have implied, the Internet space is already regulated by law. The law already allows the justice system to intervene quickly, even on the Internet. Article 50-1 of the Act of 1881 provides for a specific injunction against the dissemination of hate speech on the grounds of insult to a person or a group of persons because of their origin, their belonging or not to an ethnic group, etc. Article 6(1) of the Law of 21 June 2004 on Trust in the Digital Economy allows the judicial authority to "prescribe on summary notice or on request... any measures which prevent damage or cause to cease damage caused by the content of a communication service to the online public". In short, this debate existed long before the beginning of this legislature, and the question of limits also arose. Why aren't these devices more effective? We return, as always, to the problem of the means granted to justice. Members have received an open letter signed by the President of the Internet Society France, the President of the National Bar Council, the President of the Digital Renaissance, the General Delegate of the New Generation Internet Foundation, the Executive Director of the Internet without Borders, the President of the League of Human Rights and the Presidency of the National Digital Council, to alert them to the problems posed by the drafting of Article 1, which we ask for the deletion of, because it calls for a reflection other than that which you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u248	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u249	No one wants the Internet to become a non-right space where the lowest instincts of humanity would be expressed without hindrance and without sanction. But neither can we accept to leave the exercise of judicial power in the hands of private operators, the vast majority of whom are American. However, this is provided for in Article 1 of this bill defended by Mrs Laetitia Avia, an article which transfers responsibility for combating cybercrime to private platforms. Judicial judges, as guarantors of public freedoms, are de facto dispossessed of their fundamental power of control. Private operators, under the threat of particularly heavy financial sanctions – 4% of their global turnover – will be forced to zealate and censor a priori the publications they would consider questionable, without prior control of the judge. It is also to be feared that particularly well-organised influence groups will set up mass reporting campaigns on Internet platforms with the aim of censoring statements that they consider to be contrary to their beliefs. The most powerful lobbies would, in fact, become the new gendarmes of good thinking on the Internet. We therefore propose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u250	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u251	With this article, the big internet platforms will become censors: at the slightest request, they will have to determine whether a particular publication represents hate speech, and this within a particularly short time: twenty-four hours after notification by one or more users. You are transferring the exercise of justice to these new censors: do you seriously believe that they will be good judges? By privatizing part of our justice, you expose us to a serious danger, especially when these new judges are foreign companies. How to resolve very delicate cases? Take the example of marriage for all or medically assisted procreation. For some, being against the LDC is homophobic; For others, this is a legitimate societal debate. However, large platforms are being asked to decide. These practical cases show us that, despite the best intentions, removing hate on the internet is much more complicated than what you want us to believe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u252	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u253	Moreover, these major platforms will have no interest in seeking justice. A sword of Damocles will be suspended above their heads: if they do not withdraw the content in dispute within 24 hours, they will be subject to a financial penalty from the CSA to the tune of 4% of their worldwide turnover. As I have already said in the general discussion, this means for Facebook 2 to 3 billion dollars. Suffice it to say that these platforms will have no interest in verifying that these are hate speech. This article with liberticide tendencies must therefore, in my view, be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u255	I will try to respond here to comments made by both the speakers in the general discussion and those on the article and the advocates of the deletion amendments, when those comments relate to Article 1. For the sake of clarity, I will respond to others as we discuss them. First of all, I would like to point out that, as the Secretary of State has pointed out, we are dealing with a sensitive subject. No state in the world has yet found a solution. Nevertheless, as Mrs Georges-Pau Langevin said a few moments ago, we cannot stand by and find solutions. The ones I propose in Article 1 are balanced; This is partly due to the fact that they have been carefully worked with the Council of State. The wording that I propose for section 1 is the result of a goldsmith's work that allows us to operate within a framework that is both precise and effective: that of violations of human dignity as referred to in section 6 I of the Act. For a number of infringements, platforms are already subject to a duty of cooperation. I would like to remind you that we are talking about offences here; Or who says offense says judge. We are creating a new offence here, which will be punished under the criminal rules applicable under the NCA. I have identified three main concerns among your interventions. First, I understand that we would have the objective of transferring the powers of the judge to the platforms. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to re-read article 6 of the 2004 ECL, which calls on the platforms to remove illegal content in a timely manner. I also invite you to refer to the decision of the Constitutional Council of 10 June 2004, which states that this withdrawal affects "obviously" illegal content. It was not I who created this notion of "obviously unlawful content": it is the rule of law. However, today we do not have any means of control. I heard Mr Corbière say that this text would reduce public control. At the moment, however, we do not know what the platforms are doing: neither how they remove the content nor what they consider to be manifestly illegal. We have no right to look. Consider this bill as a whole: Article 1, combined with all the obligations of means to ensure transparency of information, will enable the monitoring of how platforms implement their decisions in a relatively operational manner. Caroline Abadie said earlier: this bill deals only with manifestly illegal content. Indeed, we are dealing here only with what is clear and clear. Frédérique Dumas lamented that this represents only 80 to 85% of cases: but it's already huge! Ensuring that manifestly illegal content is no longer present on these platforms will be a significant step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u256	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u257	There are grey contents; they are not covered by this bill. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned earlier that he would establish several procedures that would enable us to move forward on this issue. However, they are not the subject of our parliamentary debate: the Council of State does not allow us to legislate on these grey content, but only on what is clearly illegal. The third concern that you have put forward, and to which I fully subscribe, is the risk of over-censorship. We know him thanks to the German experience which served as a starting point for our work – work to which Mr. Gil Taieb and Karim Amellal. The German law could, in fact, generate an overcensorship. To avoid this overcensorship, I propose several measures, some of which will be discussed later in this session. Contractual liability already allows us to incur liability for a platform that would unwarrantedly withdraw content under its general terms of use. We must not forget this: the judge can intervene when the discriminatory withdrawal of these contents constitutes a violation of the law. On the other hand, I will now propose an amendment that will oblige the platforms to implement all the means necessary to prevent unjustified withdrawals. I will also propose an amendment to make the rules of moderation more transparent. We have already decided in committee that the APF will assess the compliance of the platform's behaviour. This applies to both positive and negative, for insufficient withdrawals and excessive withdrawals. This more transparent framework, which gives us the right to look at platform processes, ensures that sufficient resources will be devoted to avoiding unjustified withdrawals. In cases of abuse of rights, we will be able to impose sanctions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That's the framework I'm offering you. I hear that it is considered insufficient; I can't hear anyone saying he's been set up on the run. I am therefore against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u258	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u259	I would simply like to add the words of the rapporteur, who has summarized the subject well. There is indeed complementarity between Article 1 and the obligation of means. Article 1 deals with the judicial framework. On this point, I would like to reply to Emmanuelle Ménard: the penalty of 4% of turnover is unrelated to the provisions of Article 1. You may have misread the law: this sanction applies, not to content, but to non-compliance with the obligation to put in place appropriate moderation. The level of such moderation shall be verified by the regulator. It is out of the question that the CSA individually controls the published content. I will take another example than that of my opening remarks. The obligation of universal coverage of the territory by certain operators is verified by ARCEP – the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications and Posts – to which the alerts go back. If the number of such alerts is abnormal, ARCEP shall carry out an on-site verification and shall notify the operator; If it does not comply with the law, the penalty may be severe. Nevertheless, ARCEP does not verify that the obligation to cover is respected in every house in France! This is a systemic obligation. It is on this obligation that the 4% penalty – the sword of Damocles you are talking about – carries, not on the content on a case-by-case basis. My second point will also respond to some of the interventions in the general discussion, in particular those of Alexis Corbière and Frédérique Dumas. What is the current situation? Today, as Laetitia Avia said, platforms withdraw content – at their convenience. So we're not going to force the platforms to withdraw content: they're already doing it. We will simply force them to exercise this supervision at the right level by checking their action. This obligation applies in both directions: we will verify that this withdrawal is effective, but also that it is not excessive. It is therefore a matter of controlling what already exists. If we do nothing, we will remain within the framework of the general conditions of use. When I speak of control, I include that of algorithms, which have been mentioned by some Members, Philippe Latomb among others. The CSA will need to have a technical or even technological instrument capable of testing and certifying certain algorithms. It is a complicated task that will require cultural change and additional resources, but it is a question of survival for the State. This control does not only apply to the processing of content: if, tomorrow, the recruitment of certain companies is based on algorithms, which will be the case, the State will have to be able to guarantee to the citizen the absence of gender bias and racial discrimination. The state will therefore have to develop skills, both for online hate and for other subjects. This is the purpose of the bill: to give obligations of result and to monitor them. The question of the scope of sanctions was addressed in different ways by Mr Meyer Habib and by President Le Fur. The seal keeper will probably come back tonight. The Government is committed to establishing a clear and legally secure definition of offences, which primarily targets incitement to hatred and aggravated public insults. We wish to remain within the existing legal framework by referring to offences targeted by the NCL. The list of offences will be discussed at a later stage; For our part, we do not see any obstacle as long as it remains within the scope of the offences targeted by the NCA. I am afraid that, with regard to attacks on farmers or butchers, such as anti-Zionism, we are going beyond that list. I would also like to make it clear that, if we want to remain in accordance with European Union law, we need to take up the definition of violations of human dignity given by the CJEU. The two cases I have mentioned are not part of them; Some of the proposals that will be made during the discussion of the articles also go beyond this framework. In many cases, the adoption of these amendments would undermine the legal value of the text, which is not desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u260	[[Laughs]] I don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u261	We have to follow!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u262	I repeat: in order for the text to be in accordance with European Union law, it must respect the criteria of the ECJ for the violation of human dignity. Injuries and insults are hate speech that fall under the law. When it comes to aggressive statements, held within reasonable limits,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u263	It's hate speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u264	Insults or threats of death fall de facto under the law. But, Mr. Le Fur, if people express their hatred of farmers in non-injurious terms,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u265	"Who express their hatred in non-injurious terms": I do not understand the meaning of your remarks, Secretary of State. Now, "What is well understood is clearly stated, and words to say so are readily heard. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u266	You can say, "I hate farmers. I disagree with such an assertion, but the CJEU does not consider it an infringement of human dignity. I can't help it: it is European law. We are obliged to respect a number of legal criteria in order to ensure the legal soundness of the text. Mr Latomb referred to the issue of the threshold: the introduction of thresholds is based on a principle of reality and an innovation principle. Respect for the principle of reality leads us to take a first step by dealing with the largest social networks, on which most French people go. Theoretically, you are right: what is illegal on a large social network is also illegal on a small platform. However, we must be effective in the weeks and months ahead. However, according to the principle of reality, the APF cannot control all the actors – this concerns the obligation of means. We choose – this is only a first step, I repeat – to deal first with the major platforms – Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. If we can solve the problems posed by the hateful content that appears on these major platforms, where 99% of the French go, I would be very happy. The question will not have been fully answered, but an important step will have been taken. With regard to the principle of innovation, I make the link between the obligation of resources and the supervision that accompanies it: the obligations of the platforms will be very heavy. Facebook, as I said, employs several tens of thousands of moderators. This is necessary, but the market may be locked: indeed, with such strong bonds, no new platform will be able to enter it. Closing it is therefore tantamount to considering that we should be content with the existing networks. On the contrary, I believe that we must allow competition and the emergence of new platforms that will, I hope, be more privacy-friendly and more attentive to the spread of hatred on the Internet. Now, if you impose ab initio on them a very high systemic moderation, then you will prevent them from emerging. Mr.Latombe, you also asked me about the nudity on Facebook: no one has to go on Facebook. It is a private enterprise, which has the right to define, in the name of freedom to undertake, its own general conditions of use, provided that they are not discriminatory – for example, prohibiting nudes of particular origin. Again, you don't have to go on Facebook. I therefore find it difficult to legislate on the subject. I would like to correct Mr Corbière's remarks: unfortunately, lucidity leads to the assertion that if you insult, insult or threaten someone with death on the Internet, you will benefit from quasi-impunity. Of course, the law forbids you and makes you liable to punishment; In fact, the number of trials is infinitesimal in view of the number of insults and death threats that spread over the Internet. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I have finally noted the love cry of the parliamentarians of the National Gathering for Justice: in this case, Marine Le Pen must not hesitate to surrender to judicial summonses. It would be a first proof of love. Opinion against the amendments to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u267	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u268	I would like to go back to the distinction you made, Madam rapporteur, between grey content and manifestly illegal content. Platforms will receive alerts from individuals or associations, no matter what. However, who will decide that the alerts made by these natural or legal persons relate to manifestly illegal content, while others may find that such content falls within the grey zone? The platform, since it will have the obligation to delete illegal content. It is clear, however, that it will censor the content that will be at the margin in order not to take the risk of a financial sanction. The use of justice, with regard to grey content, will therefore prove to be much more problematic than you have said: in fact, it is impossible to draw a precise line between the manifestly illegal content and the content within the grey zone. The platform will obviously choose by ease, and I understand it, to censor the point. That is why Article 1e r seems to me to infringe on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u269	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u270	It is good that the rapporteur and the Secretary of State have acknowledged that this bill does not invent anything. I recalled this following some speeches: to believe them, before this text, there was no mechanism. So we had to go very quickly to put an end to what is happening on the Internet. However, there are already mechanisms. This bill therefore does not create injunctions for platforms: it strengthens their power, and that is where it hurts. It is not by following this path that we will better resolve the problems identified. Indeed, it is not the lack of power of platforms, nor the number of moderators, that are at issue today: it is the Internet ecosystem, because, even with several tens of thousands of additional moderators, moderation would remain impossible. Of course, we are not in favour of inaction: the debate is not about whether or not to give up. It's about the effectiveness of the control devices you're proposing. But we say, like internet professionals, like scientists and researchers working on these issues, like law professionals, that it is not by giving more power to the platforms that you will solve the problems. Other proposals, including ours, concern the very nature of the Internet economy. Why is it on social networks that the problems that already exist are so intensely concentrated? And why is it so difficult to apprehend them outside the Internet? Mr Secretary of State, you have pointed out that justice is rarely done when a person is threatened with death on the Internet: you have simply failed to specify that it is already difficult to obtain justice outside the Internet. One of the achievements of the PayeTaPlaint on the Internet movement was to reveal how difficult it is to even walk through the door of a police station. All the movements that have used it on social networks to express their rejection of all discrimination and hatred have targeted the real lack of police and justice resources. However, Article 1e r does not answer this question: it cannot therefore go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u271	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u272	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for not trying to escape the debate: you have answered me and I am grateful to you. I don't blame opinions. Vegetarianism can be advocated, certain types of livestock can be refused, publicly said and peacefully demonstrated: this is not the subject. What I denounce are violent acts, consisting of entering places assimilated to homes, individuals, filming and disseminating the images we have filmed, while mixing live images and others, which have no connection whatsoever, because these people are communication professionals. In your reply, you referred to a 2004 text: however, in 2004 there were no such attacks, farmers and butchers were not subjected to them. They are a growing phenomenon, to which we must respond. It has its full place in this text, especially since there are links of objective complexity between these associations and digital giants, especially Facebook – I will come back to that when I defend the amendment that I tabled on the subject. Let us therefore not refer to the year 2004: no one at the time could have thought of such a phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u273	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u274	It is simply an amendment of legal precision and coordination, between the legal obligations for trust in the digital economy and this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u275	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u276	Unfavorable. This reference should be retained to the sections of the NCA, as the new provisions fall within their scope without being derogatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u277	I have before me two amendments, Nos 132 and 123, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Latombe to support Amendment No. 132.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u278	It is intended to include in the scope of Article 1e r these new forms of incitement to hatred, which are, for example, online vats accompanied by manifestly illegal content. We have very recent examples, even outside the pool that had been opened for the defense of a boxer in the context of the manifestations of the yellow vests. It is very difficult to remove pools that, having been opened online, are accompanied by manifestly illegal content. As you pointed out in your speech, in order to get to the end, we need to keep up with the evolutions: but online pools are a way to promote hatred. It is therefore appropriate to include in the article's scope online pools, search engines and online directories, even if you are already targeting them in another article. In this way, they will be explicitly targeted to strengthen the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u279	I call Mr Thomas Rudigoz to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u280	It follows the same logic as Mr. Latomb's. I have clarified the wording of the amendment that I defended in the Committee on Laws. The spectrum of operators likely to be affected by the scheme provided for in Article 1er should be expanded to include crowdfunding platforms, known as crowdfunding, or so-called "baskets". For example, in December last year, the PHAROS platform sued for incitement to commit a crime a prize prize whose object was the financing of a hit man to eliminate the President of the Republic. Without our proposed legislation, we could continue this kind of action and platforms. Nevertheless, the obligation to withdraw such content within 24 hours provided for in this text has a preventive aim. Crowdfunding platforms, or pools, are increasingly numerous and unfortunately increasingly used by extremist individuals or groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u282	I would first like to point out that Article 1 applies to search engines, since it refers to communications services active in the classification or referencing of content, which is the definition of search engines. As far as the scope of Article 1 is concerned, the original wording concerned only what is commonly referred to as social networks, i.e. platform operators whose function is to share public content. In our discussions with the Council of State, it was asked to extend the scope of the device to search engines, as their activities have, in the end, the same consequences as social networks for the exposure of content. That is why the scope of the text has been extended to them. I must be extremely strict on the scope of Article 1, whether it be operators or the subjects concerned, because the opinion of the Council of State is very clear on this matter: it is the validated field that is in line with European law. That is what makes the text operational and effective. I regret to express an unfavorable opinion on the extension of the scheme to crowdfunding platforms. However, if the twenty-four hour withdrawal is not possible, I would point out that the NBL and the provisions on prompt withdrawal, referred to several times this afternoon, apply. In addition, Article 6 provides for the simplification of procedures for obtaining blocking of a site. These procedures also apply to these sites. This will make it possible to remedy, perhaps not as quickly as you wish, the situations you refer to. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'd be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u284	I agree with the rapporteur. The text is unsuitable for crowdfunding platforms, which ask questions of a different nature. First, if these platforms include discussion forums that exceed the activity threshold that we will be discussing earlier, they will fall under the law. Secondly, Mr Latomb, to my great regret, the prize for Christophe Dettinger is immoral, but not illegal. It would be a mistake to consider that this pool should fall within the scope of this bill. It was withdrawn because Leechi considered it to be in breach of its general conditions of use. In fact, a procedure is under way to determine whether the Dettinger family should be compensated for the damage caused by the withdrawal of the pool. Unfortunately, we should not confuse immorality with illegality, particularly in the context of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u285	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u286	I hear your arguments on the pools, but it's a vector used to promote hatred. As Mr. Rudigoz said, there are calls to fund hired killers or illegal operations, for which prompt withdrawal is not enough. Why would the 24-hour withdrawal provision not apply to cash pools? I would add that the Council of State did not mention it, because it may not have thought about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u287	Yes! We went around the subjects!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u288	We need to be able to ask ourselves the question today. With regard to the distinction between immorality and illegality, it is up to the courts to decide. The challenge is to allow the judge to position himself on a number of issues. However, cash pools, which are mostly imported from foreign countries, are ways to promote hatred on the Internet, and indirectly on social networks. We're not just talking about the online forums of these crowdfunding platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u289	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-03-E1003.u290	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bill to combat hate on the Internet. The meeting is adjourned.
