ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law on the creation of a digital services tax and modification of the downward trajectory of corporate tax (No. 1737, 1838, 1800, 1819).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u3	We are looking at the bill on the taxation of digital giants. This text was a commitment of the President of the Republic and a priority of the presidential campaign. The commitment will be fulfilled and this priority will be translated into action. Why is taxation of digital giants a priority? Why has France been engaged in this fight for two years, without targeting any state, any nation in particular, but with a goal of justice and fiscal efficiency? It does so because we are facing an economic revolution to which we have so far made no tax response. This revolution is the revolution of the digital economy that creates value from data. Today, value is created in France thanks to French consumers and French data, but taxes are collected elsewhere, in Ireland or the United States in particular – when they are recovered. The United States tells us that it has increased its tax rate on these activities in recent months and that this would make it unnecessary for national taxation on digital activities; If it is true that they have increased their tax rates, France and the French public treasury do not collect any of these taxes on data produced in France. It is unacceptable to us that digital operators make considerable profits from our data, especially personal data, while their profits are much less taxed than those of our SMEs and TPEs. To make it simple: profits are in France but taxes are abroad. No one can accept it. It is unacceptable that this fiscal situation – where France is deprived of the benefit of the product of the value of French data – also leads to the emergence of digital giants who buy, one by one, all our startups and kill innovation in our country. The great question that arises, beyond this fiscal injustice, is clear: what regulation do we now want to subject the digital economy to? And digital taxation is only part of the answer to that question. On the other hand, it is the honour of France to be at the forefront on these issues. It is the honour of France to raise the issue of the regulation of the digital economy. It is the honour of France to have made the minimum taxation a priority at the G7 Finances that I chair – and I will have the opportunity, at the end of the week, to tell my partners in the same G7 that it is essential to introduce a minimum tax on companies to avoid this tax evasion through which profits are made in one place, then relocated to another to pay less taxes and to be subject to less taxes. That is also why we want to transform European competition law to adapt it to the technological and economic realities of the 21st century and to avoid the creation of monopolies that capture rents, data and prevent the emergence of new economic actors. That is why we are also moving forward at the national and international levels to tax digital giants. In view of this new global economic reality, I am tempted to respond to all those who argue that this fight could affect our national and European champions: but which national and European champions since, unfortunately, we have not been able, over the last ten years, to bring out these European or national technological champions, for lack of ambition but also because these data were captured by a small number of companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u5	Everyone who tells me that this fight could affect our national and European champions should therefore rather worry about the monopoly situation in which some digital giants find themselves, whose market valuation, I would remind you, is superior to the national wealth of many states. So let us not be wrong about fighting. The real fight is to restore tax efficiency, tax justice and renewed competition in a 21st century economy that cannot be built on tax evasion and the monopoly of a limited number of giants. To regulate the digital economy, I would like to stress from the outset that the right long-term solution will be a multilateral solution. I have no doubt about that. That is why, two years ago, we advanced to get a European agreement – and two years ago, I recall, France was alone: when, in June 2017, I proposed that we tax digital giants, there was no European state, at that time, to follow the French proposal; We have convinced Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain. While we were only five at the beginning to launch this initiative, in October 2017, seventeen European states supported us and, a few months ago, we were twenty-three out of twenty-seven states supporting this idea of digital taxation – and I deeply regret that only four European states were able to block a decision supported by, I insist, twenty-three states, on the basis of a solid proposal from the European Commission. We have drawn conclusions from this, such as the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, Austria and Poland. You don't want a European tax? Well, we're going to introduce a national tax to have the necessary leverage and require the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – OECD – to move faster towards digital taxation. Because it is within this multilateral framework that we will continue our efforts and I will never release my own until the OECD obtains effective international taxation of digital giants from its members. An agreement is possible. I will go even further: an agreement is possible as early as 2020 if we all get there together. And to my American friends who regret that France is introducing a national tax, I reply that our decisions are free and sovereign and I also reply: join the efforts of France and the European states to obtain a digital tax on a European scale because as soon as there is a solution at OECD level as effective, as credible, as fair as the one we maintain at national level, we will withdraw our national tax in favour of international taxation. This agreement within the OECD should not be a discount agreement. It will have to respond effectively to the challenges of digital taxation. But I am determined to work actively with my American partner Steven Mnuchin. Within the framework of the OECD, France will always defend the proposal for a minimum corporate tax rate. The tax evasion in fact revolts for our compatriots. It is not the SME in your territories, it is not the TPE, it is not the trader, it is not the self-employed who will relocate its profits to a state where the level of taxation is lower. It is the multinationals, which now have the highest profitability, that relocate their profits to be less taxed. We do not accept tax evasion and we will equip ourselves, within the framework of the G7 and the OECD, to combat this evasion. As you can see, we, together with the President of the Republic, remain committed to multilateral solutions. But multilateralism must not mean impotence. Multilateralism should not mean the status quo. Multilateralism should not mean immobilization. When we see that work takes years when it should take only a few months, it is once again France's honour to drive the movement. I have always considered that our nation was not there to follow the movement but to give it, that our nation was not there to be behind, but to be ahead, setting the course and setting ambitions for the international community. This is exactly what we propose here with the national taxation on digital giants. What is this national tax that we are presenting to you and to which we have worked at length with the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and his rapporteur-general, whom I thank both for the quality of the debates in committee? It is first of all a tax with a single rate: 3% on the digital turnover achieved in France. It is targeted as it will reach only the largest digital companies. It will have two cumulative thresholds: 750 million euros in turnover on digital activities worldwide and 25 million euros in turnover on digital activities carried out in France – all the more so that it targets companies with the highest turnover. The tax will cover only three types of digital activities, those that produce the most value: online targeted advertising, the sale of data for advertising purposes, and the networking of Internet users by platforms. We have had lengthy debates in committee on points which may seem technical but which could hide important political issues – this is the case with the scope of activities or the methods of calculating turnover. I would like to return briefly to some of your questions during our debates. First question: will the tax affect our national activities and be an obstacle to our digital activities? I repeat: we dream of having a multiplicity of European digital champions whose turnover would exceed 750 million euros, which is unfortunately not the case. The criticism of this question therefore seems misguided to me. The real obstacle is the emergence of digital giants who have reached monopoly positions, which, I insist, capture data, their processing and which can produce a network effect that is sufficiently powerful to prevent the emergence of new champions who could compete with them. Then, repeatedly questioned Charles de Courson, will there be an impact on consumers? The return on the tax is due to half of the targeted advertising activities. But these advertisements that you consult willingly, reluctantly – and rather willingly than willingly – every day are by definition free, otherwise I doubt very much that you would consult them. So I don't see how taxing online advertising could have an impact on the consumer. The other half of the tax return comes from the activities of the platforms, i.e. the revenues generated by the commissions taken by the platforms during a sale between intermediaries. These commissions are often in the order of 10%. If the tax were to be fully passed on – which I doubt very much, but take this maximalistic assumption – the price increase would be 3% by 10% or 0.3% of the selling price. In addition, it would be the overall selling price that would be concerned and not the selling price produced per product. I therefore doubt that this tax could constitute a major obstacle for users located in France. Quite frankly, who are we laughing at? When we see the profits, the turnover and the market valuation of these companies – I recall that this valuation far exceeds that of many important states – I believe that in France we look at straw in our eye rather than the beam in that of the neighbour. For my part, I prefer, for once, to look at the beam in the eye of the neighbour, and to say that it is good to restore some tax justice compared to the digital giants who use our data and those of French consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u7	Move on to the recovery of the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u8	The real question about this situation is: how do we grow our start-ups? The new tax will not penalize our start-ups, simply because it targets large French and foreign digital groups, and it does not target companies that digitize themselves, start-ups, or new companies. On the other hand, in order to grow our start-ups, it is time to understand that we need financing and a single European capital market. In Europe, we have a huge delay in the amount of venture capital investment compared to China or the United States. These amounts amount to €20 billion in 2018, in Europe, €100 billion in the United States, and €80 billion in China. The small amounts of venture capital operations in Europe explain the existence of giants elsewhere and their absence at home. It may be time to reverse this trend that weakens our economy. While the first question before me is whether we are not going much too far, whether the new tax will penalise the economy and destroy the entire French economy – which I do not think – the second, totally the opposite, is to tell me: your tax does not go far enough! I am encouraged to tax digital giants much more strongly. Some talk about 5% or 10% of turnover – I even saw a 15% tax proposal. I don't think it's reasonable to go that far. I do not think it is appropriate to extend the scope of the tax that we propose to you. It corresponds to the one chosen by the European Commission. No other State goes further in this regard. It seems to me that this is the reasonable scope, even if other countries, I recognize, are chosen different modalities, such as Austria, which has opted for a smaller field and a higher rate, i.e. 5 % of turnover. I do not wish to extend the scope of the tax. I think we have found the right balance, particularly in the Finance Committee. Some, such as Gilles Carrez, suggest that I integrate direct sales on the Internet, e-commerce in the broad sense, into the field of tax. This is a real subject, but it is another debate. Today we are discussing the taxation of digital activities, the value created by the marketing and the valorisation of personal data for advertising and commercial purposes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u9	So it's not just about the GAFAs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u10	The difference in taxation applicable to the marketing of property on the Internet and in one physical place is another debate. On the second subject, I propose that we follow up on the proposals made by Mr Gilles Carrez. With your rapporteur, Mr Joël Giraud, we are in favour of Mr Carrez's amendment concerning the prompt submission of a report from the Government to Parliament on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u11	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u12	We will then see what conclusions can be drawn. This is obviously a major subject of equity, particularly sensitive to the development of e-commerce. I am also asked a third question by explaining that the average tax rates for digital companies and other European companies I am advancing are false. Let me tell you that these figures are not mine, but those of the European Commission! These assessments can still be challenged, but they are those we use on the basis of typical cases that are not disconnected from the reality of the tax. On this subject, who are we making fun of? There is an undeniable reality: tax evasion in Europe is now very high. As demonstrated by the Commission's recent decision to request Ireland to recover EUR 13 billion of unfair tax benefits granted to Apple. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I recall that Mrs Margrethe Vestager, European Commissioner for Competition Policy, with whom I had the opportunity to address this issue this morning, said: "This selective treatment allowed Apple to be applied an effective corporate tax rate of 1% on its European profits in 2003, which decreased to 0.005% in 2014. Perhaps this does not revolt you, and you continue to think that our rate is too high; I don't think that's the case. I think this tax evasion, this aggressive tax optimisation, is outrageous. It must be fought, and it is the honour of this House to fight it and to reintroduce tax justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u13	What progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u14	All this, whatever our analysis, justifies us being offensive in defining the international taxation of the twenty-first century, because the tax debate is a debate on justice. The tax debate is a debate on the financing of our public goods. In the public gallery, I see young people attending school; Tomorrow, we will have to pay for our children's crèches, schools and colleges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u15	Long live the tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u16	We will not do this by systematically taxing companies that make the least profit, but by restoring tax justice and taxing profits and wealth where they are in business.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u17	The communists have been saying that for a long time: you have to take the money where it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u18	The tax debate also defines what we want as capitalism for the 21st century. We can resign ourselves, as some seem to be doing today, to the predominance of aggressive capitalism that uses all the loopholes of tax systems to escape fair taxation, and that develops this aggressiveness through the digitization of our economy. But to resign is to accept tomorrow's inability to finance our public services and our public goods. It is even more serious, because to resign to aggressive tax optimisations and capitalism that does not take into account the need to defend the general interest is to prepare a world where states will be weaker than private companies, and where the general interest will be weaker than the particular interests. It is because we must not resign ourselves that I hope that we will all rise to this challenge. Together with the European States and the United States, we must define what just taxation should be for the 21st century. This is what we are starting to do with this taxation of digital giants at national level. It is the honor of this majority to carry this ambition. It is the honour of the programme that we are defending and implementing to achieve fair taxation of digital giants. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is for this reason, in view of the stakes of this debate, those of the economy and capitalism of the twenty-first century, those of the balance of forces between the States, guarantors of the general interest, and those companies which necessarily pursue a private interest, that I would like the provision on the taxation of digital giants to be voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u19	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u20	This bill to introduce a digital services tax and to change the downward trajectory of corporate tax is important in many ways. It is a new step towards modernising our tax rules and strengthening tax fairness. It also makes it possible to allocate resources to finance the measures for purchasing power taken last December. Article 2 of the text maintains, in 2019, the normal corporate tax rate for large companies at 33.33%. While this article has aroused less passion than Article 1, it is nevertheless of great importance since it will increase tax revenues in 2019 by around €1.7 billion, a necessary step in a budgetary context that has improved significantly since the beginning of the legislature, but remains relatively constrained. Some want to delete this article, citing compliance with the 2018 Finance Act's trajectory, but it does not call this trajectory into question. On the one hand, it covers only 2019, covering neither the following years nor the target, set at 25%, for 2022. On the other hand, it only affects the 765 largest companies, those with a turnover of at least EUR 250 million. All the others, more than 1.4 million companies, will benefit from the planned rate of 31 per cent. Finally, it also does not call into question the application, for all companies, of the 28 % rate on the first EUR 500000 profit. I would add that the fiscal context in 2019 is rather favourable for businesses, as they will benefit from an unrivalled level of public support thanks to the cumulation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – and the reduction of expenses for a total of about €40 billion. Even the undertakings concerned understand the need for Article 2. Their professional organizations stated that they took note of it, without opposing it. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to follow the position of the Committee on Finance, which adopted this article, subject to two editorial changes. Article 1 causes a lot of ink to flow, and causes many clicks: multiple studies have flourished in recent days, most often sponsored by future tax payers... I do not go back on how it works: the minister presented it and I refer you to my report for further details. The new digital services tax, the TSN, is based on the shared observation that the digitisation of the economy has made much of the international tax rules obsolete and inadequate for a dematerialised economy that accentuates the dissociation between the place where value is created and the place where it is imposed. To meet this tax challenge, countries in the OECD agreed at the end of January to find a solution by the end of 2020. This is the Government's objective: to modernize international rules on the taxation of profits, including through the creation of a floor rate. In the meantime, we can't stand by. However, national policy space is limited by tax treaties, which would neutralise any arrangements for the taxation of profits. Taxation of turnover was never satisfactory: the Government recognized it, as I did, but it was because a profit-based approach would not work that turnover was the only possible national base, which would also be less conducive to manipulation. The fact that the plate is not ideal must, however, be very largely balanced by a decisive element, which also tempers all the other criticisms raised which I shall return to: the TSN has only a temporary vocation. The objective of the Government, supported by its majority, was that the concerted international solution could replace it as soon as possible. How does the TSN work? It is directly inspired by a proposal for a European Directive of March 2018 which could not be agreed unanimously, despite the support of a large majority of Member States. Its general economy is based on a simple principle: it focuses on services for which users, because of their "free work", are essential to creating value. This includes intermediation services, such as meeting sites or marketplaces, and targeted advertising services that use Internet users' data. That is why e-commerce, the minister, and communication or payment services are excluded. As far as they are concerned, the service itself, the inventory or the stock of the company creates the value: it does not come only from the participation of the users. This is also why the base is determined by applying a representative coefficient on the part of French users to global revenues, as provided for in the proposal for a directive. This is also why only the largest digital companies will be taxed, as they benefit from massive network effects. They are thus in an objectively different situation from that of smaller enterprises. The TSN should cover some 30 American, European and Asian groups. Its product for 2019 is estimated at 400 million euros. The TSN has been the subject of numerous criticisms and attacks, mainly on the part of some potential contributors, either directly or through their professional organizations. Many things have been said, but not all are accurate. Some people are brandishing the threat of US retaliatory measures, referrals to the World Trade Organization – WTO – by the United States, of investment restrictions, and relying on statements by American officials, the most recent being that of Mr. Mike Pompeo, the US Secretary of State. For my part, these arguments leave me skeptical. First, France is a sovereign country that pursues its national tax policy as it sees fit, within the European framework to which it has freely consented. Secondly, I do not see a trade war committing itself for a tax of 400 million euros, whereas, to take just one example, Google has been fined by the European Commission for more than 8 billion euros in the last two years. These fines must certainly attract more attention from Google and the United States than the French tax, and, to my knowledge, they did not trigger the apocalypse. Third, France is not alone: Italy has a similar tax in its law, the United Kingdom envisages it, Austria too, and Spain would have a TSN if its 2019 budget had not been rejected, causing early elections. India has been implementing a similar arrangement for several years, and New Zealand is also considering it. Finally, the TSN will be temporary: once a more effective international solution is available, it will replace it. In the meantime, the existence of the TSN keeps the pressure on the negotiations going. I would add that if our partners found the TSN imperfect, the best way to get rid of it would be to reach an international solution as soon as possible. The other critics also do not rely on strong arguments. So what about incompatibility with European law? The very fact of sticking to a proposal from the European Commission is an element of legal certainty,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u21	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u22	... and judgments of the Court of Justice such as Commission decisions tend to establish the full conformity of the TSN with Union rules. Would there be discrimination on nationality? But not since the tax will affect groups and businesses around the world, without targeting a particular country, and all the elements of the tax are based on objective and rational criteria. Will there be an impact on users? With regard to free services, it still seems difficult to believe, and for pay or commission services, the Minister recalled that the impact of TSN on each transaction will be marginal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u23	It is the consumers who will pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u24	Will the TSN affect companies with few margins? This is certainly possible, although unlikely given the sector affected, and it will not be the first sector-specific turnover tax to be created – I note that the previous ones had caused less emotion among some of our colleagues... And then, holding profit or margin as a base would expose the tax to neutralization by the conventions and allow manipulations. Finally, if the TSN will certainly affect US companies that already pay tax, the real question is not how much these companies pay from IS, but where, knowing that this is not where value is created, where their users are, in this case in France. I would add that while the tax rate for some U.S. companies has increased, it includes the thousands of billions of dollars that have been housed for years in Bermuda or elsewhere tax-free, and only recently taxed. I would recall that the European Commission has established that Apple, between 2003 and 2014, supported its European profits with an IS rate of 1%, down to 0.005%, which is 5000 times less than the figures in some of the studies that have been published in recent days. Let us come to the work of the committee. We have made many changes to the original system that improve, clarify or make it more operational. Thus, by an amendment I tabled, excluded services were precisely defined, including auction exchanges in programmatic advertising, but also, to take into account the opinion of the Council of State, certain financial services. We also have a special mechanism in place to ensure that the TSN due for 2019 relates to data that are actually available to the parties. Furthermore, on my initiative, the initial mechanism of monetary conversion into euro has been improved to take account of exchange rate changes in the year. The reporting and payment arrangements have also been improved by various clarifications, including the inclusion in the law of the penalty base applicable in the event of excessive downsizing of instalments. In addition, the Commission has made the control of the TSN more operational and secure since, at the initiative of our colleagues Émilie Cariou and Jean-Noël Barrot, the deadline for the resumption of the administration has been extended to six years, and at my initiative, the notice prior to any ex officio taxation has been extended, with the aim of not penalising the liable parties unduly. Our commission has also removed the deductibility of the TSN from the base of another tax, known as the " YouTube tax", so as not to reduce the resources of the CNC – the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image. We have also, almost unanimously, adopted several identical amendments signed by the two draftsmen for opinions, by our MODEM colleagues and myself, to address concerns about the provisional nature of the TSN. Every year, and as early as September, the Government will have to present the state of the ongoing international negotiations, the avenues studied and their impact on France and our companies, and, I stress, all the elements to provide a timetable or date for replacing the international solution to the TSN. We will therefore be able to discuss these issues as early as September, ensuring that Parliament has a well-informed right to look at them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a rare opportunity for the House to send a strong signal in favour of tax fairness and, more generally, to participate in the work of modernising the international tax framework. That is why the committee passed this bill, enriched by the elements that I quickly presented to you, and I invite you to do the same from now on, by making any improvements that may prove useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u25	I call Mr Benoit Potterie, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u26	I am pleased to present to you the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the draft law on the taxation of digital services and modification of the downward trajectory of the IS. Our committee has taken up the matter for an opinion because, beyond its fiscal dimension, this text contains essential trade, competition and digital issues. I would like to stress Article 1e r because it responds to a strong expectation from our fellow citizens that digital giants will pay their fair share of taxes. The following observations have already been made: Digital giants pay taxes far below their contributory capacity. Two main reasons explain this state of affairs: these companies create value from intangible assets, and our tax system, which relies on the physical presence of companies, no longer manages to tax value where it is created; But this is also due to the tax optimisation strategies of some digital giants. This situation is no longer tenable. Indeed, it leads to a loss of profits for the State: the Digital Council estimates this budget loss at almost 500 million euros per year, for the GAFA alone. This is all the more unacceptable because digital giants benefit fully from French public services, employing engineers trained in our universities, mobilising our road networks and telecommunications networks. Mechanically, the missing tax revenue is referred to as an additional tax burden on other categories of debtors. How can we not understand taxpayers' feelings of injustice when a small trader may have to pay more taxes than a multinational? At a time when consent to tax sometimes seems to crack, this is a major issue for the social pact. Moreover, from an economic point of view, the too low taxation of digital giants strengthens their monopolistic position and creates a distortion of competition: I am thinking of hotels or the individual transport of people, who have seen their activity upset by the arrival of new players proportionally less imposed; I am also thinking of the French and European digital nuggets, because how can we expect them to grow when they have to pay much higher taxes than already leading companies in their market? In view of this, our committee is fully supportive of the digital services tax. The base allows to target activities for which users are directly involved in value creation. And the thresholds allow only very large companies to be targeted: for example, the tax will mitigate the anti-competitive effects mentioned above, without penalising small and intermediate enterprises. I would also like to raise the issue of tax fairness between physical and e-commerce, because it is a subject that I care about. In this connection, I welcome the adoption in committee of the amendment by Mr Carrez and Mr Giraud, which provides for the submission of a report on the subject. I am convinced that a comprehensive overhaul of trade taxation is necessary in order to adapt to changes in the sector. Finally, I am referring to the temporary nature of this tax, which the Government has committed itself to. We are aware that the solution must ultimately be international. That is why I welcome the adoption of an amendment to provide Parliament with an annual report on the state of the international negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u27	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u28	Remarkable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u29	Parliament thus provides itself with the means to ensure effective monitoring of the Government's activities. I have also heard concerns about the possibility of postponing the cost of the user tax. Of course, one cannot predict exactly the behaviour of economic agents, but several elements can reassure on this point: on the one hand, most of the services provided by the companies concerned are free for consumers, which by definition makes it impossible to increase prices; On the other hand, an increase in the amounts invoiced seems unlikely for TPEs and SMEs that use targeted advertising and intermediation services because the companies that are liable are operating in environments that remain highly competitive. With regard to Article 2, the change in the trajectory of the IS is a measure that we did not foresee, but which responds precisely to a situation which is itself unpredictable. We know this: it is a question of securing the financing of the economic and social emergency measures in favour of the purchasing power of the households that we voted for in December. Let us not be mistaken about the message: French companies are still suffering too much from administrative and tax burdens. The reduction in corporate taxes remains a political priority for the legislature. Our majority is the first to say so strongly, where others have contented themselves with promises. The target of a normal rate of 25% for 2022 is maintained, and we will ensure that. But it is right that very large companies should be used on a cyclical basis to meet citizens' expectations of purchasing power. Again, this is an essential issue for the sustainability of the social pact. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The two sections of this bill reflect strong expectations of the citizens to whom the legislator must respond today. That is why the Committee on Economic Affairs fully supports it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u30	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u31	I call Mr Denis Masséglia, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u32	[[Applause on all benches]] In the preamble, I want to pay tribute to the doctor Captain Marc Laycuras, who died for France last week in Mali and who receives, a few hundred meters from us, in the courtyard of the Hôtel national des Invalides, a national tribute. The doctor captain was born on 12 January 1989 in Cholet, a town in my constituency. I would like to pay tribute to his memory, his sacrifice and the commitment of our soldiers in the service of France and against terrorist groups. It's an international issue. France and its soldiers are on the rendezvous. The text we are discussing today in public session concerns the fair taxation of large companies and, as such, is also an international issue. Because only action at the global level will effectively combat tax evasion, which undermines the revenues of States. After the ratification of the OECD multilateral convention to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, known as BEPS, addressed the specificities of the digital economy, which exacerbated the erosion of tax bases, was a moral requirement. As early as March 2018, the European Commission took up the challenge by proposing two directives that outlined an ambitious and realistic tax work. This was an opportunity for Europe to assert its values, which are the hallmarks of tax justice, on the international stage. Without being perfect, the European digital services tax was a salutary first step. But, despite our common values, several European countries have opposed this project... This is another argument in favour of moving from unanimity to a qualified majority in tax matters. Paradoxically, while a global agreement on the subject seemed to be only a distant horizon, the OECD is now on the front line. Indeed, since 2012, the OECD has made the tax challenges posed by the digital economy one of its priorities, it was even the first action of the BEPS plan. The United States has for a long time vetoed any change in the rules in this area, but the tax reform adopted in December 2017 has resulted in a complete reversal of its position: hostile to multilateralism in principle, the United States has become a strong supporter of multilateralism in tax matters. All of this has led 127 countries to commit to a global agreement by 2020. This commitment is very encouraging, but the work of the OECD is only at an early stage and could lead to a real Big Bang of international tax rules. Three debates are now on the table. The first concerns the scope of the problem: should the digital economy be specifically considered, including sectors where users have an important role in creating value, or should the digitisation of the economy as a whole be addressed? There is strong reason to believe that data will be central to the entire economy. The second concerns the desirability of reallocating the direct tax duties from the place of creation of value to the place of consumption. This idea is supported by countries as powerful as China and the United States, and should therefore move forward quickly. It is not certain that France is a winner of such a development, hence the importance of carrying out in-depth fiscal and economic impact studies. The last, complementary to the previous one, concerns the creation of a minimum tax. It is favored by France and Germany. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei also applauds]] These debates are taking place at this very moment. While France holds the presidency of the G7, it is crucial that it can make its voice heard on these issues on which the future of our tax revenues depends. Through this bill, the Government has chosen to take the lead without waiting for the results of European and international work, the outcome of which is uncertain. This initiative deserves to be welcomed, especially as our citizens need immediate responses to the growing feeling of fiscal injustice. The proposed fee is balanced; The chosen base shows that this is not a performance measure but above all a training measure. The Government recalled that this tax is only temporary, pending a global agreement. Our assembly must be able to follow the link that will take place to move from a national measure to a global agreement, or even to accompany and promote it. For this reason, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Finance has adopted an amendment to ensure that Parliament is regularly informed of the progress of international work and that we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u34	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u35	We will begin our consideration of this bill, which provides for the creation of a digital services tax as well as a challenge to the downward trajectory of corporate tax. It consists of two articles which therefore fall under quite different orders of thought. That has been said, much of the value created every day in France by digital services, mainly from our personal data, escapes us. The digitization of the economy has made our tax system permeable and created unbearable inequalities not only between companies but also between states. This misappropriation of profits based on tax optimisation schemes, or even tax evasion, mainly carried out by digital giants, is at the expense of the state, public services, competing local businesses and citizens. This new economy forces us to adopt a new tax system. With this text, the Government proposes an interim solution to tax the turnover of digital companies. Although it is not perfect, it has the merit of giving France leadership on this subject while waiting for a lasting solution to be developed at the level of the OECD countries. Minister, why did you wait two years before you took up this issue? As early as October 2017, we proposed that you enshrine in French law the definition of digital permanent establishment. You then told us that our proposal came too soon and that we must first try to reach a European agreement. During these two years, things have not progressed as you hoped. What are the reasons for this failure? We are convinced that France can and must engage unilaterally, and that it can play a leading role in Europe. If an acceleration of discussions has taken place in recent years, we are still far from the signing of a lasting agreement and, because of the rule of unanimity in tax matters, the solution will certainly go through the OECD and not through Europe. Minister, I have several questions to ask you about the device you have retained. According to some studies, the corporate tax rate difference would not be 14%, as you say, but much lower. Even if no one is fooled by the lack of independence of these studies, it is important to know whether this difference is due to a problem of calculation, base or base, and whether these are global or French figures. If we want to build another tax system, we need to know exactly how much the tax gap between us is. The proposed scheme also raises the problem of double taxation. Some companies that will pay the new tax, in particular French companies, are already taxed for the same corporate tax activities. The digital services tax will only be partially deductible from the IS, at the base level, up to a third. There is, therefore, a clear risk of double taxation, a key issue in international tax rules. How do you appreciate this risk? Beyond this issue, this text, as you have said, must address a broader problem, that of fiscal injustice between physical businesses and online businesses, especially when these are done by transnational actors. In this respect, I support Gilles Carrez's request for a report, which I believe has been unanimously adopted by our committee, so that a real reflection can be made on the solutions that can safeguard physical commerce, particularly in the city centres and rural areas. Today, taxes are based mainly on land, therefore the sales area or the value of stores. But the purplayers, to use an Anglo-Saxon term, pass through this net. It is therefore necessary to find a tax base that corresponds to the reality of the activity. We must also take advantage of the review of this text to ask ourselves about the recasting of the international tax rules that the OECD has been working on since January: beyond digital companies, it is the rules for the distribution of IS between countries that need to be reviewed. Traditional transfer pricing and residency rules could be abandoned in favour of new rules favouring countries where the goods and services produced by such enterprises are consumed. With regard to the possible effects of these new rules, the discourses are contradictory. Will they benefit France, which is more a country of production and residence than a country of consumption? The question arises, and we will have to arrive at a clear answer. On this subject, of course, we will have to move forward with the OECD, while at the same time being vigilant and cautious. Finally, I would like to say a word about article 2 of the draft, which goes back to the Government's promise to reduce the IS rate to 28% in 2019. Compared to what was planned, this break is actually a significant increase in this rate, and the explanations you are making about this are quite staggering. Indeed, you say you want to honour the commitment you made to achieve in 2022 at a rate of 25% and, as proof of what you're making, you're eager not to hold on to those for 2019! While you claim to want to lower taxes, the first decision you make is to increase the IS! You are doubly at odds with yourself and, by doing so, you not only undermine the competitiveness of businesses, but you destroy the confidence they gave to your commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u36	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u37	First of all, I would like to thank Denis Masséglia for the quality of his report and the relevance of his amendment. Minister, the creation of a digital services tax proposed in the text before us today addresses two major issues: the global challenge of digitizing the economy and the demand of our citizens for greater tax justice. Allow me to thank you for the tenacity that has been yours on this issue – I regret that you were not listening to me –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u38	I'm listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u39	... which is all the more important for France as it is for our country to take the lead in a movement that will concern Europe, then the world. The stakes are immense, as shown by the reaction of the United States, which opposes a specific taxation of digital technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u40	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u41	I am pleased that France is keeping up, because there is no reason why digital companies should pay less taxes than our SMEs, who are the big job providers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u43	On this and other issues, moving forward only when everyone agrees is the best way not to move forward at all! In order to meet the new challenges, the world of tomorrow will have to imagine new rules that are global and fair. Precursors are needed to launch a movement. This is the role of France today, and that is how we love it. However, it will be necessary to go further, first within the European Union. It should be recalled that 23 Member States of the European Union had agreed to this tax, but, as in tax matters, the unanimity rule applied, this rule prevented a European solution from being required for the taxation of digital companies. The same rule has favoured tax dumping and the development of unfair tax competition for years. It has been a long time since I have been advocating with other Members that social and fiscal harmonisation should take place in the European Union and that corporate taxes should be harmonised in order to put an end to tax avoidance and optimisation. Turning to the qualified majority rule in tax matters is therefore a top priority in the coming years. I hope that, on this vital issue, a unity of view of all political sensitivities is required, so that France will speak with one voice tomorrow. Finally, we need an international agreement on the taxation of digital giants in the long run. The OECD is working hard on this. Under pressure from the G20 and some states, including France and Spain, the lines began to move. It is already one hundred and twenty-seven countries that have agreed to work together on this issue. These international negotiations will have to lead to concrete results in 2020. Until then, France must have a leading role and act in such a way as to allow for concrete first steps, in particular on the occasion of the next G7. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Minister, the digital transformation of our economy must lead to a new, global and global taxation, and the demand for a fairer tax that our fellow citizens express must be heard. This is the sine qua non for confidence to be reborn in France, Europe and the world tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u44	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u45	I have received a motion from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u46	Listening to André Chassaigne, you'll see what real Marxism is! The difference lies in efficiency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u47	Why, then, do we want this bill referred to committee? As it stands, your copy is completely insufficient: "Can do better". And it is not the former principal of the college that carries such an appreciation in red pencil, but the representative of a parliamentary group and a political force that placed the fight against tax evasion at the heart of their struggles. I will try to put it as simply as possible, starting with an inventory. This one is well known. You have also pointed out, Minister, that there is a delusional tax gap between multinationals, particularly those in the digital sector, and TPEs and SMEs. According to commonly reported figures, the average tax on large digital companies would be 9%, when it reaches 23% for French SMEs! This scandalous gap, first of all, shows that the loss of profits for the public authorities is considerable, since the tax collected is not in common with the actual activity of these companies in our country or with the far-reaching benefits they have at the global level. It also shows a clear distortion of competition between economic actors. A concrete example will allow us to realize the extent of the problem: let's take the one of the Amazon online sales platform, the world's economic mastodon. According to available estimates, Amazon would pay only €8 million in taxes in our country, less than many SMEs in our territories! These are the French figures. Let's cross the Channel: in the UK, Amazon pays less tax than N'Golo Kanté, our brave midfielder football champion. Let's now cross the Atlantic. Stupor: We learn that Amazon benefits from a negative corporate tax! Through tax credits and other deductions, Amazon does not pay the federal government money, but the other way around! Amazon recovered $129 million last year. In total, the company has recorded a profit of $10.1 billion, and its founder Jeff Bezos has the world's largest fortune, estimated at $134 billion. Such a finding, unfortunately valid for many international companies, defies understanding. The states are out of date! As for TPEs and SMEs, they are unable to play in the same court as these companies. How can this tax gap be explained? Of course, some services, particularly in the digital field, are not yet taxed, while the activity of billions of Internet users, including tens of millions of French, generates considerable value. Therefore, our tax system needs to be adapted accordingly. However, this difference is primarily due to the "agility" of large digital companies by locating their costs in some territories, intellectual property in others, and ultimately placing their profits where taxation is lowest. Great art! So we are facing a major challenge. The evil is deep. Our fellow citizens are aware of this, who rightly point to the obvious tax injustice in our country, symbolised by tax evasion. It was their mobilization that forced the President of the Republic to announce measures to force multinationals making profits in our country to pay taxes. A few weeks before the European elections, we have before us this bill which is intended to give concrete effect to the presidential announcements made four months ago and to organize the tax response. However, it is difficult to talk about a response, the proposed remedy being, I would say, a bandage on a gangrene-affected limb. For example, you are proposing a digital services tax at a single rate of 3% applicable to a small thirty companies, based solely on digital services, whose annual return is expected to be around 500 million euros gross, i.e. 350 million net after deduction. I will come back on a point-by-point basis on all these elements. First of all, let us take the proposed mechanism, namely a turnover tax. I will not mention in detail the limits of such taxation, because we will certainly have the opportunity to come back to it during our discussions. In making such a choice, little attention is paid to the financial and social health of a company. Other tools are much more effective, such as the taxation of profits, but since we insist on not thoroughly reforming our corporate tax so that it can be truly adapted to the challenges posed by the tax actions of multinationals, we limit ourselves, in order to correct imbalances that are now far too heavy, to DIY. This tax is part of this framework: that of a DIY. I come back to the base: by limiting it to unique digital activities, its scope is particularly limited. In terms of ambition, we've seen better. To this minimum base will apply a single rate tax: 3%. This is a real disappointment, it is very clear. It shows that, in the face of possible legal remedies on the part of the companies concerned, you preferred, Minister, to reduce the wing. Yet, Minister, a few weeks ago in the Senate, you told Senator Marie-Noëlle Lienemann that this tax would be progressive depending on the level of turnover. But progressive taxation means more ambitious and fairer taxation. Last, the solution finally adopted is that of a single rate tax, which is also at a low rate. Why such a hindrance? Was it really not possible to adopt a progressive tax while limiting legal risks? What is the nature of these risks? Who is putting pressure on it and why have you given it the right to do so by holding a single rate? And why not opt for a higher rate, for example 5%, as in Austria?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u48	It's not the same plate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u49	By combining a reduced tax base and a similar rate, it is not surprising that the annual return on the tax barely exceeds half a billion dollars. And again, as this tax is deductible from corporate tax, its net return will be one-third lower. We are therefore meeting to discuss a tax that will bring about around €350 million net to the state budget. By way of comparison, of course, there is no malice on my part, that is ten times less than the loss of revenue caused by the removal of the ISF. The scope of the measure is therefore largely symbolic or even political. On the one hand, it will not compensate for the hole in our public finances for which the big multinationals are responsible. On the other hand, it will not address the tax imbalance between these major groups and our TPEs and SMEs. Minister, to what extent will the tool proposed today reduce this gap? As I said earlier, large groups are at 9% taxation, SMEs at 23%. With this tax, how much will we be? 10 percent? 11 percent? In other words, our fears are great that this tax will not serve as a useful tax instrument, but, like the law against tax evasion passed last September, which was only a wet firecracker, a mere political display. I would like to take one of its provisions as an example: the recasting of the French list of tax havens. On this point, we were going to see what we were going to see. At the time of the examination of the bill defended in March 2018 by my colleague and colleague Fabien Roussel and establishing a credible, modern, ambitious French list of tax havens, you had bottled, pointing out that an equally ambitious, modern and credible project was in the pipeline. What's the result? What's the result? A hare and inoperative list, far from being an objective reflection of the global fiscal reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u50	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u51	I come to the provisions of Article 2, the content of which I recall: in order to finance some of the measures announced at the end of last year, you plan to freeze the downward trajectory of corporate tax for 2019 alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u52	It's a start.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u53	You could say: Very well. Twenty out of twenty. Except that there is no question of questioning that trajectory, which must be translated into a 25 per cent corporate tax rate, as opposed to 33.3 per cent previously, all without a massive grooming of tax credits and other tax niches that put their returns on. Clearly, you intend to benefit once again from the anointing of Members on this current and future decline. Minister, don't count on the Communist MPs to give it to you. On the one hand, on the other hand, you claim to equip our country with tools aimed at renovating the taxation of large multinationals – and implicitly to fight against the phenomena of tax evasion – on the other – "at the same time"... – you reduce the corporate tax, in accordance with the logics of competitiveness and attractiveness. I see it as a major contradiction, because with this Article 2, you are playing the map of tax competition and the terrible race to the scalable at least so-called tax at work in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u54	But no, it's the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u55	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, remember: in the 1980s, in the very old world, the corporate tax rate was 50%. It was therefore divided by two in 2022. What a drift! You get the pompon in the great gift ride to the societies. Moreover, the reduction in their taxes is often based on counter-truths. This tax is presented – and this has been said in the gallery by one of our colleagues – as a confiscatory, while, in fact, its place is now marginal in our tax system: we are therefore far from the clichés of too heavy a tax that would cause anxiety to companies, especially large ones. After the introduction of the research tax credit and the CICE disaster, the return on corporate tax literally fell: it is only 3.4% – I say 3.4%! – all compulsory levies. For example, this is barely half the income tax. In the end, the litany of a corporation tax that would be heavier in our country than elsewhere is only an incantatory liturgy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u56	[[Smile]] It's not very secular.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u57	Yet, without calling into question the derogatory devices that already reduce their scope, you distribute the offerings. The budgetary impact of this trajectory is frankly not neutral: according to the figures of our excellent rapporteur-general, it will cost us 11.2 billion euros from 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u58	I confirm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u59	In comparison with Article 1, the order of magnitude is quite different. It should be noted that the financial sector will capture 25% of the total tax gain, and it should be agreed that it was not in any way in need of it. In the end, the two articles are far from putting our country in order to comply with the tax justice imperative. So you will understand why we want to refer this bill back to committee. We will have the opportunity to put it back on a basis that we believe would be beneficial. [[Mr. Mayor smiles]] You are a man of culture, minister, you could oppose me, by quoting René Char, that "the unfulfilled fills the essentials". To this I would reply: let us therefore return to the essentials. And I would quote in return a verse from Louis Aragon: "From bottom to bottom, together, we have to redo". Undoubtedly, on the themes that bring us together today, there is a need for political will.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u60	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u61	In Europe and France, however, political will is not up to the challenge. Be careful, I'm not saying things are easy. Of course, as you said and said again, the stakes are multiple. We are evolving in a globalized world, and interests are multiple and sometimes contradictory. Economic actors – these large and ultra-rich groups with colossal fortunes – have become so large that they are now in a position to twist the arm of public powers and impose their views so that regulation can move in their direction. The search for the Grail of special interest thus succeeds in imposing itself in the face of the general interest and in the face of the interests of the greatest number: it is thus democracy as a whole that is trampled. By attacking these powerful interests with a water gun, public decision-makers, be they French, European or global, are, however, acting only on cosmetic adjustments, i.e. false-semblances. Should we continue to accept this great escape that takes place before our eyes, in real time, and wait, months or even years, to get even a thin layout? All this is no longer tenable. From these vain attempts, this fatality, and even this political resignation, the French have sighed: it is now unbearable for them to see the tax cheat continue to be two or even three times ahead. Evidence of this is that, in the course of our discussions on roundabouts, as well as in the public debates and meetings in which we participated in this great debate, the fight against tax evasion has emerged as one of the main concerns of our citizens. And because: I was saying, tax evasion is the very symbol of tax injustice! While some, whether individual or corporate, continue to evade the tax and subtract considerable amounts from it, the middle and popular classes have to pay full bribes. Worse still, they are being asked to increase their efforts to finance the tax cuts that will benefit these rich taxpayers and large companies, on the grounds that they could move elsewhere and move their wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u62	I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u63	This is illustrated by the increase in the carbon tax, which caused the social fire that has been burning our country for the past twenty-one weeks. Why, indeed, has it been decided to increase taxes on fuel? Not for ecological reasons. That, in the words of the Prime Minister, is bullshit! In our house, they say, it's bullshit. Fuel taxes were ultimately to increase in order to finance the budget shortfall caused by the abolition of the ISF, which itself decided to fight against the so-called tax exile of rich taxpayers and to ensure that our tax system is competitive. CQFD. In the end, our system increases the exemptions for the most mobile economic players, the very rich and the multinationals, which will be financed by the largest number, either by additional taxes – whether VAT or the CSG – or by the decline of public services in our territories: maternity hospitals that close, cash that disappears, prefecture opening hours that are shrinking or an ever-increasing dematerialisation of these administrative procedures that leaves the victims of the digital divide on the job. This is how the phenomena of tax fraud, optimisation and avoidance are very concretely reflected. Minister, you are a Liberal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u64	Clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u65	You're assuming it. You are a liberal who, of course, has a Gaullist culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u66	[[Smile]] Finally a compliment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u67	But that is precisely why this situation should not satisfy you, given the distortion of competition it creates between companies. Some of them, in fact, are crafty to reduce as much as possible their contribution to the public effort, scaffolding a cascade of installations and legal structures in order to pay the tax where it is most advantageous for them. But for the TPEs, for these artisans, bakers, hairdressers, these small factories that we have in our territories, all these installations are out of reach. In proportion, they therefore pay more taxes: this double standard is now outrageously marked. While it costs us between EUR 60 billion and EUR 100 billion every year, our citizens therefore expect a fierce struggle and a strong political will to tackle this scourge, this cancer which is eating away from society and which is undermining the social cohesion of our country as a whole. A systemic problem requires systemic responses. We must therefore act at all levels, from local to transnational.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u68	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u69	Thus, we propose that the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion be the main national cause of the year 2020 and that it mobilise all actors: public authorities, voluntary sectors, companies and trade union organisations. It must set itself the objective of zero tax evasion. Constitutional reform must be carried out to explicitly include the imperatives of tax justice and the constitutional objective of combating tax fraud and tax evasion. Considering these scourges as a result of the Republican Pact and social cohesion, our fundamental norm must be amended so that all legal possibilities are open to representatives of the people to legislate and to take strong measures. We could thus generalise public reporting country by country, which is an effective tool against tax evasion. Currently applicable only to large French banks, its generalisation to other economic actors would make it possible to make transparency at the locations of activity, staff and tax paid. It would be a useful tool for the citizens and politicians we are. But, as my colleague Fabien Roussel has proposed, let us also maintain the withholding tax on the profits of multinationals before these profits go abroad. We could also recognize in our general tax code the concept of "digital permanent establishment" in order to characterize the reality of the activity carried out in our country by digital giants. "This is not possible because your proposals are contrary to tax treaties or European law," we are told. Either, then, let's amend our tax treaties! Let us renegotiate them and open discussions at European level to make these legislative changes possible. Let's get out of the inhibition and be ambitious! France is a very large country; it has the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u70	Yes, it's time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u71	Let us have a credible list of tax havens, based on fair criteria and global fiscal reality, and with balanced sanctions, like the one proposed by our group last year. Let us ban French banks from operating in tax havens as long as this is in line with a clear desire to evade tax! Strengthen sanctions for white-collar offenders to deprive them of their privileges. Let us strengthen the prerogatives of employees in companies, from which they are sometimes victims of tax actions: we have seen this recently with McDonald's. It is now clear that staff representatives play a key role in the fight against tax evasion, evasion and optimisation. They must be informed and consulted on the company's transfer pricing policy and on the disposal of assets within the same group. In the face of the battalions of taxists who work in the underhand to optimize tax more and more, at the frontiers of legality, let us equip ourselves, not of a police, but of an army, of a tax army! Instead of weakening them, strengthen the workforce of fiscal control, the Directorate-General for Public Finance and Customs! These items report more than they cost: this should reassure the proponents of the accounting logic applied to the state. Let's simplify our tax law, its complexity making the nest of escapees of all kinds. Let us fight effectively against VAT fraud, which costs us 20 billion euros every year. On this point, some recent proposals by our colleagues Ugo Bernalicis and Jacques Maire deserve to be explored. At the local level, let us reward fiscally virtuous businesses, especially in public procurement open by the communities. Let us move forward at European level towards convergence from the top to combat tax and social dumping: let us do so at 27 or, if necessary, unless, but let us finally move forward so that these harmful tax practices, these zero tax rates, these secret agreements between governments and multinationals, and this opacity which lead to siphoning neighbours, will gradually disappear. Such actions are no longer possible in a market where capital flows freely, without control and without restriction: they lead Europe to the abyss. Europe is moving in the right direction, obstinating itself to further reducing the taxation of the richest and major groups, thereby weakening the financing of joint action. How can we still accept that some of the world's worst tax havens are at our borders? How can we accept that our major groups take advantage of it to locate some of their subsidiaries in a timely manner? This is one of the main reasons for the infringement of the European Union: this political project has been replaced by an economic project which, of a liberal, technical and accounting nature, leads to a decline in social rights and insecurity; It is the project that has become blind of a phantom Europe, because it is unable to grasp the fractures to which it leads, unable to apprehend the emergencies that confront us, first and foremost the environmental emergency. Without a paradigm shift, especially on taxation, Europe will definitely enter its twilight. At the global level, as you said, discussions are moving forward at the OECD level, and that is so much better. We will be very attentive to their outcome. But other levers must be mobilised. We cannot stand by and wait for white smoke to come out of the OECD's negotiating rooms! For it is indeed all the states that are victims of tax evasion, and especially the developing countries, that see EUR 100 billion escaping them every year. We must lead the battle to the United Nations. Let us organize, as we have been able to do in environmental matters, a large COP – Conference of the Parties – fiscal and financial bringing together all the states around the table. The environmental COP is failing today, you will tell me. Maybe, momentarily. However, we believe in the virtues of multilateralism and its concrete achievements. With a tax COP under the aegis of the United Nations, France would have a powerful diplomatic tool, capable of bringing together a very large number of states and leading to concrete solutions. We propose two: on the one hand, to create a global register of corporate owners, in order to combat opacity; on the other, to provide the United Nations with a genuine unit to combat tax evasion. Within the United Nations, only two people are currently working on this issue. Let's go further! In conclusion, minister, I have a question for you. Last December, at the height of the social movement, the President of the Republic announced initiatives to compel all leaders of major French groups to pay their taxes in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u72	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u73	When will we have to discuss these proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u74	To the Saint-Glinglin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u75	We can't believe they're already buried. We therefore expect elements of a response. Your words, minister, had sometimes Bolshevik accents. But they're just words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u76	Words, words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u77	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] So let me give you one last quote to help you move forward: "Where there is a will, there is a way. This quote, I leave it to you to find the author.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u78	In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u79	The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this motion, not by disagreeing with the text – we have said we would vote for it – but for the very clear reasons set out by André Chassaigne. A more comprehensive reflection, he said, is necessary, first of all on the tax paid by companies. The minister recalled this in committee last week, as a percentage of GDP, the return on taxes, contributions and taxes will decrease for businesses as it increases for households. A synthetic reflection, in the Committee on Finance or in the Chamber, on these various contributions, and on how they are paid by companies according to their size, seems to us to be indispensable for our debate – even though this issue, alas, has not been the most salient of the big debate. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] As the questions raised by President Chassaigne go in this direction, we will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u80	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u81	The IUD, Act and Independent Group will also vote, albeit for different reasons, on this motion for referral to committee. Contrary to what you said in your opening speech, Minister, the tax envisaged here is not a "GAFAM tax", since it will also apply to French and European companies that are in deficit or have only small margins. We understand that the Swedes have refused your proposal: the company Spotify, which has a turnover of 5 billion euros, is nevertheless in deficit because, in its sector, it is necessary to invest in order to be a leader. In this respect, you have had rather harsh comments for French companies: I imagine they will have heard them. Your diagnosis of the tax, its distribution and its non-repatriation – which does not mean, moreover, that it is not paid somewhere – is fairly correct; But you conclude that you have to tax the turnover. Such taxation is almost worse than that of value added, since it aims, in a way, at the cost of production, at the cost of manufacturing and at investment. In short, this tax, far from meeting the stated objectives, will only exacerbate distortions of competition and fiscal injustice. In addition, it will have an impact for consumers, the French will soon realize it. Your brilliant economic demonstrations suggested the opposite, but our debates will show that they are not on the road. In our view, these various reasons are in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u82	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u83	I would like to take this opportunity to point out, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, in this period of European campaign that the strategy of negotiating tax justice measures under the current treaties has failed, and we understand why. Why, for example, would Ireland abandon its policy of tax dumping, which is at the foundation of its economy? We are therefore pleased that the Government, forced to respond to the demand for tax justice, finally endorses our own proposal to make France a leader. That is what we see as the value of this bill. France may indeed be a leader, but it is still very timid here, as the measures envisaged seem weak. A real step forward would have been to tax profits rather than revenue – but you say it is impossible –; It would have been to tax all the services – which would create, you say, a border that we still do not perceive –; It would have been to involve the largest companies, and not just the three largest ones. All these limits reduce the bill and its tax impact – 500 million euros, while it could reach 5 billion euros. This impact is therefore very low. A referral to committee would broaden the scope of the text and deepen the concepts underlying it. We therefore feel that it is absolutely necessary. You want to fight against tax evasion with this bill, minister, but I doubt it will help to recover what all of the businesses in question are losing to the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u84	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u85	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on the motion for referral to committee tabled by President Chassaigne. Tax evasion is a real cancer. Some, including the minister, describe it as a dysfunction of modern financial capitalism. On the contrary, it is one of the essential workings. In the face of political inaction, multinational corporations and rich taxpayers are able to invest their capital where taxation is most advantageous. Worse still, the states are playing this terrible game to the full by lowering taxes more and more. With tax havens, we are dealing with real black holes in the economy, the dens of dirty money, crime, prostitution and human trafficking. As André Chassaigne said, to this systemic problem, we must provide systemic responses. From this point of view, a referral to committee would allow the bill to be reworked to give it a real consistency. In the state, as André Chassaigne once again said, it amounts to tackling a major problem with a water gun. Let us therefore be more ambitious, and our fellow citizens demand it very widely. Speaking of taxes, this noon, the Prime Minister spoke of the "zero fiscal tolerance" of the French. He did not make the right diagnosis, which is worrying for the coming weeks, since this diagnosis will result from all the proposals of the executive that emerged from the great debate. No, our fellow citizens are not opposed to taxation as a matter of principle. What they want is for the tax to be fair and for everyone to contribute according to their abilities. With the abolition of the capital tax and the introduction of the tax floor on capital income, consent to the tax was broken. If we are to respond to the anger of our fellow citizens, we must restore this consent to tax. And this requires strong measures: on the one hand, the restoration of the property tax and a progressive income tax; On the other hand, a real tax on multinationals, especially digital ones. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] However, as it stands, the proposed measure is clearly insufficient. And we doubt the will to strengthen it in session. That is why a referral to committee is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u86	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u87	Many of you have proposals to make to adapt our tax system, visibly overtaken by the digitization of the economy. The members of the Liberties and Territories Group expressed in committee their full interest in this bill, as well as their reservations. What is certain is that the status quo is no longer tenable: corporate tax is largely circumvented, and it does not take into account the digital dimension of the economy; This leaves scope for digital companies, in particular, to operate in one country while being taxed in another. We know that. The question of adapting our tax system to digital is therefore raised, and the creation of a digital services tax responds to a need for tax justice between businesses – tax justice, by the way. Our committee discussions have been long and instructive. It is therefore not necessary for us to refer this text back to committee; Let us debate here and continue to improve the bill. We will not vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u88	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u89	Since our election, we have been questioned in our constituencies by mayors as well as by ordinary citizens on tax evasion and the GAFA tax. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have also proved that we have taken these subjects with arms-to-body: we have acted when others have dreamed a lot. I am thinking of the removal of Bercy's lock, of course, but also of the transposition of the convention to implement the OECD BEPS project, in order to combat tax optimisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u90	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u91	Today we are considering an important text, aimed at taxing the GAFAs. Of course, we would have liked this project to be bigger, stronger, and European. That was not possible. But we are honouring our commitments, and that is why we are acting at the national level. That's what counts! Mr Chassaigne, you are well aware that this text is only a first step; We will then defend this tax at the OECD. You also know that it does not end negotiations on the concept of permanent establishment or corporate tax. You and your colleagues spend your time saying that we are only making laws for the rich; Today, you have the opportunity to vote with us a law that will tax the rich, a law of tax justice! But no: you prefer to question yourself, and you had even originally tabled a motion to reject it beforehand! Where is the consistency of your actions? Whatever we do, it's never enough, nothing ever goes far enough: "water gun", "handicraft", "blowjob", you say. These arguments sound hollow! The majority will therefore vote against your motion for referral to committee, and vote on it. Too bad if you are not enough: the citizens, I am sure, will not be mistaken. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In essence, Mr Chassaigne, I thank you nevertheless: when I return to the Carmausin, my constituency, I can say to the mayor of Saint-Benoît-de-Carmaux, who is a communist, that when we, the deputies of the majority, defended this tax, you wanted to kick in!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u92	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u93	The defence of this motion for referral to committee was based on both articles of the text. With regard to Article 2, you refer, Mr Chassaigne, to a "gift" to companies. We cannot agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u95	Indeed, the Government is paying companies € 1.76 billion. This is a bad signal: not only are you going back to the corporate tax trajectory that was voted for, but these additional burdens, making them less competitive, are likely to put our businesses at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u96	It's class-to-class!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u97	As for Article 1, it raises a major question: we cannot accept that digital giants are organizing themselves to escape tax, or to choose the country in which the tax will be paid. This is a subject that needs to be addressed at European level, but above all at OECD level, i.e. at global level; We also heard from Mr Pascal Saint-Amans, Director of the OECD's Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, who confirmed that there were reflections at this level. It is regrettable that France is reduced to acting alone. But we have to move forward. MPs The Republicans had also proposed, during the discussion of the last finance bill, an amendment to tax the turnover of digital giants, as well as other very large companies. It is a reflection that must take place. Rule 1 is certainly perfectable, but we will not vote on this motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u98	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u99	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will obviously not vote on this motion for referral to committee. This text is a first step. Section 2 calls for the solidarity of large companies by maintaining the corporate tax rate, which should please you, Mr Chassaigne. Article 1e r seems to us to be well linked, if you will allow me the expression; It is innovative, and its proposed definition of permanent establishment can be adopted at European level. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas spoke of "botting in touch". I too want to speak rugby: sometimes you hesitate between the penal touch, which could lead to a hypothetical five- or seven-pointed trial, and the simple penalty, which would allow you to earn three points. Well, let's try the penalty, let's score points, because we're winning the game against these digital giants who don't pay their taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u100	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u101	This bill to create a GAFA tax is an important step for our Republican pact. Your text aims first of all at correcting a situation that persists: a number of digital giants do not pay corporate tax, or pay a very small amount in relation to their actual net income – I insist on this notion of real net income, since that is where the difficulty comes from. It then aims to correct a flaw that lets digital giants create value by using data for free without anyone ever asking them to pay anything. Your text therefore aims to respond to this double injustice: too little taxation and free use of users' personal data. As I said, we will vote on your bill. If the stage we are about to take is to be welcomed, I would like to remind you that we are not leaving a blank page. In December 2016, against the opinion of the Government – ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is an example that you could follow on occasion – we who were then MPs of the majority voted a tax called " YouTube", in fact a tax on advertising billed by the platforms. This vote was torn down by 12 votes to 11, so much pressure was placed on the deputies not to come to a public meeting or to vote in favour of this measure, so much the Government of that time had told us that everything had to be settled at the international level. Today, this tax pays 10 million euros to the state budget, while we were told in 2016 that if it allowed 1 million to be released, it would be the end of the world! It is a fight that must continue step after step; We won't win in a single run. This text comes, it was recalled, after the BEPS project of the OECD, which was extremely forerunner on this issue of the taxation of digital giants. Of course, it would have been preferable for an international agreement to be reached; But we're still waiting, we're not doing anything. That was the spirit of creating the YouTube tax. Your approach is the same, and I look forward to it. As of September 2017, it was also recalled that Europe – at the initiative of France, Germany, Italy and Spain – began to create a tax on digital giants. This idea was buried on 12 March because of the persistent opposition of countries such as Ireland, Denmark, Finland or Sweden, this sufficient opposition since unanimity is needed in the area of taxation. Despite this, five of the 28 EU countries are moving towards the creation of a digital services tax, including France, Spain, Austria, the United Kingdom and Italy. Some may also regret the application of a turnover tax. This is a degraded solution, it is true, but it is a necessary first step to remind large digital companies, particularly the GAFAs, that they cannot escape the sovereignty of States and Europe. If we approve of section 1, which creates this tax, we regret the presence in your bill of section 2, which is in disfavor to large companies, but also, more seriously, to SMEs and ITEs. Indeed, 542 companies with a turnover of between 250 million and 1 billion euros – which corresponds well to SMEs and ETIs – will see their corporate tax rates increase not only in relation to the trajectory you voted for, but also in relation to the trajectory we left you in 2017. They will pay more, in other words, than they would have paid if the legislation had not changed between the end of 2017 and today. The signal's not the right one. For these companies, the absence of a reduction in corporate tax, i.e. non-compliance with successively voted trajectories, amounts to €370 million in 2019. And do not come to explain to me that the transformation of the CEC into a reduction in contributions will compensate for anything: to confuse the cash flow with the net result is, I am sure, a mistake that no one would commit in this House, and certainly not the rapporteur-general of the budget. [[Boris Vallaud applauds]] We hope that our amendments will be adopted. But we will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u102	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u103	You said, minister: "I heard critics in very bad faith pretending that another tax base should have been retained. [...] Those who are honest – I know it's rare in our business – can say that they don't want digital taxation, so they don't want to tax turnover, but those who say that another base is possible don't know the file or lie to our fellow citizens. And you even dared to pretend that, since France announced the creation of this national tax, the work of the OECD had suddenly accelerated, and that an international agreement was emerging! You had to dare. Mr Minister, no country in the world defends even the idea of a turnover tax, and no other country in the European Union will create such a tax at national level. For, as your former Secretary of State for Digital Affairs – of which I note that the eviction was concomitant with his statements – said very well, "taxing GAFA's turnover is the worst solution." Moreover, Minister, it was obviously not the announcement of the introduction of the French tax that led to the OECD, but the convergence of American and Chinese interests to give users and consumers what is called a "market value". It is indeed the volte-face of the Americans, and their decision no longer to make territoriality and the place of production absolute principles of taxation, that has precipitated the timetable. Indeed, the Americans have a considerable advantage over us: as early as 2017, they undertook a profound tax reform, lowered corporate tax rates, adopted a minimum tax, and radically taxed diverted profits. Finally, in order to permanently solve the problems of basic erosion, whether in the physical world or in the digital world, they have accepted the principle that only a multilateral tool will complete this profound paradigm shift. The only real question is therefore: what is France's position on these issues that you yourself call majors? During your hearing before the Committee on European Affairs, you confirmed to us that a shift from the tax base would be "a strategic change whose impact in terms of tax revenues can be considerable", and that, if your services were to think well about the consequences of this move, to be very honest – you then witnessed the director of tax legislation, who was at your side – although "you have been working there for months", you were not "able to say what the tax impact of this choice is." You are thus quietly admitting that you still do not have the necessary elements to measure the consequences of such decisions and, thus, to clarify France's position – while the Chinese and Americans are very familiar with these consequences and have already made their choice. There are some serious reasons for vertigo, Minister. Especially when you draw the following conclusion: "for lack of another viable solution in the immediate future, we have retained turnover as the basis of digital taxation". CQFD: the intellectual demonstration is perfect... but totally above ground. You confirm that not only is France not ready, but that, because of your ego, demagogy and opportunism, you insist on refusing to take into account the 180-degree turn of the Americans to legitimize the introduction of a tax whose only valid justification was, at the outset, the very existence of the American veto and the need to implement the system at European level – which you failed to do. The world is changing at high speed, you know. Some understand it faster than others, show agility, take action, while others write books...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u104	Thank you for your elegance, Congresswoman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u105	Let's talk about yours... Books, I said, on the desire for "empire" and propose to us, in order to build it, an umpteenth national anti-economic and counter-productive tax; a tax which, by its very nature, will ultimately be passed on to economic actors and consumers; a tax whose legal and technical frailties accumulate. What we, the minister, want is to protect French and European digital companies that are virtuous so as not to hinder them further in international competition; protect consumers' purchasing power; Finally, protecting citizens through the introduction of sustainable taxation of companies at the international level – which is becoming possible again. You do not tell the French that with your turnover tax the global digital giants will continue not to pay taxes in France legally, that they will even pay them, for the most part, in the United States, while thirty of the French companies concerned will pay them and the tax and the tax. We are not agitating the fears as you have also criticized us for doing: on the contrary, we ask you to put France in pole position in the discussions that will take place within the framework of the OECD, whose first stage is planned in June and which open a real window of opportunity, expected for ten years. At the national level, we call on you to take economically relevant, fair and equitable measures to achieve effectively the objective you claim to pursue. We're offering you two. First, why not study the recovery of the exit tax introduced by Nicolas Sarkozy in 2011 and that you removed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u106	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u107	Our second proposal: a tax on misappropriated profits, inspired by the British model and which would complement our legal arsenal. You would follow Recommendation 26 of the information report by Bénédicte Peyrol and Jean-François Parigi on the international tax evasion of companies: "if negotiations on European projects linked to the taxation of the digital economy and the consolidated common base fail or fail, provide for the introduction into national law of a specific anti-abuse tax".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u108	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u109	For several months now, the La France insoumis group has advocated unilateral action to put an end to the tax racket organized by the so-called GAFA multinationals. In considering the draft law on the fight against fraud, we had already proposed measures to that effect; At the time, minister, you told us, in essence, "It's still too early, but you're going to see what you're going to see! Even if you look, you don't see much, actually. We would prefer to state this from the outset: this text does not seem to us to be up to the level of organized band robberies that these companies practice, of the aggressive capitalism that you also denounce. Because, instead of ensuring that these companies pay their fair share of tax – like everyone else – you propose that they pay a tax on the turnover they carry out on certain transactions in the provision of services. It is therefore less a tax than a form of amicable transaction in which the French Government, agreeing that it can do nothing against tax optimisation in the European Union, ends up accepting the practices of the GAFAs for a painless sum for them. What are we talking about, indeed? From a 3 % tax based on turnover drawn, I repeat, from certain digital activities. Multinationals such as McDonald's are ex officio exempt. The activities involved are targeted online advertising – which could affect a bit Facebook and Google, but much less Apple, Amazon or Microsoft, whose activities are mostly external to digital – and digital linking activities such as Airbnb. Your tax is a holed snowshoe. According to Attac's calculations, 64% of GAFAM's combined turnover would escape it: 74% of the turnover of the five leading digital companies – Google, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon – is hidden abroad and the amount of French turnover relocated to tax havens or to tax-aggressive countries would be more than €9.4 billion. Attac adds that the amount of corporate tax that GAFAMs would have had to pay in 2017 had their total profits been reported in France to be more than 600 million euros, more than six times the amount that the tax you propose would have allowed you to recover. Finally, taxing turnover does not correspond to any economic logic: we should instead tax the profit actually realized in France, by obliging companies to declare the profits of their subsidiaries country by country. We have tabled several amendments to this effect, inspired by economist Gabriel Zucman. If you do not do this, you condemn France to run behind multinationals and their lobbys. With this tax, you're pretending to defend SMEs against big companies while you're just scratching the GAFAs, leaving behind a lot of big companies. Basically, you're kind of pretending to oppose the GAFA. There's one thing I don't understand, or rather I'm afraid to understand too well: if France decides to unilaterally tackle GAFA tax optimisation and avoidance – an approach that I can only support – why do it at a discount? Since we do not expect the rest of the European Union, why not open the way to it in a much more voluntary way? The answer doubtless depends on the European Union as it stands: to act, the question of tax havens should be settled once and for all, starting with the most effective ones, that is, those that the Union – Malta, Cyprus, the Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland – is home to. Why are these digital companies reporting only a quarter of their actual activity on French territory? Because they will be domiciled in more favourable countries, particularly in Ireland, while benefiting from the free trade treaty to which the European treaties are equivalent, which allow and even promote tax dumping and, consequently, the policies of the so-called tax-free. That is why we say that if we really want to put an end to tax dumping and tackle the scourge of the possibility for companies to play dominoes from one country to another, we must get out of the treaties that allow for, facilitate, tax dumping. In fact, we find this so-called tax in the Prime Minister's words this morning: when the French say "tax justice", he pretends to hear "tax cuts".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u111	Here it is, the question of substance: you want to align yourself with the other countries. On December 17, 2018, during the re-reading of the 2019 Finance Bill, your majority removed an article introduced by the Senate on the initiative of Senator Marie-Noëlle Lienemann that was intended to tax GAFAs on their profits. In this debate, we will defend an amendment similar to the one that obtained a large majority in the Senate and, frankly, the way in which you welcome it will depend on the direction of our vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u112	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u113	Minister, you told us last week in committee that the digital services tax had nothing to do with tax evasion, that this bill was in no way intended to combat tax evasion. But how can we deal with this text, not to mention tax evasion? Whether you like it or not, tax avoidance or optimisation is at the heart of the subject we are dealing with today. In fact, how else can we explain the unacceptable tax gap between our SMEs, who pay 23% of taxes, and multinationals, who pay 9% of them through tax havens such as Ireland and the Netherlands, where they relocate their profits? We cannot therefore approach this debate with the little bit of the lorgnette, let alone tax evasion. The GAFAs are the tree that hides the forest. Well, we want to attack ourselves and the tree and the forest. I'll start with the forest. The forest of tax evasion is first of all states, tax havens that do not play the game of tax cooperation: to attract capital, and even dirty money, they practice almost zero tax rates. Tax evasion is the cancer of Europe, the evil that gnaws our economies. By refusing to attack you, to put these countries on a blacklist of tax havens, you accept this tax dumping, this unbridled race to the lowest tax rates. A glimmer of hope, however, has come to light recently when the European Parliament adopted a report highlighting seven states that have the characteristics of a tax haven: Belgium, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands. Let us take this into account: three of the six founding States of the European Union are on the list; three founding members of the EU are tax havens. There's still something wrong! This question should be at the heart of the answers to the big debate, as well as of the campaign of the European elections, since because of these countries there is a shortage of EUR 1000 billion in the budgets of the states. Of course, you can count on the Communists to make it their priority in this campaign. After the forest, I come to the tree: the content of the bill. [[Smile]] The base that you have chosen for the GAFA tax concerns the only digital companies: exits the other multinationals who also practice the devastating game of tax optimisation – Renault and its subsidiary in the Netherlands, LVMH in Malta, PPR and its activity in Luxembourg, Nike, McDonald's, Starbucks, etc. Even Pascal Saint-Amans, Director of the Centre for Tax Policy and Administration at the OECD, agreed that this base was not very large. I've already told you, it's not a plate, it's a saucer – what do I say, a cardboard subbock! We therefore propose to extend the tax to multinationals to cover all companies that relocate their profits to tax havens. Then your tax, with its modest 3%, remains very low. It does not undermine the transfer of massive profits by all these multinationals. Here are the figures, different depending on whether they come from the police or the trade unions: according to the OECD – the "police" – the relocation of profits to tax havens causes France to lose between 2.4 and 6 billion euros each year. According to English economists, the figure could rise to 9 billion euros per year. And, according to trade unions – public finance – the loss of profits for France would be between 20 and 30 billion euros. In short, on the basis of an average estimate of EUR 15 billion of fraud, your tax would allow the French tax to recover only 3% of what the multinationals steal from us, since it will only bring back EUR 500 million: a straw! Worse: What is taken on one side, you return it on the other, since you allow the GAFAs to deduct the tax from their taxes. At first, we didn't believe it; It was true! So, basically, these companies pay a tax, but can deduct it from their taxes, which were already very low. Tomorrow, they will pay 0% taxes when our SMEs continue to pay 23%. The GAFA tax, or "great tax scam announced"! Deductible from taxes, small rate, small base: the communists will call it the peanut tax, because it will only bring back peanuts! Minister, you can do all the communication operations of the world – you are very strong in this matter – and say that your tax will raise 2 billion euros by 2022; We will tell you that, by 2022, 60 billion euros – four times 15 billion euros – will be missing in the state budget because of the transfers of profits in tax havens. [[Smile]] Yes, minister, your GAFA tax is a big communication operation. You will talk about it every day by describing it as the Government's great measure of fiscal justice, when in fact it is the tree that hides the forest. All you do is manage to fill a foam bath with three small pieces of soap. It's com! [[Smile]] That's why we suggest you go much further, hit harder, because there are clicks that get lost! Our amendments meet this objective, not only by extending the base to other activities, but also by increasing the tax rate. Why not set it at 5%, as Austria does, instead of 3%? Why don't you plan a progressive scale, as you imagined for a while? On the other hand, there are other, more proactive, avenues. I am thinking, for example, of the recognition in our law of the concept of digital permanent establishment, or of the introduction of a minimum tax rate. These proposals, made by the OECD, are on the table. Another proposal from economists and applied in some countries: why don't you draw the profits of multinationals at source, as we suggested in a bill? This proposal, already put forward in this House, was even chosen among the thirty proposals of the auditors of Jean-Jacques Bourdin, on RMC, in the framework of the great debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u114	It's a reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u115	Let me turn to section 2 on the freezing of the corporate tax reduction, which was to reduce the income tax rate from 33.3% to 25%. You propose to freeze the decrease in corporate tax; We offer you absolutely to cancel it, simply, because it is not fair. This tax reduction is a new gift to finance, which will mainly benefit the business community, banks, large businesses, but not small ones. Don't make us believe otherwise! This tax cut will cost us one arm, 11.2 billion euros from 2023 onwards. However, France is already one of the OECD countries with the lowest corporate tax returns – 25% below average. What a bad use of public money! A quarter of this tax reduction will mainly benefit the financial sector, which does not really need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u117	It should be recalled here: multinationals such as Google, Apple and Amazon are affected by the CICE and benefit from Fillon charges exemptions on low wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u118	The CICE doesn't exist anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u119	Exemptions from social security contributions exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u120	With your policy, they will no longer pay social contributions for employees paid to the SMIC, and almost more for those paid up to twice the SMIC. Even the Google leaders I met told me, embarrassed, that they would prefer not to touch the CICE but that they could not refuse it! Frankly, your reduction in taxes for the big multinationals is still a nice gift you give to these big companies, of which the forty largest paid a record dividend of €57.4 billion. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Minister, your policy is a real capitalist policy, in the noble sense of the term, because it favours capital and not labour. With you, capital has never brought back so much to those who hold it, the financiers, the class of the rich. Today, he earns much more than work. The gifts you give to the rich are paid by the workers, the middle classes and the popular classes. This is the opposite: to tax capital more heavily and to revalue work. You can count on the Communists to defend this economic model, which favours human beings and the planet rather than capital and business banks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u121	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u122	The meeting was resumed. Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u123	Let's look at two numbers for a moment: 95 billion euros on the one hand, 14 million euros on the other. The first corresponds to Google's global turnover in 2017 – it would be more than 121 billion euros in 2018. The second is the amount of tax paid by this multinational in France in the same year. These figures, which speak for themselves, highlight the fact that our tax systems are overtaken by the digitisation of the economy. Corporate tax is largely circumvented. Larger companies operate in one country by being established in another, preferably with preferential or complacent taxation. In early 2019, we learned that the Google company – still it – was fond of a tax package called "Dutch Irish Double Sandwich", which allows it to pass some of its results through a series of front companies domiciled in Ireland, Singapore, Bermuda and the Netherlands – all in order to reduce its tax bill, of course. The circumvention of large digital companies, GAFAs, has been quantified: according to estimates by the European Commission, their tax level represents on average only 8.5% to 10.1% of their profits in the European Union, whereas this rate reaches 20.9% to 23.2% for conventional companies. These aggressive optimisation practices, which legitimately shock opinions, raise the question of adapting tax legislation to digital content. It is more than necessary to continue efforts towards greater fiscal convergence at European and global level. As we have said on many occasions, this convergence is the minimum requirement for a fair functioning of the European Union. This is not only an economic and political issue, but also a moral one, since equality before taxes is an essential foundation of our democratic system. Initiatives have emerged, but so far they have failed or remained untapped. I am thinking, for example, of the abortive project of taxation on digital services, carried out by the European Commission under the impetus of a few Member States. In this regard, I welcome the efforts made by France, in particular by the Minister. However, these efforts have not been sufficient to avoid failure, mainly due to reluctance on the part of some States to engage in practices similar to tax dumping. More than 100 countries are currently negotiating, under the auspices of the OECD, under an agreement concluded on 29 January 2019, with a view to fairer taxation of multinationals by 2020. We fervently hope that these negotiations will result, thus replacing a global agreement with this national tax, by provisional definition. Looking forward to a possible continental or global compromise, would we be forced to see our impotence? We don't think so. That is why we look kindly at clause 1 of this bill. Indeed, the status quo is no longer tenable. The creation of a digital services tax meets a need for tax justice, particularly between businesses. In this connection, it is worth pointing out that Italy, the United Kingdom, Spain and Austria are considering the creation of a similar tax, proof that awareness is on the way. In the United States, the recent tax reform has created tools to encourage US multinationals, not just in the digital field, to repatriate a share of their profits earned abroad. Although this bill is a strong political signal, it is important – it is our responsibility as a legislator – to create a tax that is both fair and effective. It is precisely the implementation of this commitment that is problematic. Among the shortcomings of the proposed scheme, we can mention the lack of international scope, as well as the choice to place the TSN on turnover. Indeed, we find it difficult to distinguish the digital component of the latter, with the exception of other activities. It would have been wiser to tax profits. Questions also remain as to how turnover falls within the scope of the tax. What about advertising targeting, data sales, networking? This probably implies cooperation by the GAFAs, which seems to be at least uncertain. Beyond the political signal you intend to send with this bill, it is crucial that the results be tangible. Otherwise, these measures would be counterproductive: they would undermine your credibility on the international stage and have a negative impact on public opinion. It is important to provide answers to questions related to the fair taxation of digital activities, including those related to the sale of data. The tax base remains unsatisfactory, since digital giants are not the only companies that want to escape the common effort. In this regard, this text cannot be considered as an instrument to combat international tax avoidance or optimisation. It focuses the debate on an important aspect of tax avoidance, but forgets the other forms of circumvention. We regret that your bill targets only a few dozen companies, without responding structurally and sustainably to the global and considerable challenge of tax avoidance. Finally, the fundamental question is the territorial distribution of tax: how to tax wealth where it is created? Your bill provides a partial answer to this decisive question. As for Article 2, it seems to have been inserted into this legislative vehicle for adoption in catimini. Through it, the Government is in part returning to one of its commitments. Despite the caution of the vocabulary, this article alters the downward trajectory of corporate tax, initiated under the previous quinquennium, prolonged and even accentuated by the current majority. This reversal is skilfully introduced into a bill whose main measure is much more media, while section 2 should report four times as much as the TSN. The freezing of the reduction in corporate tax is limited to companies with a turnover of more than EUR 250 million or more for the fraction of profits exceeding EUR 500000. All right! However, this measure is contrary to the Government's commitment to tax visibility. You say this is a temporary measure. We'd like to be sure. Article 2 is intended to finance, in part, the emergency measures adopted last December. It should be recalled that this expenditure will also weigh in 2020 and 2021, and that it was not foreseen in the path of the stability programme, with the exception of the exemption for the exceptional premium. Therefore, how will these measures be financed for the years 2020 and 2021? The question remains. The reduction in corporate taxes must remain a priority of the legislature. The Libertés et territoires group, however, proposes an alternative: to increase corporate tax on large companies, we prefer the definition of a floor rate to combat tax optimisation practices and to pursue a credible tax policy for companies. Indeed, economic vitality is based on trust, and trust is gained through stability – the minister has explained it to us many times. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Here, in a few words, is our general feeling about this text: France's action on the international stage to bring about a new world tax order inspires us to benevolence. With this in mind, the tax created by this text is a first step, albeit imperfect, in the right direction, despite the questions which remain as to its effectiveness and the disputes which it might cause. The same is not true of article 2, both in substance and in terms of the method chosen by the Government, since the latter subreptitiously returns to a commitment made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u124	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u125	On behalf of the Republic on the move, I express our support for this bill and its two clauses. A few words, first, on article 2. We have charted a downward trend in corporate tax rates as early as the 2018 Finance Bill, and we are continuing this trend. We keep the rate falling for the vast majority of French companies, especially for SMEs, some of which already benefit from a reduced rate, while the others will benefit fully from the fall in the common law rate. The purpose of Article 2 is to postpone the reduction of the corporate tax rate for larger companies by a few months. We ask them to contribute to the financing of the social and purchasing power measures announced by the President of the Republic last December. The representatives of the large French companies took note of this measure for 2019, during which the CICE's contribution and profit will be reduced. By this temporary measure, we therefore maintain our responsible budget line, while accentuating certain redistribution mechanisms. I now turn to Article 1, which introduces the digital services tax. This tax, resulting from the French proposals discussed in the international bodies, aims to establish a tax based on the new models of value creation or on the new economic models known as "bifaces" or "multifaces", theorized by the Nobel Prize in Economics Jean Tirole, with which I once had the opportunity to work precisely on this topic. Let me make some historical reminders to clarify the origin of this tax. The taxation of corporate profits was severely eroded in the 2000s. States have witnessed the flight of taxable bases through the relocation of profits to permissive or low-tax countries. The emerging digital economy has taken full advantage of these optimisation opportunities, thanks to the dematerialization of the new services provided. Our international tax system, based on a traditional industrial economy and post-war models of tax treaties, has proved to be insufficient in a globalized world of trade, financial and banking deregulation, and the digitization of the economy. This situation and its disastrous effects on state public finances prompted the OECD to draw up a finding in order to propose a plan to attack the G20. France has provided massive support to the OECD plan as of 2012. The BEPS project, comprising 15 actions, was formalised in 2013. I would like to pay special tribute to the role of Pascal Saint-Amans, who has worked hard with his teams to identify optimization mechanisms and find new regulations. The first action of the BEPS project is precisely "to meet the tax challenges posed by the digital economy". The digital economy is far from being the only one to practice fiscal optimisation, but the transformation of the economy and the striking strength of these new giants required urgent action. The digital services tax is a tool for finally initiating a specific taxation of this sector and its major players. This tax will affect the major players in the digital sector, those whose turnover generated by taxable digital services exceeds 25 million in France and 750 million in the world. The French state therefore takes its responsibilities and assumes its sovereign prerogatives to raise taxes on major players – some thirty, mostly non-European, according to Bercy's projections. Taxable services will be targeted advertising and intermediation services. In committee, we have consolidated the right to take over and specified the operative event and the statute of limitations. We clarified the base so as not to undermine the CNC's revenue, which collects a tax on free video platforms. We have specified the treatment of ad-exchanges, as we call automated platforms for selling and buying advertising spaces on the Internet. The BEPS project is taking its course in the digital field. I want to reassure my colleagues on the left and on the right: this tax obviously does not solve everything! In fact, new global rules on territoriality will be discussed, notably in Fukuoka in June 2019. That is why we have adopted an amendment providing for enhanced monitoring of this tax along the water, resulting in the submission of an annual report by the Government. This will enable us to draw the consequences of future multilateral progress. In 2019, the TSN cannot solve all the problems related to the taxation of large digital groups. But we are reconstructing the various pieces of the puzzle of immaterial taxation to avoid leaving holes in it. After the work of French Commissioner Pierre Moscovici in support of this taxation, European Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, who has been fighting valiantly and sustainably, throughout her mandate, against the distortions of competition enjoyed by the giants of the net, spoke this morning on the air to welcome the initiative of France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The majority will therefore vote in favour of this tax, which helps to strengthen France's sovereignty, and in the long run, we hope, the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u126	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u127	First of all, let me recall the promise you made, Minister, to the representatives of the nation in this House on November 16, 2017, during the consideration of the 2018 Finance Bill. At the time, you were committed to reducing the corporate tax rate from 33.3% to 25% across the quinquennium, a reduction in tax charges of more than EUR 11 billion for businesses. On November 23, 2017, you reiterated before senators the solemn commitment to reinvigorate French companies asphyxiated by the burdens on their competitiveness. With your hand on your heart, you promised to reduce the corporate tax rate to 28%, as of 2018, on the fraction of profits below 500,000 euros; for all profits, this rate would be reduced to 31 per cent in 2019, 28 per cent in 2020, 26.5 per cent in 2021 and 25 per cent in 2022. Unfortunately, sixteen months will have been enough to betray the confidence of companies and to reverse your promise. By offering a rate different from the one originally planned for 2019, you are not content to deviate from your trajectory. In total, you create an additional €1.76 billion in taxes. Of course, last week you said to the Finance Committee that your turnaround was only a cyclical change linked to the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in long-term burdens and that the promise of a 25% rate by 2022 would be fulfilled. However, the CICE's argument is not valid because the impact of its transformation was well known before last December. How do you think you're speaking when just a year and a half after your first statement, you're still asking for a new effort from companies with a turnover of more than 250 million euros? Not all of these companies are multinationals or large groups of CAC 40, far from it! How can our business leaders believe you when you have refused to reaffirm before the Finance Committee that the tax rate continues to run at 28% in 2020 and 26.5% in 2021? The credibility of the State and the President of the Republic is at stake. Needless to say, public spending has increased by 44 billion euros in two years and debt has continued to flow – it has increased by an additional 150 billion euros to reach the record level of 2315 billion as of December 31, 2018. To the extent that you do not make any effort to reduce public spending, you choose the only alternative option: continue to increase taxes. At a time when the deficit in our trade balance stands at almost EUR 60 billion, compared with EUR 280 billion in Germany's surplus, your ministry's tax inconclusiveness is deadly. If you don't offer visibility about the future, you kill in the egg any hope of competitiveness. So, at the turn of a text on digital taxation, you return to one of your commitments, to the detriment of our country's competitiveness. I come to clause 1 of the bill, which focused the attention of the observers, probably to better overshadow your manoeuvre in clause 2. We share your goal of putting the digital mastodons that are GAFAs at a fairer level of taxation. It is a question of fairness in the face of taxes, while tax evasion rightly revolts our compatriots. It is also a budgetary necessity, knowing that our level of deficit is the laughing stock of Europe. Better taxation of digital giants is essential, as it is inconceivable and unbearable that these multinationals are subject to a much lower average tax rate than traditional companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u128	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u129	Be careful, however, not to fall into the caricature of thinking that GAFAs would totally evade tax. Things are still changing: since the tax reform in the United States in 2017, when its profits abroad are taxed at less than 13.125%, a multinational now has to pay the difference in the United States. It is therefore a real weapon against tax havens. Having made this clarification, we, like you, would like to review the rules governing the taxation of digital giants. The Republicans Group had also been a pioneer in this area, since it had proposed a turnover tax during the examination of the 2019 finance bill. However, we have real reservations about the method and modalities that you have chosen. Several questions need to be asked in this regard. First question: why is France today forced to make very isolated progress on this subject? As you well know, this national fee is ultimately a default fee, a withdrawal fee for lack of better. To be effective, such a tax should be introduced at least at European or even international level at the OECD level. France is obliged to go alone, because the executive has not been able to reach an agreement with our partners in the European Union. This is a failure of France in the discussions, for which the Government bears full responsibility – he had assured us for a long time that he would reach an agreement. What then, Minister, about your refusal to include the transitional nature of the tax in the marble of the law pending the possible creation of an OECD-wide tax? This stubborn refusal is illogical, as it is likely to hinder the possibility of finding an effective solution at the international level. You yourself say – and you have just repeated it here – that this tax will have to be provisional. However, it is a long-term tax that you propose with this text, since you reject the amendments by which we propose to include in the law that it is of a transitional nature. The second, essential question: will this GAFA tax achieve its objective? The answer is unfortunately nuanced, because it is not a GAFA tax, but, in reality, a much wider tax on digital activities. It will therefore not be possible to separate the right grain from the tare. Created to sanction the least virtuous, it will also apply to companies that do not make tax optimisation. Let us beware of the effects of the law, which could penalise French florets such as Crito or Deliveroo. Moreover, if French start-ups are not affected by this new tax, it sends them a very unfavourable signal, because it is absolutely not targeted. While France lacks precisely " unicorns", these companies whose valuation exceeds one billion euros, do we really want to discourage the investment of traditional companies in digital transformation? I have tabled an amendment proposing that the new tax be charged on corporate taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u130	In that case, it won't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u131	The aim is to avoid a double penalty for French companies which are already subject to high tax rates and pay taxes in France. By accepting this amendment, Minister, you will demonstrate that your goal is more tax justice than performance. If you refuse, however, you will show that you are not looking to tax our French companies less. Let us take an example: if a French company achieves a net profit of 10% before tax – this figure is high, but I chose a simple case – that is, a net result of 6.66% after tax, then the digital services tax, whose rate is set at 3% of turnover, will represent 30% of the income before tax and 20% of the income after tax. With such a mechanism, Minister, you will create a tax that will lead to an on-board effect for French companies. In my example, these will be subject to a total tax of 53.33 per cent – which is more than 50 per cent – resulting from the addition of the company tax of 33.33% and the digital services tax, which will represent 20 per cent of the after-tax income. I very much hope that my amendment will be taken into account, because it would avoid putting our French companies into difficulty, which we must support, Minister. Third question: Who will ultimately pay this tax? It is very likely, alas, that it will finally be passed on to the end of the chain. Who's there? It is, as we know, the final consumer. In fact, you recognized it here a few moments ago, Minister, while pointing out that this effect would probably be marginal. Nevertheless, this point deserves to be noted. You see, Minister, many questions arise. And I do not mention those that relate to the cost of management and control, which remain unanswered. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We hope that the debate will enlighten us and that you will listen to some of our proposals. I am thinking in particular of our amendments to put an end to this French digital tax as soon as an agreement is reached at the OECD level or to ensure that we do not impose an additional tax on French companies that pay their taxes in France, because that is not, I believe, the objective you have announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u132	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u133	Here we come together to validate a government tax commitment that meets the expectations of our fellow citizens expressed in the context of the big debate: taxing the digital giants. These companies make considerable profits by exploiting the personal data of our fellow citizens and escape, because of the absence of permanent establishment in our country, the tax on the companies to which all other companies are liable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u134	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u135	Mr. Chassaigne recalled earlier, there is currently a gap of 14 points between the taxation of companies established in France and that of these digital giants, while the former create non-relocationable jobs. This text therefore addresses both a need for tax justice and a need for equity between businesses. In addition, it will fund the public services our compatriots need. What is proposed to be taxed is the turnover of intermediation, i.e. the service provided by a company to a user located in France. This scope will be defined by Article 299 of the General Tax Code, introduced by the following paragraphs of Article 1: "A tax shall be imposed on sums received by undertakings in the digital sector... irrespective of their place of establishment. It is clear what the scope of these provisions is. The tax would therefore be payable by companies "located in France and abroad". The system is thus based on the territoriality of value creation. The tax base would consist of the global profits of the company concerned, in proportion to the value created in France. As for the collection of the tax, it would rely on computer data extractions to target the undertakings concerned if one of the two parties was located in France. To be innovative, these provisions respect the main principles of constitutional and European law. The bill we are looking at is indeed innovative from a legal point of view. Firstly, it anticipates the adoption of a European directive defended by France; We expect it to be adopted by 2021. Secondly, it seeks to introduce a new objective criterion, the validity of which has been recognised by the Conseil d'État, namely the taxation of profits realized on a consumer supplier of value located in France. It is the territorial origin of value creation that will be the criterion of taxation. Thirdly, this 3% tax is expected to raise EUR 500 million under the cruise regime, which will help finance the measures in favour of the most modest ones voted in the context of the major debate. With regard to Article 2, which provides for deferring the reduction in corporate tax for large companies with a turnover of more than 250 million euros, it is the counterpart of the Act of 24 December 2018 on economic and social emergency measures. Large companies will be involved in 2019 in the name of national solidarity, amounting to €1.7 billion. All these measures will bring a total of almost 3 billion to the state budget. Some ask us to wait before adopting these provisions. However, we have the right to legislate at national level in this area, as many of our neighbours, Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom and Austria, have already done. Moreover, as soon as an international agreement is reached, it will replace this national provision. It may also be amended if the European Directive is adopted and requires additional measures. Innovation is not prohibited from a legal point of view. This is the meaning of the Council of State's opinion, which pointed out that the thresholds for taxable turnover, set at 750 million euros in global digital turnover and 25 million euros in turnover in France, would not create a marked break in equality before public charges and that there was no manifest error of assessment in the scheme. Indeed, "two companies that would have the same taxable turnover in France could be regarded as being in a different situation, depending on whether their global digital activity is more or less important, since these companies would not then derive an identical value from their French digital activity". Neither the territorial scope of the tax, nor its base, rate, or entry into force on January 1, 2019 are problematic. Assessed through the prism of European law, the scheme would not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or an obstacle to freedom of establishment. It does not tend to create any direct distinction on the basis of the nationality of the debtors, since the nationality of the undertakings is determined by the place of their seat. In addition, the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed in a judgment of 22 November 2018 that "measures whose only effect is to generate additional costs for the provision in question and which affect the provision of services between Member States and the provision of services within a Member State are not covered by Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union". On the other hand, the proposed mechanism is secure because, even if the tax were to be considered to fall within the scope of the bilateral tax treaties, it would not constitute a ground for legal invalidity. Where appropriate, it could not be charged to taxpayers who are not established in France or do not have a permanent establishment there. Finally, to those who are concerned that the prices of digital services will rise, I would remind you that this tax will not affect the trading of digital products and will therefore not affect their final price. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to adopt an innovative tool, which responds to a need for tax justice expressed by our fellow citizens and which is based on a tax architecture that is certainly original but solid in terms of constitutional law and European law. That is why the MODEM Group supports the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Nevertheless, we would like the text to be improved on two points, and we have tabled amendments to that effect. The first is to ensure that national representation is informed of the pace of the work of the OECD and of the time when the international solution, if any, would take the place of the turnover tax. The second is to introduce a minimum corporate tax rate, which is in line with one of your proposals, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u136	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u137	This is obviously the other case of the century, vile and insidious. Aggressive tax optimisation corrupts everything, undermines states, instills suspicion, feeds inequalities to unsustainable levels, weakens our social models and ultimately devours the future. The tax havens of some are the hell of all the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u138	Nice formula!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u139	When the world's greatest fortunes and multinationals do not pay their taxes, when the little ones pay for the big ones, sometimes with the guilty complicity of the states, the billions lack education, the environment, health. We're here. The house burns and we give the feeling of looking elsewhere. For several years, various initiatives have been launched at European Union level to tax more precisely the profits of multinationals. This is, of course, the most relevant step for action. Today, however, the European Union is at a standstill on these initiatives. That is why, Mr Minister, you have decided to tax the GAFAs in France, and I would like to welcome this progress. As the chair of our group, Valérie Rabault, said, we will vote on the bill. However, you have to tell yourself: the prevailing feeling is that your proposal is bogged down, because it is limited to the digital sector, as if tax optimisation was not the best shared practice of multinationals. It's not a sector that doesn't do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u140	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u141	In 2016, US companies recorded more profits in Ireland than in China, Japan, Mexico, Germany and France combined. And out of these strenuous profits, they paid only the derisory rate of 5.7%. Every year, 40% of the profits of multinational corporations are artificially transferred to tax havens: 600 billion taxable basic dollars escape the states, 20% of the proceeds of corporate tax are missing from the European Union, and 5 billion from France's budget. That is why we are calling on you, Minister, to ask the Government to make one more effort. Let us not let multinationals mock states and do their law to the detriment of the law. Just now, you have found the words to say the dirty reality of tax optimisation, but your bill is a little short, and I'm afraid the words won't end up a little hollow. This case is all our business. Collectively, we must not give the feeling of a balance of any account. That is why, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I tabled an amendment, co-edited with Gabriel Zucman, which tends to address this issue by reforming the definition of the corporate tax base. Under the amendment, each company selling goods or services in France for an amount exceeding EUR 100 million would become subject to corporate tax in France, whether or not it owns a permanent establishment. Taxable profits would be calculated by multiplying the group's consolidated global profits by the fraction of its global sales in France. To put it more simply, the principle of this reform is that multinationals pay their taxes where they earn their turnover. As this reform requires a renegotiation of international tax treaties, we have planned an interim period until 2028. With the objection that it will be difficult to renegotiate the tax treaties, I reply that it is possible to renegotiate the main tax treaties within ten years. During this period, the profits realized in France calculated in the state of the law would remain fully taxed in France if they were higher than those resulting from the application of the proposed new rules. These new rules would allow, under domestic law, to tax the additional profits currently taxable abroad as the tax treaties concerned renegotiate. We are opposed to the risk of double taxation. I claim that it is a matter of avoiding double non-taxation, as long as the tax treaties are reviewed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u142	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u143	In order to respond to an objection that you have made, Mr Minister, I would point out that, for the turnover distribution key, the proposed reform only applies in France, we have not made the choice to include payroll or capital, in order to avoid any incentive to relocate. In conclusion, minister, I will come back to some of your remarks. A few months ago, you said it was complicated to tax multinationals only in France. You're doing it today. A few weeks ago, you said in the Chamber that multinationals had to pay their taxes where they made their turnover. A few days ago, as I had the opportunity to say in the Finance Committee, I read in the pen of great Macronian thinkers a tribute to the work of economist Gabriel Zucman: Mr Emelien and Mr Amiel seemed to be plebiscite the proposal that I am making to you today. That is why I do not despair of convincing you in this debate. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] Fighting for social justice and for the rearmament of states clearly calls for more than a GAFA tax. One more effort for our children to never tell us: "You seemed to be doing it; Actually, you pretended! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u144	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u145	Today we are considering a bill that could make sense and respond to the demand of our fellow citizens for greater tax justice. Mediatically, it could look like a GAFA tax project, these digital giants that would not pay enough taxes in France. However, Article 1 creates a tax on all digital services, which does not seem to affect the GAFA in a particularly significant way in view of its base and its yield, estimated at just 400 million euros for some 30 obliging groups. This tax is not a tax on tax justice applicable to the GAFA, but a tax on the digital economy, the scope of which is questionable. Taxing companies that operate in our territory but avoid paying taxes is commendable; However, this good intention must in no way be to the detriment of all companies that comply with our tax rules and pay the taxes that are charged to them. It is therefore very important to ensure that this tax will not lead to double taxation, which would then only benefit from the strengthening of the largest players in the sector. Mr. Minister, rapporteur, the digital services tax would be easy to implement. However, the only calculation of digital turnover, therefore linked only to the three activities subject to the tax, presupposes a very fine breakdown of the turnover of the different activities of the groups with a turnover of 25 million euros in France and 750 million euros worldwide. To this breakdown is added a mechanism of location of users, different according to the type of digital activity and not requiring the same type of information. The share of income linked to the national territory will be calculated on the basis of world income, to which a numerical presence coefficient will be applied in France. This coefficient will be determined in proportion to the French users active on the service. How will the French tax administration be able to obtain these data, which are not necessarily kept by the companies themselves?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u146	And how will she be able to verify them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u147	Moreover, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – considers that the entry into force of the tax on 1 January 2019 will be impossible, since the processing of the data, necessary for the calculation of the tax, cannot take place before the entry into force of the law. That is why we will propose that you postpone the date of entry into force of the digital services tax you wish to introduce. This postponement is also justified by the ongoing negotiations at the OECD level. This work at the global level has resumed for several months, not because France threatens to introduce its own tax in the absence of a European or global agreement, but because our partners wanted to resume their discussions. Negotiations must continue and be concluded at OECD level, if not at European level. It seems to us better to continue these discussions by providing that, indeed, a Franco-French tax will apply if – and only if – no agreement is reached by 2021. If you apply this Franco-French tax now, what is the point of continuing to discuss with others? At a minimum, in order to continue these discussions, it is necessary to provide in the text that the French-French tax will cease automatically as soon as an agreement at OECD level is implemented. Before I conclude, I will say a few words about section 2, which goes back to the downward trajectory of the corporate tax rate that you yourself defined. What to say? The arms fall to us, Minister, when we see you thus eliminating the beneficial effects of trusting and tax predictability for businesses. We all know that fiscal stability is an essential element to sustain growth and boost the various economic sectors, as well as those that reinvest. Article 2 is simply regrettable for our economy. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] This tax bill, which should have been the subject of a finance bill, is a source of concern to us that you are looking for a symbolic and media remedy, which poses legal risks to our country and will have significant economic consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u148	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u149	Both on GAFA and on the industrial issue, the Government is struggling with its powerlessness. You resign yourself to a minimal action and even seem destitute in the face of the greed and immorality of the digital giants. You submit to blackmail the famous flight of capital, the outcome of which is never seen, except the deepening of inequalities and a more devastating consumerism every day. For too long, the public authorities have been giving way to tax and social justice, while the latter should be the foundation, the engine of our Republic. The fight against the model that the GAFA want us to impose requires us to get out of this political torpor. Are we going to end up like Denmark, which recently opened an embassy in Silicon Valley, believing that Google, Amazon and Facebook are new nations? Are we going to take this path towards a society where the sovereignty of the peoples disappears behind the financial interests, where freedom disappears behind the frantic liberalism of certain groups that build their power on the plundering of our data? I want to believe that it is not too late, but I see that the power in place has absolutely not taken the measure of the necessary change of political course. When Bercy offers data from millions of French to Google, when Elysée relays its communication, how can we not see your tax, the one that is submitted to us today, as an artifice, almost a simple element of language? When we see what we give to multinationals every year via the different tax niches and the CICE, which even affects a large group like Apple, when we see what we can't recover – the 9.4 billion euros that the GAFAMs relocate each year from France to tax havens – we think that this tax is only a yellow coin in an ocean of notes, notes that are always for the most powerful and that are never paid to the common pot. The introduction of a European-wide tax on digital services has obviously failed, because it contradicts the fundamental logics enshrined in the European Treaties. As for the Government's ambition, it has gradually, and almost immediately, been reduced as a matter of grief. First announced at 5% of turnover and then at a modified rate, the tax is finally presented to us at 3%. It does not even cover the full turnover of enterprises. As a bonus, its amount must be deducted from the corporate tax base. I am telling you frankly, minister: that is not reasonable. Yesterday, the Attac movement published quite illuminating figures: the GAFAMs, on average, conceal 74% of their turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u150	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u151	They bathe in financial opacity with the assurance of the dominant. They produce standards, confront states, disregard our founding principles such as equality before taxes, but also others that should hold you to heart like the basic rules of competition. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that Google pays more fines than taxes to the European Union? That's probably what you think is reasonable, minister. Perhaps we should warn its managers that a public finance centre is set up right in front of the company's Paris headquarters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u152	In the 8th arrondissement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u153	[[Smile]] Combling with contempt, we're wiped out the sarcasm of the GAFA lobby. Not only inform us that the cost of the tax will be passed on not to those who earn the profits, but to the users and SMEs, the association of the digital and computer industry writes without fail: "No one really knows how Bercy will do to control the tax revenues associated with this tax. No doubt they have heard of the approximately 2300 posts that the Government will abolish this year in the Directorate-General for Public Finance. If the internet is populated with kittens, the GAFAs look like lions. Finally, I would like to point out to our assembly that with this tax, only clopinettes will be put to the common pot; Indeed, it is estimated that it will raise EUR 400 million. This sum is a joke in terms of the €5 billion that the ISF reported or the advertising revenues generated by the GAFAs. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will vote in conscience, but I just want to remind you that these large groups are only strong because you make us weak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u154	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u155	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u156	While tax optimisation is based on legal bases, it has the same effects as tax fraud. Escaped money, through fraud or tax optimisation, represents a major shortfall for the state. This evaporated money does not finance the implementation of the social justice policies and structural reforms that our country needs. We can be criticized for not going far enough in social reforms or structural reforms; In this case, we are offered to redistribute more. To finance these redistribution measures, we are not presented with the bill, but we are invited to draw from the black box containing the hundreds of billions of euros that evaporate as a result of tax fraud and optimisation – digital giants are most often pointed out. [[Mr. Sylvain Maillard applauds]] In this rostrum last Thursday, during the discussion of the group's bill The Republicans seeking to restore the purchasing power of the French, I recalled my deep conviction, which is also yours, minister: before redistributed wealth through the intervention of the State, they must first be created. To do this, we need to build an environment that allows our businesses to create value and generate growth. We also need to put in place a solid legal basis to effectively combat tax optimisation, so that the value created by companies remains in our territory, where it was created. We must therefore encourage value creation and act for greater territorialisation of taxation. The logic of the reforms proposed by the majority is consistent with this vision of economic policy. In order to redistribute wealth, three conditions are necessary. First of all, we must allow our economy to create wealth and direct it towards the productive economy: to do so, we have transformed the ISF into an IFI, reduced the tax burden on businesses, maintained this trajectory for large companies and transformed the IEC into a drop in costs. It is then necessary to fight tax, social and customs fraud effectively, as we did with the law of 23 October 2018 on the fight against fraud. Finally, we must fight fiscal optimisation. It's that missing brick we're adding today. The fight against corporate tax optimisation is part of the political will of the majority, with you, Minister, in the lead. It is also part of a broader French political will. We regret that this bill is a national text, although we would have liked to see a joint proposal put forward at the level of the OECD or the European Union. However, this text allows us to move forward without waiting for an international consensus, which is too long to reach. France will continue in parallel – you have reassured us on this point – to play a leading role in international forums, a role that it has played for several years in a bold fiscal diplomacy. France has been at the forefront in the negotiations of the BEPS Multilateral Tax Convention, a project launched in 2013 by the G20 and OECD Member States to combat the tax optimisation of multinational companies. By going further than the other countries in ratifying this Convention, France has set an example. This strengthens our country's credibility when it proposes minimum taxation in the context of regulation of the digital economy. It is this fight that you are leading, Minister, within the framework of the G7 Finances that you are chairing. France is also at the heart of the European negotiations on the strengthening of competition law, the establishment of the list of tax havens and the taxation of digital giants, which brings us together today. Our willingness to be exemplary in the fight against tax fraud and optimisation strongly encourages us to maintain the momentum of negotiations with all stakeholders on international tax issues. It is the honour of France to give the movement and set the course. We support you in this ambition, Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Although the debate on this text focuses on Article 1, I would like to say a few words about Article 2, which aims to finance part of the economic and social emergency measures announced by the President of the Republic last December. While Article 1 illustrates our strong coherence in the fight against tax optimisation, Article 2 shows that our majority is able to adapt its trajectory when necessary, while maintaining its budgetary seriousness, which allows France to be credible in bringing its various fights to the European and international scene.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u157	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u158	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u159	"When you want you can, when you can. These comments from Napoleon sum up very well the spirit in which we find ourselves facing the challenge of the taxation of digital giants, the GAFAM, an acronym for Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft. If we only take the case of Google, created in 1998, we can note that the search engine alone concentrates almost 90% of online searches; It indexes 130000 billion pages and receives 40000 queries per second. Amazon, founded in 1994, has become the largest digital library in the world. These GAFAs, whose market capitalization exceeds EUR 2000 billion, become, in a way, more powerful than many states – their wealth exceeds, for example, Turkey's GDP, estimated at more than EUR 906 billion. Their economic strength is used to make all-round investments in the media, telecommunications, health and energy sectors. Microsoft, Google and Facebook have already installed their own fiber optic wiring systems in the seabed. It is undeniable that these multiple investments are increasing the weight of these digital giants and forcing us to reflect deeply on the challenges of their development for our economies. We already feel a challenge that will be crucial tomorrow, that of artificial intelligence, which is indispensable to meet. In this area, Facebook aims to double the number of researchers working in its centre in Paris since 2015, as well as to train more than 65,000 people by the end of the year. The temptation is great to see this as a great opportunity to create jobs for our territories. But let us think above all of what this implies in the economic war that the nations conduct themselves! Yes, we must invest heavily in artificial intelligence and create many jobs there, but we must do so in our own French and European structures, not in foreign companies, particularly in the United States. Here we touch on the core of the problem underlying the growing development of the GAFA: the economic sovereignty of our States is at stake. Unfortunately, it is not the 1.5 billion euros of investment in artificial intelligence announced by the President of the Republic that will enable us to meet the challenge effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u160	That is why we need a European policy that you do not want!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u161	Without our own servers and digital tools, many of us are forced to use the digital platforms we have mentioned. But it is imperative that France and the other European states seize the subject without taboos. The GAFA tax that you propose to adopt is aimed at companies with a turnover of 750 million euros worldwide and 25 million euros in France. We welcome the principle of taxation, which we have been demanding for a long time. A few days ago, the Austrian government presented a plan to tax these digital giants. There is an urgent need for a radical fight against tax dumping at the very heart of the European Union by certain states engaged in unfair tax competition. The European Commission and its President, Mr Juncker, have proved to be completely useless in this tax arm. Your bill is in the right direction, but it is not ambitious enough. It is similar to an umpteenth communication tool. The revenue from this tax was estimated at 400 million euros in 2019, and 650 million euros in 2020, 2021 and 2022. You have set a rate of 3% of the turnover in France on online advertising, the sale of personal data to third parties and intermediation. In view of the benefits of the GAFA, we propose to go further by applying a rate of 5%, in line with the tax project recently announced by Austria. It must be noted that, in this area as in many others, the European Union, many of which on these benches boast the merits, has shown itself, as usual, unable to win the arm of iron with the GAFAs. Once again, it is the nations of Europe that prove to be the most successful in advancing tax policy. Meditate this lesson a few weeks before the next European elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u162	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u163	The bill before us represents a major step towards a fairer tax system. It aims to restore equality before taxation and to restore to the State the full exercise of one of its sovereign functions. It is also, it must be stressed, the first piece of legislation that outlines an adaptation of our right to the realities of a new economy, that of digital technology. This economy takes advantage of the obsolescence of our rules to free itself from its duties towards the countries where it develops its activities. With this text, we are taking a first step. Respect for the law – the tax rules in this case – is no longer attached to the physical presence of the activity in the territory, but to the activity and value created in that territory. This is a small step in the law, but a big step for our sovereignty! Indeed, taxation is the privileged instrument of sovereignty, but it is not the only one. The failure to adapt our right to the digital economy threatens many other legitimate missions. If the State is unable to raise the tax, it will fail to fulfil its duties of security, the maintenance of public order, justice, the protection of users' data, and the exercise of its regulatory rights. At the international level, consideration has been given to the taxation of digital services in many countries, including Spain, Belgium, Austria, India, Australia and Israel, not to mention the accelerated work of the OECD. These advances reflect an awareness by States of the threats to their sovereignty and even to our models of democratic society. The adaptation of the law is obviously the first answer. We, French legislators, and our European counterparts have many opportunities to work, and this subject must also occupy our representatives in international bodies. In this House, our colleague Laetitia Avia's bill against online hatred and the regulatory part of the audiovisual bill go in this direction. The legislative lever is indispensable, but is it sufficient? No, of course not, because at the same time as we need to restore law, we will have an obligation, if we want to protect our models of society, to free ourselves from our dependence on those global actors who have invaded our lives. It must be noted that French or European alternatives are still struggling to emerge, as they are doubly hampered by their late entry into the market and by the distortions of competition which these companies, which respect the rules of the game, have to face against rivals who violate them. Much has been done over the past two years to bring out European digital champions. Several actions can be cited in the area of financing. First of all, I want to talk about the EUR 400 million that Bpifrance has provided to support French venture capital funds. You have entrusted, Mr. Minister, a mission to Philippe Tibi in order to encourage the introduction of technology companies on a stock exchange. We also mention the scale-up tour organised every year by the President of the Republic to encourage foreign investors to finance our start-ups, the flexibilities of the French tech visa to facilitate the recruitment of foreign talent by start-ups, or the plan for the development of start-ups carrying technological innovations of break-up, known as "deep tech", which previews the shift of 70 million euros per year from the revenues of the fund for innovation and industry. The French tech seed fund, with 400 million, also makes it possible to finance the capital of these start-ups. Let us mention the start-up tour, designed to reduce regulatory friction, the numerous general and sectoral measures, as well as the promotion of the best start-ups by creating a Next 40 index. While much has been done, much remains to be done, particularly at European level. Antitrust guidelines need to be relaxed to allow for mergers, which will give these champions the opportunity to reach a critical size. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei also applauds]] Citizens, who have called for the tax justice measures we are looking at today, also have a major role to play in regulating these actors. They must know that they have a power that weighs as much, if not more, as that of the legislator. They have the power of the consumer, of the market, and must refrain from buying or using the services of actors whose practices they condemn. We owe them a job of information and pedagogy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u164	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u165	I note that, in essence, the Government is blamed for everything and its opposite. For some, we would go too far and threaten the competitiveness of businesses and the situation of consumers. For others, on the contrary, we would not go far enough; Among them, some dream of a great fiscal night, which, however, may end up in disillusioning tomorrows.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u166	You're coming out of old strings!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u167	For some, this digital tax would have to be permanently waived, while for others, the cursor would have to be pushed much further. For my part, I share the desire for tax justice that has been expressed throughout the debates, but I think that we must take into account the challenge that France has set itself before the other European countries and the rest of the world. If, for years, we have made so little progress on tax issues, both at European and international level, it is simply because the stakes for the states, for the public authorities, are strategic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u168	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u169	The stakes are tax revenues, the ability to defend the public interest, to operate public services, to maintain fair competition between states. Some States, in fact, have made tax dumping, including in Europe, an argument for competitiveness. I refuse it and I fight it. Our ambition, which is a source of national pride and honours France and the majority, should not be abandoned, nor should we push the cursors too far, at the risk of not bringing any state to bear after us and being abandoned by the OECD. This is the approach that I have been proposing to you for the past two years, with the majority, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, on tax matters. I see that she's giving results. Look at the tax on financial transactions, which has been completely reduced for years: it is now the subject of cooperation between ten states.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u170	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u171	The French model serves as a reference, because it is reasonable, simple and legible; It will enable us to bring a number of European states on the road to taxation of financial transactions. Some will tell us that we are going too far and that we will threaten the attractiveness of Paris' financial centre. That's not true: the banks are returning to France. Others will argue that we need to go much further, that we simply tax the sale of shares, while many other financial products should be included. But in that case, no one would follow us. We are making a proposal that works and is followed by other European states: it is proof that we have made the right choice and followed the right direction. The same applies to the issue of minimum taxation, which is an absolutely considerable challenge. We no longer want multinationals to be able to escape a fair tax on companies, thanks to the investment of the profits of their subsidiaries in tax havens. The proposal we are making has been worked out with the United States and Germany. He may be accused of not being radical enough, but I can assure you that if we succeed in implementing it, it will be a major breakthrough in the definition of a fairer and more effective international tax system. I prefer a concrete result to immense ambitions, but they remain a dead letter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u172	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u173	What a confession of impotence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u174	I believe that our compatriots do not expect great dreams, but decisions. They do not want justice in the clouds, but on earth, in their pockets and in the taxes we adopt. This also applies to the taxation of digital giants. We have been working on this for two years. We studied all the options with experts, economists, experts from the European Commission and the OECD – you mentioned Mr Saint-Amans who actually helped us. We have come to the proposal that we are submitting to you today, which is simple, effective and reasonable; It makes it possible to take a first step in the right direction, so that those who make the most profits, who use the data of French consumers, are finally taxed. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. Michel Castellani also applauds]] I think many of our compatriots are watching us today. Many European citizens, a large number of states in Europe and around the world pay attention to our initiative. The U.S. Secretary of State has even given us the honour to take an interest in the taxation of digital giants. Let us show them that we have courage, that we are united and all able, here on these benches, whatever our sensitivity, to finally apply, at the national level before moving on to the international level, a fair taxation of digital giants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u175	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u176	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u177	As we begin our examination of Article 1, I would like to point out that, if we are to introduce a tax on digital services in France today, it is because, at European level, a handful of Member States – four out of twenty-eight – have decided to oppose this tax. If tax issues were settled by qualified majority and not unanimously at European level, this tax would be the subject of a comprehensive agreement that would respond to the legitimate demand for tax justice from our French and European citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u178	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u179	"More tax justice", this is one of the main messages rightly hammered by our fellow citizens in the great national debate. This tax is beneficial because it restores a form of tax fairness for businesses and for all our citizens who, let us recall, contribute to the wealth of large digital companies, which use their data. It is also necessary, because it allows France to lead the way for our European partners and to keep the issue of digital taxation in the political debate, even though it has been excluded for so long. But as beneficial as it is, this solution can only be temporary, because the regulation of the globalised economy will inevitably require a comprehensive and long-term European response. The real challenge is the construction of European fiscal sovereignty and the overcoming of national horizons, which have become inoperable in the face of the world's major groupings, namely the United States and China. This is a matter of national and European sovereignty. In a few weeks, as you know, the European elections will be held. They are, in my view, a real political opportunity to move the lines in Europe. Our political families, on all sides of this House, must put this issue at the heart of the European political debate in the coming weeks...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u180	Count on us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u181	... to obtain, in the next parliamentary term of the European Parliament, massive, trans-party support and a real majority which will put maximum pressure on the Member States, to move them and finally break the rule of unanimity in tax matters, which leads us to division and withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u182	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u183	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If, in the years to come, we can move forward more unitedly on tax issues, we will have a fairer, more sovereign and more democratic Europe. That is clearly what our fellow citizens and the Member States expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u184	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u185	What better application of tax justice than the alignment of the taxation of digital giants with that of traditional companies that are conscientiously paying their taxes? Wrongly referred to as the GAFA tax, it could be described, like the Director of the OECD's Tax Policy and Administration Centre, as a "GEUFEU tax" because, strangely, it does not concern Apple or Amazon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u186	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u187	In fact, this digital service tax is imperfect in many ways. It is first of all a French-French tax by default; Without calling into question your will, Minister, it must be noted that you have failed to convince our European partners of its validity, which, you will agree, limits the scope. Secondly, the base, or in any case the notion of permanent establishment for digital companies, is still unclear. Finally, at this stage of the examination of the text, nothing really protects consumers or businesses from possible perverse effects. However, a revenue of 400 million euros is expected, which is not nothing, even if the signal effect will certainly be stronger than the tax effect. Some here spoke of a "symbolic measure." This is precisely because neither the value of the symbol should be overlooked – a 400 million euro symbol, however! – nor the international training effect, which I will vote for Article 1, despite all the reservations I have just expressed. I understand that this tax will hit the use of data, the value eventually created by the Internet user, that digital giants monetize. But, as I did in committee, I ask the Government to engage, as soon as possible, in a debate on tax fairness between traditional trade and electronic commerce.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u188	This debate will take place!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u189	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For our territories, for the model of society we want – connected but not dehumanized – there is also, Mr.Minister, a real subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u190	That's right, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u191	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u192	Today we are discussing a complex bill, which starts with a good intention: to restore tax justice in favour of French and European companies. We share, I believe, a conviction in this House: we need to tax the global digital giants, who support in France and Europe a much lower average tax rate than traditional companies. However, digital taxation has always been characterized by a subtle balance. Our concern, Minister, is that the tax introduced by the bill is a blow to our French and European companies. If, in its title, it concerns the GAFAMs, it is in reality our digital companies that will drink. In order to specifically target the GAFAMs, you have focused on identifying their economic models and, in fact, you have taken in their wake the European companies competing with the GAFAMs, positioned on the same economic models. This is, for example, the case of Crito, a competitor of Google and Facebook, Leboncoin and Cdiscount, competitors of Amazon, or Spotify, competitor of Apple. As you want to bring more tax justice, you create a situation of injustice by subjecting French and European companies that already pay their taxes in France to double taxation. I will take the example of Criteo, a rare French company listed at NASDAQ, which has always chosen to maintain its head office in France, where it employs nearly 1000 people. Minister, how can we accept that this company is taxed in the same way as Google or Amazon, while paying its taxes in France? Is that your idea of tax justice? Finally, I can only regret your haste to have this tax voted without mastering its contours. This is evidenced by such a thin impact assessment, which does not even mention the possible consequences of the measure in terms of attractiveness for the French territory. If the young French shoots are not affected by this tax, the latter sends a bad signal while France lacks precisely " unicorns". [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In essence, Minister, you sold us a "start-up nation" two years ago, but today, your policy leads France to become a "tax nation".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u193	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u194	As Mrs Duby-Muller has just explained, the digital services tax will have an impact on promising and virtuous French and European companies. They will be subject to double economic taxation. I will try to humanise the problem somewhat to make it more concrete. Invoking tax secrecy, you are careful not to disclose the names of the companies that will be affected by this new tax. We believe, quite rightly, that you have won the battle of propaganda, since most of the media use the term "GAFA tax", like most of our colleagues in the majority in our chamber. So let me remind you a few figures: Google pays 14 million euros in taxes in France, Facebook 1.9 million, Amazon 8 million, and Apple 19 million. This is about €40 million for all GAFAs. Apple will not be one of the companies that will be taxed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u195	What about Airbnb?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u196	Earlier, the rapporteur made a small, tax-inspired joke, saying: "The virtue does not exempt from the tax. » Minister, you said in committee: "I am not entitled to give you the list of companies that would be subject to the tax secrecy rule that you know very well. You implied that these were GAFAs, since you added: "Believe me, however, that it is not companies that will make you cry. » For my part, I will give you a list of companies that can make us cry, which has just been drafted by our colleague Virginie Duby-Muller, in order to get them out of anonymity and invisibility. They will be the real victims of your text, because they will pay the tax and the digital services tax, as long as you refuse to consider any solution to the problem. Crito, mentioned at the moment, pays €30 million in taxes in France. SeLoger.com pays 20 million euros in taxes in France. Leboncoin pays $50 million on his own. Amadeus, which we will talk about later, pays almost 100 million. You said earlier that there was not really a French flagship: these companies will appreciate... Finally, with regard to a turnover tax, we fear its downstream impact on economic actors, consumers and users.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u197	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u198	As a member of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, I would like to point out that the issue before us today is not just a matter of taxation. His range is much higher. It goes, no more, no less, to the defence of our cultural sovereignty. Digital giants not only benefit from our inability to tax them, but also from our weaknesses to expand their cultural domination, including through the acquisition of a myriad of local companies working in the digital field. We are witnessing an attempt by the GAFAs to impose their cultural hegemony. This attempt is not the direct result of states, but of overpowering societies that fall short of all or almost all standards. Our famous cultural exception, based on powerful regulatory mechanisms, has preserved the vitality of our creation. At present, it is no longer able to withstand the insatiable appetite of digital giants. Let us take one example: how can a French producer, paying taxes and charges, who is required to reinvest part of his profits in the creation of a future work, compete with giants who neither make one or the other? There are two options for us. The simplest – to deregulate – is also the worst. At this game, the GAFAs will always have a lead. In addition, we would be sure to kill all forms of cultural independence, as has happened in Italy and Spain in the past. The second option is to tackle this emerging monopoly and force platforms to comply with our tax system and our tax rules. In any case, in the absence of unanimous agreement by the Member States of the European Union, or even a global agreement under the auspices of the OECD, this bill promises to be in vain. Worse: in a world where tax optimisation remains the rule, including within the single market, there is a great risk of dissuading companies from moving to France, not to mention the threshold effect it has on our own companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Clearly, this is a mechanism which, harmonised at European level, would constitute real progress, but which, at the level of an isolated country, risks becoming a counterproductive measure for it. Isn't that a climax?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u199	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u200	I will speak on my own behalf, as I often do. The central problem is that the tax base of financial performance, in terms of digital services, is not localized in the states of origin of the wealth created. Everyone agrees. It is wrong to say, as I often hear, that GAFAMs pay very little taxes. The famous 9% tax rate does not exist. I have consulted the accounts published by Reuters and have calculated the tax rate for these businesses: I have reached a weighted average rate of 22% for the last three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u201	Normal, they took it all away!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u202	So the problem is not there. The problem is that the GAFAMs pay their taxes in the United States and not in Europe. Minister, does your tax solve the problem? It is inadequate for the purposes pursued, as you have stated. Tax justice? This turnover-based tax on three types of digital services is not a tax on GAFAM profits, but a tax that will be borne, for the most part, by final consumers, in particular individuals. I asked you about this by quoting a study by Deloitte, but you never answered me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u203	I answered earlier, Monsieur de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u204	You just say that a tax is never passed on. If only it were true! With regard to the economic impact of this tax, Minister, you have never responded when examining the text in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u205	I said that the cost of the tax, at least for half, would be zero for the consumer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u206	Is the tax in line with economic efficiency? No, because it penalizes French companies' exports to Europe. Thus, a French SME exporting digital services to Germany will pay the tax, but if it buys the same services in Germany, it will not pay for it. In addition, this measure involves legal risks – you deny them, but they exist. Is the digital services tax controlable? We never really discussed it. How will we control all this? So what is the right approach? It is very simple: it consists of setting a minimum corporate tax rate at the international level, applicable everywhere and with the definition of a specific base.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u207	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u208	As our local traders struggle to survive, digital giants are largely tax-free. The resulting distortion of competition is unacceptable. Since the Government has failed to reach an agreement at European level, you are proposing, Mr Minister, the creation of a national tax so that the GAFAs in France will pay a tax in accordance with their real level of economic activity. Article 1 therefore provides for a 3% tax on turnover in France by digital giants, affecting targeted online advertising, the sale of data for advertising purposes and the linking of Internet users by platforms. This tax will be paid by groups whose turnover from digital activities exceeds 750 million euros worldwide and 25 million euros in France, i.e. to date some 30 companies, mostly American. However, such a tax, in order to be effective, should be introduced at least at European level, and if possible at OECD level. However, France is obliged to ride alone, even though Britain, Italy and Spain are also working on their own "GAFA law". Be careful, though! If, to date, French start-ups are not affected by this tax, you are nevertheless sending them a bad signal because the TSN could discourage the investment of traditional companies in digital transformation. Created to sanction the least virtuous, this tax will also apply to companies that do not engage in any tax optimisation. I am thinking in particular of the French company Crito, one of our flagships, which does not seek to avoid tax, unlike some web giants such as the American Amazon or Chinese Alibaba. Finally, there is a significant risk that the companies affected by this tax will pass it almost entirely on to the final consumer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u209	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u210	This risk is low for online advertising players, but very real for Internet intermediation actors, such as Leboncoin or PriceMinister. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the end, with this bill, it is the large French companies that will pay the bill. We will discuss this again during the review of section 2, in which you go back to your promise to reduce the corporate tax rate to 28% for all businesses in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u211	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u212	In the preamble, I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Fabrice Brun, who said that Amazon and Apple would not be affected by the digital services tax. This is not true: these companies will be taxed under the provision of intermediation. Minister, congratulations! How many French women and politicians would have preferred to say that it was impossible to tax the GAFAs because of Europe, criticising his impotence and naivety in passing? There is another attitude: to negotiate. Faced with friendly countries that are hesitant, you take the decision, with the support of the majority, to bypass and engage in a fair and effective process, which will impose itself on others as evidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u213	There's nothing like national sovereignty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u214	Mr. Lecoq, are you sick?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u215	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In this text, we bet that our partners will quickly join our position of taxing digital giants. Moreover, we are responding to the French call for greater social justice. All economic actors must contribute to the tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u216	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u217	There is no debate about this: our tax systems are overtaken by the digitisation of the economy. Corporate tax is largely circumvented because it does not take into account the digital dimension. This leaves the field open for the largest digital companies, in particular to operate in one country by being established in another country engaged in tax dumping. In a context where cases of tax avoidance, through aggressive tax optimisation that can go as far as fraud, are multiplying and legitimately shocking public opinion, the question of the adaptation of tax legislation to digitalisation is raised. It is not only political; It is also moral, because equality before taxes is an essential foundation of our democracy. Initially requested by a few states, including France, the European Commission's digital services taxation project has not been successful. Should we wait for a compromise? I don't think so. Article 1 is a first step in addressing the challenges facing our tax system in tomorrow's economy. While this bill is a strong political signal, it is important to create both fair and effective taxation. That is our responsibility as legislators. It is therefore necessary to respond structurally and sustainably to the challenge before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u218	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u219	Your intervention, Minister, is a true confession of impotence – impotence to put the companies concerned back in their place, to prevent them from dictating their conditions to the states, but also to place themselves with ambition as a real lead on this subject. I'm going to call you modesty: France is not the only country to think about taxing GAFAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u220	We don't think, we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u221	Several of our colleagues have referred to Italy, which is based on the concept of permanent establishment. Spain is an example of a much higher return tax. Austria is considering the introduction of a 5% tax. As you can see, some European countries are far more ambitious than we are in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u222	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u223	For the proper holding of the debates, I would like to re-establish a number of truths. Mrs Rubin, you say that Austria is much more ambitious than we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u224	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u225	That is not true: it certainly provides for a higher tax rate, but a much narrower tax base. For our part, we have adopted the widest possible basis, proposed by the European Commission, and we are applying a rate of 3%. On the other hand, I mean that French companies will be massacred by this tax. I would remind you that 80 per cent of its output will be from foreign companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u226	What about the remaining 20%, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u227	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So I can't let that be said. To those who claim that France's attractiveness could be threatened, I recall – you should all be proud of it – that it has been found, for more than two years, as shown by the figures of INSEE, which are not mine: 34,000 jobs created in 2017, 30,000 in 2018...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u228	Where are these jobs? In the metropolises!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u229	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... and, for the first three months of 2019, a 20% increase in foreign investment in France compared to the first quarter of 2018. Congratulations to you that our country has regained its attractiveness thanks to the work of the French, especially French entrepreneurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u230	His foreign trade is no less in deficit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u231	I have a little doubt: I do not think for a moment that France could suddenly lose its economic attractiveness on the grounds that it is taking the lead in the taxation of digital giants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u232	Yes! We're isolated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u233	Believe me, I don't think our attraction is there. [["Yes!" on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, some say that our start-ups and SMEs will be threatened. But they are precisely by the de facto monopoly exercised by the digital giants, which prevent them from growing and developing, so that they end up systematically, for many years, by being redeemed. [[Exclaims on various benches]] Mr de Courson, I have known you more relevant on other matters. You say that the majority of the performance of the TSN will be passed on to the consumer. However, I have indicated that this would not be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u234	What about the Deloitte study?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u235	It seems to me that you didn't listen to what I said. Half of the tax return will come from activities such as online advertising, which is free of charge. The consumer will therefore escape.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u236	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, The SMEs will pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u237	As for the Deloitte study, I have it in my hands. I have known you more relevant on other matters, Mr de Courson, because you know perfectly well that the assumption is that the consumer tax will be affected by 100%, which is absolutely not the habit of companies, especially when they compete with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u238	You didn't do any studies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u239	Let us return to certain realities. I prefer to listen to Mrs Kuster's arguments on the cultural issue related to digital giants – indeed, it is a real subject – or to Mr Brun's arguments on e-commerce, an issue on which I have already indicated that we are ready to debate. But I won't let any obvious misconceptions pass...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u240	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u241	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... aimed at de-credivising a tax project supported by a majority of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u242	I have before me two amendments, Nos 3 and 97, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u243	I have heard the arguments of our colleague Sylvain Maillard: I was only paraphrasing Pascal Saint-Amans, who was being interviewed by the Finance Committee. I would also like to thank the Minister for the comments he has just made on the local trade. In line with France's international positions, Amendment No 3 aims to rewrite Article 1, to introduce taxation of digital giants by incorporating the rules envisaged in the draft European Directive and to define in national law the concept of permanent establishment for digital companies. You seem to consider that this concept is not yet sufficiently precise from a legal point of view, but my amendment seems to have the virtue of consistency between what you are defending, Mr Minister, at European level, and what we are defending here in the French Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u244	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u245	The adoption of this amendment, of which my colleague Daniel Fasquelle is the first signatory, is all the more urgent because the European Commission itself has recognised that the ideal approach would be to find multilateral and international solutions to tax the digital economy, given the global scale of this challenge. While the Commission cooperates closely with the OECD to facilitate the development of an international solution, it is difficult to reach consensus, given the complexity of the problem and the wide range of issues to be addressed. It's going to take time! At the same time, the United Kingdom announced that a similar tax on the turnover of platform operators in its territory would be introduced in 2020, thus ahead of European work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u246	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u247	We have discussed all these issues at length in committee. I know that Mr Brun is very invested in this subject, but the definition of virtual permanent establishment he is proposing comes up against all the tax treaties in force. Very concretely, if we adopted this amendment, it would not be operational: we would be happy, but it would not be of interest in itself. For this and other reasons, I give an opinion against Amendment No 3. Amendment No 97 proposes the taxation of accommodation sites; However, the latter are already included in Article 1. I therefore invite you to withdraw it, since it is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u248	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u249	I also welcome Mr Brun's proposal. We are working on this and I am confident that one day, within the OECD, we will be able to define this digital permanent establishment from a significant digital presence. But if you adopted this amendment today, in the current international context, we would be in contravention of the bilateral and multilateral tax treaties that we signed. I therefore propose that Mr Brun withdraw his amendment. I share its objective, but in the absence of a European or international agreement, we cannot define digital permanent establishment in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u250	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u251	I thank the rapporteur and the Minister for their analysis. We have indeed discussed this issue at length. The aim of my amendment was to set the course to be reached at the international level and to give France the necessary strength in the negotiations. However, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u253	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 38 and 65. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u254	This amendment by Mr. Sébastien Leclerc could be described as an editorial because it is intended to replace the term "cashed sums", which is repeated in this bill but which is not used in traditional tax terminology, the words "turnovers realized", which are much more often found in business accounts. The aim for the latter is to improve the readability of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u255	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u256	Since the concept of "cashed sums" is not sufficiently clear, I propose to replace it with that of "realised turnover".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u258	You claim, Mrs Louwagie, that the notion of "cashed sums" does not exist. However, the use of this expression is not at all new. The turnover taxes refer to the sums paid to the person liable and not to turnover. In addition, to be honest, the words "cashed" are of great clarity and are in full consistency with the rest of the bill. The adoption of these amendments would therefore create confusion, especially since you do not propose coordination for the whole text. I therefore ask you to withdraw these amendments; If they don't, I'll give them an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u260	Again, I welcome the constructive spirit of these amendments. I see that you are looking to define a tax base that is more precise than turnover. I have never claimed that turnover was the best taxable basis possible; However, we realize that this is the only way to achieve realistic taxation of digital giants. In addition, as you yourself indicate, you are proposing a basis that is not part of the tax codes, which would pose considerable legal problems. I therefore call for the two identical amendments to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u261	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u262	These amendments do not bring much to the clarity of the debate. Earlier, the minister corrected our colleague Sabine Rubin, who allegedly gave false information, since Austria, in his view, had less ambition than France in the taxation of digital giants. I would point out that the rate in Austria is higher, so that annual revenue will reach almost EUR 200 million. Knowing that our GDP is six times greater than that of our Austrian friends, I maintain that Austria's ambition is greater than that of France. So you're the one who made the mistake, Minister. We cannot toise our Austrian friends in this way...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u263	I'm not you Austrians!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u264	...and consider that what you do is more ambitious than what they do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u265	But they don't take into account the same plate as us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u266	Their tax base is narrower, but the rate is higher, so their tax will bring more money back to the Austrian taxpayer. That was a clarification that deserved to be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u267	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u268	This will rarely happen to me, but I agree with what has just been said – except that I never intended to to toise anyone, neither Austria nor any other European country. It is true that the estimated revenue of the digital tax in Austria is in the order of EUR 200 million. So I confirm the figure that has just been given. I like the arguments exchanged during a debate to be honest and precise. This is the case here: I want to greet him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u269	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 5, 33 and 86. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u270	The sale and distribution of goods by e-commerce was omitted in this text. We therefore propose that this important part of e-commerce activity should be included in the scheme, which will help to rebalance the tax burden between e-commerce players and traditional physical businesses. It must be admitted that the latter are actively involved in the national effort, unlike the e-commerce players, who, however, use public infrastructure, especially for their deliveries, with a disastrous carbon balance. It should be remembered that online sales lead to more deliveries, thus congestion, while the digital sector is already particularly energy-intensive. There is very little talk about it: so I wanted to stress it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u271	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u272	This amendment was tabled by my colleague Marc Le Fur. The current tax rules, based mainly on land, do not adequately address the questions posed by the emergence of the new forms of value creation that are being discussed here. While businesses in physical commerce pay the property tax on built-up properties, digital giants are completely exempt. It is therefore necessary to restore equity between all actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u273	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u274	You cannot dispute, Minister, that you will not tax the various distribution channels in a uniform manner. Our amendment therefore seeks to solve this problem. You have expressed interest in, and even support for, the submission of a report on all of these issues, but the tax, as it is intended, worsens the current situation. You argued that I wasn't very serious...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u275	I said I knew you more relevant, it's different!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u276	...but, minister, your argument doesn't hold for a second. Take the ad: you say it is free for users, but it is not free for companies to buy advertising spaces! The tax will not weigh on the individual, but on the company, which will increase the price of online advertising. It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u277	She's not going to be taxed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u278	You never answer that question, except to say that it is free for the individual. [[Laughs]] For the Meetic site, the diagram is still different. You recognized it: you tax love, you tax meeting. Of course, ladies and gentlemen! You will increase the cost of the meeting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u279	[[Smile]] Do you often visit this kind of site, my dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u280	We discussed this issue at length in the Finance Committee: the minister acknowledged that the tax would apply to Meetic. So you're going to tax love, while a third of couples form thanks to this system! So you will have to take on the fact of taxing love.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u281	[[Smile]] Charles-Amédée, you're exaggerating!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u282	What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u283	[[Smile]] I will stick to e-commerce and not address the love trade, which seems to be important to our friend Charles de Courson. I would point out that we discussed at length, in committee, the fact that e-commerce was not concerned with the tax. However, this is a real subject: it is therefore appropriate that we have enough elements to make decisions when we discuss the next finance bill. That is why we adopted in committee an amendment by Gilles Carrez, which I had co-signed, providing for the submission of a report on e-commerce which will enable us to work under the PLF. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u284	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u285	Love has a price, Monsieur de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u286	[[Laughs]] That's horrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u287	No, love has no price!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u288	In any case, I do not dispute the fact that Meetic will be taxed, since this site acts as an intermediary, if I may say so, between two people. The question of e-commerce, raised by Mr Brun and Mr de Courson, is fundamental. I invite you to conduct a very in-depth analysis, to carry out a very in-depth impact assessment before any decision is taken, which is why I very much support the submission of a report. You are all sensitive, in this Chamber, to the question of activity in the territories, and I think you know enough about them to know that many independents have created their trade in very sparsely populated communes – this is the case in the Eure, where I was elected. If you taxly penalize online commerce excessively, or without adjusting the rate chosen – the Chairman of the Finance Committee suggested allowing local authorities the freedom to fix it, why not? – you are likely to put at a disadvantage many Frenchmen who have started without the means to open a shop and whose activity manages to be profitable. That is why I hope that we will have the most in-depth debate possible before taking decisions on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u289	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u290	I am ready to withdraw my amendment. Recognize, however, that the new tax increases the differences between the various channels of distribution of goods and services. This exacerbates the problem, it is indisputable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u291	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u292	I recall that companies that use Amazon's platform to sell goods are taxed. It cannot therefore be said that e-commerce is not subject to any taxation. On the one hand, Amazon's sales of goods to consumers in B to C are subject to VAT. On the other hand, the OECD has changed the transfer pricing rules, notably by better taxing logistics warehouses so that they become permanent establishments. On the other hand, companies or individuals using the Amazon platform are subject, for both companies and individuals, to income tax regardless of the country from which they come. Finally, Amazon may be subject to the digital services tax on its intermediation services. It is therefore clear that several taxes already apply and that e-commerce is not an area of non-right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u293	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-08-O1208.u294	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the digital services tax bill and changes to the corporate tax reduction trajectory. The meeting is adjourned.
