ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u1	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u2	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law on business growth and transformation (No. 1673, 1761). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u4	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u5	For several months now, we have been working on the Business Growth and Transformation Bill – the PACTE – which focuses on all stages of business life and aims to remove barriers to business creation and growth. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement subscribes to the main objectives of this bill, which, by reducing costs and by simplifying approaches that are now seen as dissuasive, facilitates the creation of enterprises, which provides for a period of five years before the additional rules relating to the crossing of staff thresholds apply, which recognises the right to failure, through measures to reduce delays, and the principle of a second chance, and finally allows employees to be better involved in the results of their company. This commitment to these broad objectives has enabled the members of the MODEM and related groups to defend amendments reflecting their willingness to include their values in the Government's bill. We live in a globalized world: if we hear these words every day, we tend to forget the true meaning of them. Some may regret this, but one thing remains certain: we will not succeed in empowering our companies to meet the challenges of this globalized world if we ignore diversification and increased financing. In this regard, the MODEM and related group is particularly proud to have contributed to the expansion of the inter-firm loan, which will allow the financing of commercial enterprises to be diversified and thus to establish a link of solidarity between those who use it. This diversification of business financing must be accompanied by security. Our group is thus at the origin of the incorporation into this bill of a collaborative reverse factoring system, which relies on the free choice of suppliers to enter and leave and which limits the negative impacts of excessively long payment deadlines by putting them on the payer rather than on companies. By removing an obstacle to the development of businesses and their regaining markets, this initiative is fully in line with the ambitious objectives set out in this bill. These various advances would be insufficient if we did not take a careful look at the sharing of value, which is necessary for the expression of the general interest and therefore for the interest of our fellow citizens. Thus, in the context of the re-establishment of Article 57a aimed at expanding the use of the funds of the savings plans undertaken, we have defended the possibility for an employee to mobilise these funds to acquire shares of his company. As we know for having debated it together, the search for the social dimension of business has never been foreign to this bill. True to its political line, the MODEM and related group has contributed, through Article 27e, to extending the benefit of crowdfunding to this major societal advance, which is the recognition of corporate social responsibility – CSR – in the company's raison d'être. For our group, this recognition of CSR is a marker of the modernization of the business concept. It raises the question of the role of companies, which must be recognised as stakeholders in societal developments, as well as their place in our society and in our territories. It gives those who wish to do so the ability to value their social interest, beyond capital alone, by taking into account the societal and environmental stakes of their activities. I have no doubt that, on all the benches of our assembly, our different visions will nourish and enrich the debates. We all aspire, I am sure, to support our businesses, their creation and their development, because we all measure how essential their contribution is to the dynamics, wealth and equity of our constituencies. I would like to take this general discussion to thank you, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the Chairman of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen, for listening to you and for your detailed arguments when it comes to giving your respective opinions, whether they were unfavourable or favourable, on the amendments that we have defended. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I'm not going to be any longer, so I'm going to leave room for debate. I hope that it will conclude with the vote on this PACTE bill, which is important for France's economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u6	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u7	What a story! For us, however, it did not begin when the President of the Republic announced the PACTE bill. I'll call you back a few dates. In 2009 a seminar was launched at the Collège des Bernardins, which will last several years and will bring together representatives of several disciplines, entrepreneurs and researchers from all walks of life, around the reinvention of the company in the 21st century. You have almost used the same words, minister, when you spoke of the reinvention of capitalism, but we will see that they do not quite designate the same thing and that they do not have the same scope. You are going to tell me that this is being discussed: this will in some way be the subject of our conversation, and the amendments that will be discussed during this new reading will be a test. For almost ten years, researchers, entrepreneurs and NGOs have worked to redefine the company as a political project for the 21st century. It is from this matrix that the principle of the duty of vigilance of multinationals will emerge, whose second anniversary of adoption, which today inspires many countries, the work of the United Nations and perhaps soon a European directive, will be celebrated in ten days' time – we are working on it. In this context the questions of co-determination and reform of the civil code were asked, in short, the essence of what drives us today. It is October 2017, before the announcement of the President of the Republic. A circle of reflection, around the Civic Spirit, decides that the left must speak about the company: not only about work, but about corporate governance. The Socialist Group is now working on a proposal for a law, the two pillars of which are the co-determination and reform of the civil code, in addition to which we propose a few variations to your deliberations. Tabled in December, it is discussed in January and at that time we have a rather extraordinary promise: these modern, fair, innovative ideas, we were all going to adopt them as part of the PACTE bill, converging together in a co-construction of the new company. To say the least, we are disenchanted. So it didn't start with this new world that is close to your heart: work, political philosophies, convergent or diverging, preexisted. I would like to point out a call made in May for a new European enterprise, which stands out from Asian state capitalism and from the deviant or excessive forms of Anglo-Saxon liberalism. This call, signed here by Boris Vallaud or Régis Juanico, brings together 430 personalities, like Enrico Letta and others, from all walks of life, from the centre, from the left, sometimes even from the right centre to the European scale, from thirty countries. It is a call to reinvent a European ethos, the principles of a new corporate governance that sets us apart in the world and makes Europe a compass in globalisation. [[Boris Vallaud applauds]] Even if it is not customary, because they have spent tens of hours in this assembly, whether they are trade unionists, entrepreneurs, activists or researchers, I would simply like to quote Christophe, Olivier, Aurélien, Michel, Guislain, Philippe, Francis, Florian and others who have come here to work, to seek out, to translate our ideas into amendments. You have repeatedly paid tribute to the precision of our amendments: we owe it to those volunteers who, from their experience in the world of work, have proposed solutions corresponding to the ideas we were defending so that we do not stay at the stage of evanescent declarations and move on to practical work. I wanted to pay tribute to them: it is this journey, Minister, that allows us to be at the meeting of a diagnosis with you. We share it: yes, the world has changed as a result of technological-scientific changes. Yes, there are scandalous inequalities to a point that is no longer bearable. On this we can agree with Roland Lescure. I would add the ecological crisis, which is not one more issue but one that underpins and over-determines all the others. You didn't say it, but you had to have it in mind. The world has indeed changed profoundly. I was talking about Europe earlier. Invited to the Assembly recently, Enrico Letta, again, reminded us that at the founding of Europe, at the time of Robert Schuman, Europeans represented one in five Earthlings. By 2050 we will be 5% of humanity. It's a radical upheaval. You also recalled that Asian production will have increased from 15 to 30 per cent in half a century. This is this new world in which we are and no one ignores it. We are in a world of technological-scientific change. The digital revolution, the robotic revolution, other scientific revolutions around nanotechnology lead us to think of it as an extraordinary challenge, beyond the despair and unemployment that leave people on the side today, a society of full activity. I say this without consultation with my political party, the Socialist Party: I believe that the question of sharing work will inevitably be asked again to our societies in the years to come. You mentioned inequalities. It would be too indigestible to quote here the Capital of Piketty but we can observe together the distortion in the distribution of value between capital and labour, especially for three decades, under the empire of neoliberal thought. We could talk about what Louis Maurin, director of the Observatoire des Inequalités, reminded us on Saturday at the meeting of the great national debate that took place in my constituency: the creation everywhere of a society of masters and servants, two social classes, one of which would be at the service of the other, in pockets of precariousness that we do not have to describe here. Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur-general, Madam President, we have had real controversies, which we have dealt with with with a certain degree of civility, height of view and precision. I would like to pay tribute to you for that. Our discussions have been well held. The Government has always sought to answer our questions. We had time to speak. We wanted to thank you for that, even if it should go without saying in this House. We have reached agreements on 5 to 10 per cent of the proposals, but for the most part we have had controversies that we have been able to handle and manage. Perhaps the essential question that I would like to dwell on is the question of words, outlined earlier by Boris Vallaud. I will do it in another way – each one's temperament. You evoke with a certain emphasis a reinvention of capitalism. What the hell! The seminar of the Bernardins had otherwise radical proposals and laid down principles that were not revolutionary than those we adopted. You do in some areas a little bit of everything, but too little to make a difference. For the rest, they are more ideological than pragmatic deregulations. To stay in measure and poetry, I would say that you are more in the display of a post-capitalist fanion than in the change of direction of the ship of our economy. In order to genuinely reinvent liberalism and capitalism as you claim, it seems to me that we must both have a purpose and set limits, in other words be able to take on three shares that we will propose through our amendments: the sharing of power, the sharing of added value and the sharing of knowledge. The sharing of power is co-determination. Thirteen European countries have already implemented it. We could talk about the terms, the statutes, etc. But thirteen European countries face the changes of the world with co-determination. Now was the time to follow them. We had outlined it during the previous term, and we could have said so today. If we are not in the "more than 1000" to 50% of paid administrators, with strata, progressivity, all possible options, we are not in the co-determination. However, the affirmation of democracy in the company, the participation of employees as the reformist unions demanded it: this was the real revolution, the matrix of all the other changes that we proposed to you and that we were ready to live. Here again, we have introduced a dose that is not significant. We will return to the sharing of added value. Between the limitation of dividends, the pay differentials as we propose them or international reporting, which would ensure true transparency in the taxation of multinationals, we failed to rethink the sharing of value, including in the formula of participation, which was yet within our legislative reach. Let me conclude on the question of the third sharing, which is fundamental to the transformation of our societies and our economy: that of knowledge. We have missed the essentials, in particular through advertising, the privatisation of standards by companies, and including extra-financial reporting, which has been diverted into forms of CSR that are no longer legible, that are confused, that are above all propaganda. To be a democracy, to be a public power capable of leading change in the 21st century, is to create public standards, to say again that what is good for business, what is good for man is a matter for Parliament, for public power, and not for private power. We could reorient our economy by putting our energy into this capacity of public authorities to set CSR standards. I think it would be a real revolution. It is a philosophical aim, deeply liberal in the sense that it creates a new capacity for citizens to discern among companies those in the red, those in orange, thus in progress, and those who have acquired a green business status because they have respected human rights, equality between men and women, because they will make efforts beyond the law for the environment – not to say it but to do so really, with a measure that has proved its worth in other fields, in the agri-food sector and in other certifications. It would be a small revolution, which would give our society the capacity to transform the economy. This costs nothing, or almost anything, less than private labels that create confusion for producers and consumers. If we are really liberal, if we are really democrats, if we are really socialists – I am – in the search for justice, then we have to build these public standards that allow society to take over the economy. We believe deeply in a regulatory public power, capable of giving a vision and setting limits, capable of humanizing the economy, of making this plea in France and Europe and of making it a compass in a globalization felt by peoples as without faith or law. [[Applause on the SOC benches and some MODEM benches]] Here's the sight that was ours. We're a long way from it. We may be on the same path, in a process that may seem equivalent, but the account is definitely not there. We still have a chance in those three days that bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u8	Always so brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u9	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u10	Some pieces of legislation are intended to be ideological standards: the PACTE bill is certainly one of those because it responds point by point to the ambitions expressed by the high priests of neoliberalism in the service of the temple merchants. This neoliberalism, you are, minister, obsessively, blindly a faithful, without any critical spirit. Here we are facing a tote bill, like the Macron Act enacted in 2015. Of course, this new salmigondis has the same aims: to deregulate, liberalize and privatize. The same aims, but in unprecedented proportions. In appearance, to take up a beautiful formula of Lautréamont in the Chants de Maldoror, one could say that it is the accidental encounter, on a dissection table, of a sewing machine and an umbrella. There is a multiplicity of subjects, but above all it is a table of dissection – surgical expression of the act of faith of the faithful servant of neoliberalism that you are, and besides you do not hide from it. Faithful, blindly faithful to the injunctions of employers' organizations, this majority – some out of resigned loyalty – and you yourself intend to deregulate in order to free us from the so-called barriers to activity. To do this, you are trying to remove social thresholds in companies, even though we know that it is dangerous and inefficient. This is dangerous because, in the wake of labour orders, it is a matter of reducing employers' social obligations according to their size. This relates primarily to obligations in terms of setting up staff representative institutions. Again, contempt for intermediate bodies is evident. This is ineffective, because the positive impact of smoothing social thresholds in terms of economic development and job creation has never been demonstrated. Everything shows the opposite. In a 2011 study, INSEE strongly related the impact of removing thresholds on company size. A survey carried out in Italy corroborates the finding and shows that a recast of thresholds does not create any employment. On the other hand, this old liberal lube will have a real effect: a new setback for social rights, once again sacrificed on the altar of supposed economic rationality. Faithful, obsessively faithful to the financialization of the economy, this majority – some out of resigned loyalty – and you yourself pursue the goal of achieving more introductions to the stock exchange by lowering regulatory constraints. Not only will these new provisions be dangerous for small and medium-sized enterprises, but they will also release a little more the banks which are destined to invest and finance the real economy. More than ten years after the financial crisis, it was regrettable that the Government was not learning from the past, at the dawn of a future financial crisis already announced by a large number of economists. Yet you must know – I have already used the image – that sniffer, I say sniffer financial benefits like white powder never brings anything good. Keynes wrote in the General Theory of Employment, Interest and Currency that "the situation becomes serious when the company is only a bubble of air in the speculative whirlwind. This is a warning that there is still time to follow, even if it is unlikely that you will do so. Without targeting anyone, I would point out that Keynes also wrote, which is very well suited to this bill: "Capitalism is the staggering belief that the worst men will do the worst things for the greatest good of all. To meditate. Faithful, obsessive and blindly faithful to the state's disengagement in economic matters, this majority – some of them by resigned fidelity – and you yourself are proceeding with the dismantling of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations – CDC –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u11	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u12	...even though this institution is the pride of our country. Indeed, far from being an investment fund, it is a public service in charge of protecting the savings of the French. However, through this bill, the role of the Caisse des dépôts is being misappropriated. Today, parliamentarians serving on the supervisory committee are working to protect the savings funds of the French. It is clear that, tomorrow, members appointed by the Minister of Economy will not have the same concern to ensure the general interest. By doing so, you knowingly bring the composition and prerogatives of its supervisory board closer to those of an ordinary board of directors. At the same time, under cover of grooming and clarification provisions relating to the governance of La Poste, your government aims to allow the Caisse des dépôts to take control of La Poste while approaching the operator CNP Assurances. It is a very skilful way for the State to turn away from the majority shareholding of La Poste and thus prepare for the privatisation of La Poste. This rapprochement has implications for the nature of the functions of the Caisse des dépôts, which will now be at the head of a conglomerate with multiple and diverse activities. These upheavals do not occur without reason. With the CDC subjecting itself to the supervision of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the ACPR – provided for in the draft law, it is to be expected that this powerful group made up of the CDC, the Postal Bank, the CNP and Bpifrance will pass, with its 1000 billion balance sheet, under the direct control of the European Central Bank, like other European systemic banking groups. Therefore, how can this restructuring of public financial institutions not be seen as an important step in the French State's new submission to capital and financial markets? In our view, on the contrary, there is an urgent need to create a public financial hub that is inclined to solve the economic, social and ecological problems that our country is going through. Faithful, truly faithful, you are also true to Ronald Reagan's maxim, which claims that "the state is not the solution to our problem; the state is the problem." Wanting to be faithful to this maxim, this majority – sometimes resigned – and you yourself intend to resort to the privatization of strategic companies. The case of Aéroports de Paris – ADP – is the most symptomatic of your approach. This is an economically successful company that allowed the State to receive more than EUR 1.1 billion in dividends between 2006 and 2016, with a margin rate of 14%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u13	Down!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u14	This is a company that, in 2017, welcomed more than 100 million people to our territory, becoming the first airport company in the world. This is a company that remains a natural monopoly of the state, which manages a vital border at the heart of our economic and political capital. Yet you get rid of it in what is to be called a state scandal that will mark our history.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u15	It's still a little exaggerated...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u16	I'm saying a state scandal. Indeed, in spite of common sense and any long-term economic logic, this decision is not aimed at anything other than the satisfaction of large private groups that feed an appetite for the particularly profitable economic model of ADP. For the nation, this is another unacceptable loss of sovereignty. How do you justify this abandonment? In the name of a breaking innovation fund, which must be fed for tomorrow's economy! But with the assets of ADP and French gaming, it would have been as possible to guarantee the solvency of this fund!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u18	The divestiture of these companies is not only an economic fault, a political fault or a strategic mistake, it is also a historical mistake. We know that privatizing a natural monopoly or non-competitive economic activity leads to poor results.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u19	It's in every book of economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u20	We didn't read the same...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u21	Go on, Mr. President Chassaigne...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u22	The scandal of the privatization of motorways is here to remind us. You have nothing to do with it, and despite the opposition of all the political parties in the country, perhaps with the exception of one, you are obstinate. Yes, this bill will undoubtedly date as one of the most successful texts of the neoliberal dogma, taking back in its midst all the old recipes that have led everywhere to the failure and misfortune of the peoples. The Communist Members will face this draft point by point, some of which are that another economic model is possible and desirable. The urgency is real: our citizens suffer every day from these policies, which reduce their aspirations to better days. As I often do, without any provocation, I address myself by concluding with the colleagues of the majority, even though I am not sure that I have a little bit shaken them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u23	They're solid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u24	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] I am speaking to you by giving you this call from Lise London: "Open your eyes wide, do not let yourselves be locked in the certainty, do not hesitate to doubt, fight against injustices"! When I'm more prosaic, I'll say, "Stop letting yourself get bogged down!"
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u25	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u26	I do not know if I will be able to demonstrate the legendary lyricism of President Chassaigne but I will try to have the same force of conviction. We're almost there! Or in any case we are approaching the vote on the PACTE law, this action plan for business growth and transformation. I have known your impatience for many months, minister. We share it on the benches of the majority, and perhaps also beyond. I am particularly aware of the impatience of the companies in our country, which are waiting for simplification measures, the removal of thresholds, measures to promote investment in the productive tool and their growth. But this law is not only for companies. On the contrary, I am convinced that it represents a profound paradigm shift. This law carries a political vision: that of the end of the sterile oppositions on which, in France, our relationship with the company has been formed, the sterile oppositions between capital and labour, shareholders and employees, competitiveness and social responsibility, profit-making and the general interest. This law is tantamount to asserting that the company is part of the solution to the current challenges. We are in the midst of a great debate and the French tell us how much the crisis we are experiencing is also a crisis of meaning. The French company has lost the north and is unable to direct its company project. What is the company project when the French tell us that they work but they don't get away with it, because the work doesn't pay enough? What is the company project when profits increase but the results are not sufficiently shared within the company? What is the project of society when people are asked for their efforts, especially for the ecological transition, but the most virtuous companies, those who make efforts, are not sufficiently distinguished? I believe that Bill PACTE provides, not all of the answers, but some of the very concrete answers to these central questions. First of all, on the essential issue of work, it does so by simplifying the lives of our companies so that they can grow more easily: leaving five years for our SMEs after crossing the threshold of 50 employees speaks to every entrepreneur in our country. Helping our businesses grow by mobilizing more savings to invest in our SMEs, in innovation, is helping them create tomorrow's jobs. To allow an SME to pay interest to its employees by paying, since January 1, 2019, zero social benefits, is a major measure to value the work in our country. This bill also includes major advances to give more meaning, to inject long time into French capitalism. As you know, the Members of this majority have fought a lot and will not give in on this point on the occasion of this new reading: we must take into account the social and environmental issues of a company's activity. Beyond this major change, I am happy to think of all the companies I know and who are waiting for us to create the French framework to be recognized as mission companies. I am certain, it is hundreds, thousands of companies – often small indeed – that will take advantage of this tool to protect and better value their long-term project, the positive impact they wish to have on their environment. I am also very happy when I think of those entrepreneurs who expect us to create the French status of shareholder foundations, these sustainability funds, as we have chosen to appoint them, which will allow them to dispossess their shares of their company in order to guarantee the company's long-term interest. I am committed to continuing to work on the relaxation of the hereditary reserve in order to further strengthen this current of French philanthropy. I know we can continue to work with the executive on this issue. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As soon as we have voted for this text, immediate, very concrete measures will reach the productive fabric of the French economy, but also the employees when they benefit more from participation. The longer-term consequences will require time to transform French capitalism, to embody this "new model of production", this resolutely ecological and social transformation that so many French people call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u27	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u28	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u29	The bill that is being re-read today embodies the commitment to unleash the entrepreneurial energies that we made during our 2017 campaign. This innovative text will free companies from the obstacles that hinder them. I am pleased that it concerns not only large companies or large capital, but also small and medium-sized enterprises. On many subjects, it is going to fly and give smiles to many entrepreneurs, at the stage of the creation of the company, during its existence and at the time of its divestiture. The work of an entrepreneur is to create, operate and transmit, and all these steps are addressed by this text. I am also pleased that this text contains elements introduced by the MODEM Group, in particular the simplification of current account contributions as associate members. Many beautiful things are said, many great theories about capitalism for example, but it is very comforting to know that this text will also solve many practical problems. Our group's contributions also include the extension of crowdfunding to companies whose name includes social or environmental objectives; the introduction of collaborative reverse factoring, which will improve payment times between companies and thus represent a potential leverage of 12 to 14 billion euros; or improving SMEs' access to public works contracts. However, while the simplification of the PACTE bill is welcome to make business more fluid, there are a few points of vigilance that I have pointed out in committee. First of all, if the desire to change the thresholds leading to the obligation to use an auditor can be guided by the desire to simplify the procedures of companies, I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the fact that companies need third parties of confidence, namely the professions of the number and the law. The auditors – I speak freely about this – are and will remain indispensable to corporate groups. Their decisive role in protecting creditors and associates should not be overlooked through the sincere control they operate, especially in the time of the reorientation of savings towards the enterprise. As the economy evolves with the blockchain, it is important to retain in the company the human and expert advice of these trusted third parties. Therefore, Minister, it would be necessary to postpone the entry into force of the provisions concerning auditors by making them applicable only for fiscal years opened on January 1, 2019. This would leave an additional year for the thousands of professionals involved to reorganize their business, and would allow companies to take the necessary steps to enforce the law, as there is a contractual problem. The MODEM Group, aware of the importance of SMEs in growth, considered that the text could be improved on several other points. Consular chambers must have the means to continue their missions to support SMEs throughout the country. The simplification of business start-ups should be further simplified. The deposit of the statutes should be possible by any act which has acquired a certain date and which is controlled by an authorized profession, in order to confer legal personality on an undertaking on the same footing as registration in the register of commerce and companies. Inter-firm loans should be allowed regardless of the form of the enterprise and without any condition of delay, even if this has been increased from two to three years by this text. Share rental should be extended to legal persons in order to develop their full potential. I am ready to help you work on this, Minister. We mentioned the opportunity to set up a mission on this type of participation. Similarly, at the stage of cessation of business, it would be appropriate to authorise the simultaneous taking of two acts of dissolution and liquidation for undertakings which are not the subject of winding-up operations. These are simple measures that speed up business life. With regard to the reform of security rights provided for in Articles 16, 19 and 64, you will have to find a subtle balance between the effectiveness of the security right and the chances of the company rebounding. Can you tell us if you intend to consult the professionals involved in the drafting of orders? Some mechanisms, without being described as a security right, are also intended to ensure the recovery of the receivable, such as the delegation of a debt, the promise of a security right or compensation. Will they be concerned? With regard to the privatizations of ADP, French gaming or Engie, we were reassured by the content of our exchanges and the evolution of the text. We must not caricature or create any amalgam between this type of privatisation and those we have known in the past. We have confidence in the development of this text, although we will be very vigilant to ensure that nothing is forgotten in the specifications to be drawn up in the context of these developments, in particular the return of the heritage to the State at the end of the seventy years. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to welcome an ambitious and reformative text which, although it could be further improved at the margin, will facilitate the lives of those who create growth and employment in our country. You can count on our support and commitment to this ambition for our country's businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u30	We can see you know the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u31	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u32	Minister, the PACTE bill you are introducing wants to transform our economy in depth. As I said at first reading, this is a laudable and respectable ambition, which leads to certain objectives that we share with you and others with which we do not agree. But this PACTE bill contains several provisions – sections 44 to 53 – that launch a privatization program that is unprecedented in its purpose. This is the first time that the French State has launched such a large-scale privatisation of infrastructure. Unpublished, this program is also so because it would bring the state out of capital completely, and not only reduce its participation as was the case in the past. The privatisations that you are considering are not the result of any industrial projects, they meet only one objective: to fill the state funds, emptied by past deficits and which your tax gifts have helped to undo again. I would therefore like to return to the privatization of ADP, about which I had the opportunity to question the Prime Minister in questions to the Government. First question: Do you absolutely need to privatize? The answer is no. You are looking for between 200 and 250 million euros per year to invest them in breaking innovation. To do this, it was enough to amend the organic law on finance laws so that the dividends paid to the State by Aéroports de Paris – 160 million euros – and the French game company – 90 million – would be directed towards this objective that we are many to support. We have discussed this on several occasions, Minister. The total is exactly the amount you are looking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u33	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u34	Dividends paid do not reach 160 million each year!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u35	On the history of the dividends of the last ten years, we are very close to these amounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u36	And in 2011?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u37	My calculation is true over the last decade, but you can add some dividends from other state interests if you want! Second question: Will ADP, owned by private capital, place France in a particular situation in relation to our European partners? The answer is yes. To convince myself, I invite our colleagues in the majority to read the very interesting study The ownership of Europe's airports, published by the International Airport Council. The capital composition of 500 airports in Europe is analysed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u38	These are not comparable airports!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u39	This reading is extremely instructive. France is one of the only countries, with the United Kingdom, Portugal, Slovenia, Hungary and Romania where more than 40% of airports are owned by private actors – today, before the privatization of ADP. In Germany, 53% of airports are owned 100% by the public authorities – cities or Länder – and 47% by a private and public mix. Public authority is still present in the shareholding of German airports, none of which is held exclusively by private investors. The same applies in Italy, no airport is wholly owned by private actors: 20% of airports are wholly owned by the public authorities and 80% by a mixture of private and public. Same in Spain. The study also provides valuable information on the duration of concessions where they exist. Once again, the reading is illuminating: in 56% of cases, the concession lasts between twenty and fifty years; In 3% of cases it lasts more than 50 years and in 7% of cases it is indeterminate. For your part, you propose a 70-year concession for ADP!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u40	That's crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u41	However, ADP is the second largest airport group in the world, managing Roissy and Orly airports, whose combined traffic is almost as high as Atlanta Airport, the world's largest airport. I don't know, minister, if you realize what way you're taking the country. In short, your privatisation will place France among the European exceptions in terms of the structure of airport capital. On the contrary, the vast majority of countries have chosen to keep their hands on their airports, simply because they have fully understood that it is a strategic tool. The third question: what have been the consequences of examples of airport privatization? In Heathrow, only ten regional destinations in the United Kingdom are still served, while there are 27 from Amsterdam – which is managed by ADP – to the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u42	There's Gatwick Airport!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u43	The reason is quite simple: the number of daily flights, and therefore of aircraft passages, is limited by the number of runways and the size of the airport, this will not have escaped you. So the interest of a private actor, who charges airport taxes per passenger, is to maximize their number and therefore to favour long-haul carriers, which carry more passengers by air. The same logic applies to consumers in airport shops. It is therefore apparent that all of these privatized airports favour the largest aircraft, and thus long-haul flights. There is therefore a major risk for spatial planning, inherent in the airport economic model. Today, the public authorities maintain this balance. What about tomorrow? Among the consequences of these privatisations, I would also like to mention the example of Toulouse airport, a fiasco that takes the form of a series of which we have a new episode almost every week. There was supposed to be a shareholder pact that could protect the interests of the State. In reality, this shareholder pact puts the state in a position of weakness. This weakness is such that the public rapporteur of the Paris Court of Appeal – that is, your representative! – now recommends declaring privatization null and void! In this connection, as Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance on State participation, I have asked the State Participation Agency to provide me with a number of details. First of all, I asked for the communication of the draft terms of reference – you said, minister, that you would give it to us –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u44	We only got the summary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u45	... and in particular the manner in which the Government intends to establish the concessionaire's investment obligations. That is the purpose of clause 45 of the bill we are looking at, which deals with the operation of airports by the future concessionee. I then asked for the economic regulation contract, which in particular governs airport charges and by extension the competitiveness of the platforms and of Air France – this is Article 48. I also asked for an impact assessment of the future financial balance of the "double caisse". Indeed, Article 47 establishes a double fund that distinguishes airport revenues – regulated scope – from real estate and commercial revenues. We need a detailed impact assessment of the projections on the financial balance of each fund as they will no longer be compensated. Finally, I asked for projections of the transfer to the State of the property allocated by ADP and of the movable or immovable property acquired during the seventy years of concession – this is Article 44. The duration of the concession requires it. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Minister, we are in a new reading and we still do not have any information on these four points. None, and I don't know if we'll ever have one, despite the commitments you made. The first reading took place in September: the Government and the Ministry of Finance had ample time in six months to provide us with this data. If they haven't been able to do it in six months, I don't see how they'll be able to do it in two or three weeks. However, I would like to give you the benefit of the doubt. In any event, today we still do not have this information, which is evidence of the weakness in which you lock up the state to conduct negotiations with potential buyers. History shows that this weakness of the state to negotiate with the private sector, whether it is governed by the left, the right or the running Republic, is a constant unfortunate for the protection of the public good. These are serious issues, Minister. The management of an airport is complex and cannot be equated with the management of a commercial space as a Secretary of State suggested last Tuesday. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I would like us to try collectively to get out of the political logic that sometimes leads our votes, whether for you or for us as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u46	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u47	In seventy years, none of us will be here to draw the consequences of privatization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u48	[[Smile]] Yes, the rapporteur Marie Lebec!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u49	I wish it to him! But the overwhelming majority of us will no longer be there, or at least not in a position to judge whether this concession has gone well. So we have to make a decision that goes beyond ideology. If the aim is to find EUR 250 million a year to invest in breaking innovation, it is possible, without recourse to privatisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u50	That's not certain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u51	If the objective is to develop ADP, it is possible without going through privatisation. If the goal is to change strategy for ADP because its current development is not right for you, you just have to change the direction of the group: you can because you currently hold 50.3% of the shares. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] But if privatisation serves only to meet an ideological objective, you are driving France in a risky path that will cost us all dearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u52	Mr Jean Lassalle, to whom I would like to remind you that, in fairness with his non-attached colleagues, his speaking time is limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u53	And that the intervention must concern the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u54	I begin immediately, in this case, not without emotion because it is only the second time that I have climbed to the rostrum since my re-election. There was a time when I only needed forty-eight hours! But independence has no price – or rather, it is priceless. All I have to do is go after myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u55	[[Smile]] He never wanted to come in!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u56	[[Laughs]] I am happy to speak about this text because I am one of the many here who have set up their own business. I was a shepherd until the age of 22, when my father considered my brother better placed than I to look after a flock. So I became a Liberal consulting engineer when I was neither an engineer nor a consultant. In the absence of work in France, I went to take care, for my first job, of the clean-up of the city of Bilbao. I then developed my activity, employing up to ten engineers, some architects – in short, an intellectual SME of about twenty people. So I know the subject. Minister, the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts are unhappy. While they should stay close to their territory, they keep moving away. By abolishing the departmental level, you have further removed them from the artisans since they will only exist at the regional level. It's really not good.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u57	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u58	We already have enough difficulty in dialogue, exchange and finding the right partners: why did you distance us so far? The departmental level was relevant, especially for artisans. As for the auditors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u59	They're not happy either.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u60	... their number will necessarily decrease as a result of changes in their designation rules. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but we can still ask ourselves the question of the appropriateness of such a decision at a time when there is so much need to anticipate, monitor, control and watch for fraud. We need the auditors. Changing the designation criteria – 8 million euros in turnover, 4 million euros in balance sheet, 50 employees – will inevitably have consequences. The auditor shall ensure the regularity of the accounts, their sincerity and their faithfulness. It also prevents risks. Finally, one of the changes you are planning for business is the introduction of the concept of the social and environmental issues of its business. The Council of State has been dubious as to the content and scope of the concept of raison d'être. Entrepreneurs are already subject to many constraints, let us be careful not to add too much to them. The machine moves on itself, it is not necessary to stimulate it. In the short time I have left, I would like to set out a few considerations. There is a good feeling, minister, that there is work behind this bill – which I am not surprised at you. You have the will to move forward. Unfortunately, my experience here makes me fear that the lack of resources in public space, as well as the weakness of political power, will block your progress. Above all, others said before me, I do not agree with your privatisation process. You'll have to say whatever you want, it doesn't work. We tried but it was a failure, not to mention that we cut ourselves off from the living forces of the country! When these living forces are in charge of large, regal equipment – airports, highways, ports – everyone is mobilized. What a shame to lose all that money! Think of the indignity of the French ports, in view of what they were! And all you have to do is come to an agreement with the Italians to fight right now...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u61	Please conclude, Mr. Lassalle...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u62	Please, I'll finish in fifteen seconds. We need to train a new generation of bosses. Today, they have given way to very high-level speculators, who are only thinking of making money and money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u64	[[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] It is so much lacking in the caisses of the state and in the public universe, when we would need it so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u65	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u66	We can say, you almost got us used to so much ostracism. I read with fun, just before entering this Chamber, the letter sent by our President, Richard Ferrand, concerning the transformation of our House. I quote: "This development must go hand in hand with the deepening of the rights of the opposition, minority groups and non-attached MPs. As it is said... [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] And yet. As you speak of renewed democracy, of great debate, of listening to the French, here in this House, supposed to be the place par excellence where the national debate is organised, you again abuse your authority by throwing to the faces of unregistered Members a miserable half hour of speaking time to tell you of their proposals. At the end of this general discussion, we will therefore have only a few minutes left to defend the amendments and proposals that we have been making and defending since September. "Lamentable" is the only word that comes to mind to describe this way of doing politics from another time. For once again, not only do you despise our work, but you force the non-attached to remain there throughout the examination of the text, without being able to speak, so that their amendments do not go into oblivion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u67	Very well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u68	There would be so much to say, however, starting with the privatisation of Paris airports. In 2018, ADP officially became the world leader in the sector, accounting for 218 million passengers and 610 million euros in profits, up 6.9% in 2018 – almost 12% of the stock market portfolio of the state. We are far from the management of the Chocolate House! After all, why is it surprising that Emmanuel Macron himself had validated, just four years ago, the sale of 49.9% of the State's shares in the management company of Toulouse airport to Chinese, who are already ready to get rid of it? A fiasco such as the Court of Auditors described this transaction a month ago as failure not to renew. Both employees and the opposition as a whole continue to denounce an "adventure project", a "strategic fault" or an "economic aberration", but nothing does. You do not stop there since you attack Engie by passing through La Française des jeux and why not, tomorrow, La Poste. Like you didn't learn anything from the mistakes made in privatizing highways! But that is not the only criticism that can be made of this bill. You say you want to help TPEs and SMEs, but nothing is planned to improve the minimum weekly working time. Nor is there anything about the social thresholds that stifle businesses, hinder hiring and hinder competitiveness. Instead of raising them to 100 employees, you do, once again, in half measure. As for the innovations you say you want to protect, why not listen to those who talk to you about an accelerated process to finally encourage those who invent, create, to protect their work? Instead, you propose, in Article 42a, a heavy and complex system that will not allow France to impose itself as the unquestionable place of innovation. What about the shops that close their fronts because of the competition of the large areas that proliferate around our cities? According to INSEE's latest figures, almost one in four traders is poor, i.e. they earn less than 1026 euros a month. Do you think that's normal? However, the TPEs are an essential employment pool for our economy. At the end of 2016, according to the score of the Institut supérieur des métiers et de la MAAF, craft TPEs with fewer than 20 employees employed 1.6 million employees. In the absence of support, the TPEs literally desert our city centres. In 15 years, the rate of empty shops has jumped. Yet there are solutions. We're trying to set them up in Béziers and the Biterrois. I had tabled a number of amendments on this subject, but they have all been rebutted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u69	You're not bad! I should include you in my list for the European elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u70	I would also have liked to talk to you, of course, about the chambers of commerce, which you are gradually disavowing when they are, in many of our territories, an indispensable support for businesses. I would have liked to have argued that the chambers of commerce and industry – CCI – could unite without necessarily going through their dissolution. But no, it won't be possible. Finally, I would like to try to convince you that you are making a serious mistake in wanting to regionalise the chambers of trades and crafts, which will simply remove the departmental level and thus the proximity to the artisans. But no, again, instead of a big debate about the future of our companies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u71	Please close, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u72	... we will see a discussion "between ourselves" where opposition will be granted, at best, only a few crumbs. It's a shame for the common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u73	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u74	[[Miscellaneous exclamations]] It's gonna work! He's the best of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u75	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr. Lassalle! And thank you, colleagues, for your encouragement on all benches! For almost everything, it is understood on the benches of the majority that we must wait until the end of the great debate. For the indexation of pensions on inflation, great debate. For the isolation of housing, great debate. For a heavy goods tax, big debate. For new tax brackets for the ultra-rich, great debate. For posted workers, a great debate. For people with disabilities, we saw it here last week, a big debate. For the citizens' initiative referendum, great debate. For counterparts at the CICE, great debate. For zero VAT on basic necessities, a great debate. The chorus is repeated by the entire Government: "We are waiting for the end of the great debate. To such an extent that we wonder why not close the National Assembly... Why not freeze our work, the time of this vast consultation? Why not give us a vacation, go, until the European elections? I'm sure then you'll be running out of plans again! But there, suddenly, to pay for Engie, to pay the French for the games, and to pay, above all, for Aéroports de Paris, we no longer wait for the end of the big debate. Why? Why this emergency? Why sell the Republic's jewels? Why sell businesses that earn money? Why, above all, sell a border? I don't understand, and I'm not the only one. The right side doesn't understand. The left doesn't understand. The Senate does not understand. The Council of State does not understand. Unions don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u76	Lassalle doesn't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u77	Voices everywhere are objuring you. Aéroports de Paris is a public company that works well, makes profits, invests. Frankly, keep it! We listen to you, we listen to your arguments. Oh, my God, they're dull! They're stunted! You tell us, minister, that the role of the state is not to manage dividends. What a great logic: when it comes back, let's sell! You're telling us it's not up to the state to run duty-free shops. But then, get rid of the commercial branch and keep the border! You tell us that half the proceeds of the sale will be used to repay the debt. However, EUR 5 billion out of EUR 2300 billion represents 0.2% of public debt. We measure the urgency and the stakes! We don't understand anymore. Also, suspicion is emerging. Socialist Senator Martial Bourquin asks you the question: "After Nantes, do we have to satisfy Vinci in Paris? We're wondering. By chained duck interposed, the president replied: No, it would be too big, too bright, too stitched with white thread. I asked you – and I keep my request – to set up a register of lobbies at the entrance to the Elysée, which each visitor in the evening, midday or morning would sign and which would be accessible to all citizens. Behind the decisions, one must be able to measure the influences. But I think we need to go beyond this – beyond delivering prebends to the band, beyond distributing the beautiful pieces of France to finance. Around this privatisation of Paris airports, there is today such confusion... We are told that it is no longer privatization, that it is only a concession of seventy years, and moreover that the state will retain shares... I think you yourself don't understand why you need to privatize Aéroports de Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u78	There, we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u79	You yourself don't know why we sell Aéroports de Paris anymore. But you're on duty... You probably know this game, "James said." Under the Fifth Republic, it is "The President said". The president said, we need a fake news law. Then the government prepares a law on fake news and the National Assembly registers the law on fake news. The President said, the solidarity tax on wealth must be abolished. Then the Government prepares a budget that removes the solidarity tax on wealth and the National Assembly registers the budget that removes the solidarity tax on wealth. Tonight, the President said, we need to privatize Aéroports de Paris".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u80	Manu said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u81	I don't allow myself these familiarities...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u82	[[Smile]] Oh, no, not you, Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u83	The government, therefore, is putting the privatisation of Paris Airports in the PACTE bill and the Assembly will register the privatisation of Paris Airports. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] You're gonna do the job, minister. You're going to do it with going, with intelligence and talent, as always. But you could just as well, with the same going, the same intelligence and the same talent, and perhaps even with more conviction, defend that Paris airports must belong to the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u84	He's a real liberal, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u85	I listen to you and I hear a dead language, minister. You say that Paris Airport is no longer a monopoly since there are hubs, that we need to abound a fund for breaking innovation, that we need to provide financial resources for data storage. My feeling is that you don't believe it, that you don't believe it anymore. The French believe it even less, but whatever it is, it will still be done. You are carried, less by enthusiasm than by inertia. When I listen to you, I realize that all of this bill is inhabited by this dead language: "to accompany towards digitalization", "to stimulate the growth of our societies", "to lift blockages", "modernisation", "co-construction", "innovation"... There is the inevitable "liberating businesses," and also the fatal "growth in the service of our economy." You speak a mechanical language, without faith or passion, without imagination, without ambition, that no longer takes the country away, that no longer seeks to take the country away, that no longer cares about having the approval, the accession or even the acceptance of the French. That said, this bill, this language, this airport service reflects a political moment. You don't run anymore, but you still dominate. You know we owe this distinction to Antonio Gramsci. I quote him because, since his prison, since the 1930s, since Italy, it would seem that he speaks of today's France, in his complex language – for, in order for his writings to cross the doors of fascist jails, he constantly used periphrases. To avoid writing Marx's name, he evoked "the inventor of dialectics"... According to Gramsci, therefore, the modern crisis is linked to what is called a crisis of authority. The ruling class has lost its consent, i.e., it is no longer a leader, but only a dominant one, with a pure force of coercion. This means precisely that the great masses have separated themselves from the traditional ideologies, that they no longer believe in what they previously believed. We're living this time. The French' commitment to the yellow vest movement has shown that our compatriots no longer believe in you, that they no longer believe in your speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u86	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u87	[[Rites and exclamations on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] When I speak of "you", I think not only of you, Minister, nor even of President Macron, nor of the Republic in motion. Conversely, fellow walkers, you may even be the latest outgrowth that the French have tried to believe. No, it's a much more general "you." The French no longer believe in you elites, you narrators, you financial inspectors, you leaders, you representatives, you whole class, you who talk on TV,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u88	You're doing movies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u89	... you who present plans, laws, projects, you who swear by competitiveness, you who promise shared growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u90	But do they believe in you, Mr. Ruffin?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u91	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Massively, the French have detached themselves from this speech, from your speech. They don't believe it anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u92	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u93	[["Ah! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] I do not claim here that the French have joined us. No, I do not claim that they believe in our ecological planning or our solidarity protectionism. We can hope that they will one day believe in it, but this is not yet the case, at least not massively. On the other hand, they have detached themselves from the liberal ideology that you carry like a liner that has begun to rotate but continues on its dead trajectory. You've lost your consent. You're not running anymore. Then you only have the dominion, the "force of coercion", as Gramsci says.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u94	Like Ubu.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u95	The police every Saturday, the batons and tear gas, the thousands of protestors injured – a hundred are in absolute emergency –, maimed for life, crippled, storted... What's the matter with the attacks on democracy? What does the Council of Europe call for better respect for human rights? No matter what the United Nations warns about the excessive use of force! From now on, you hold by the force of coercion. You don't run anymore, you dominate. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and SOC. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] The PACTE bill is part of this political moment. The French have detached themselves from your dead language. They don't believe in your measures, they don't hope for it. But Engie will be delivered to finance. The French game will be delivered to finance. Above all, Aéroports de Paris will be delivered to finance. You don't run anymore, but you still dominate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u96	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u97	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u98	At first reading, our colleague Charles de Courson had wished to change the title of this bill and to name it "a bill that contains various economic measures".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u99	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u100	We should perhaps have listened to it, because it is true that with more than 190 articles at the end of the first reading in the National Assembly, 174 at the return of the Senate, this text is a river, generalist and touch-on one, which deals with both the civil code, the company law, the monetary and financial code, the commercial code and the general tax code. It could be anecdotal if this bill did not address common sense and the heritage of the state as well. You will understand, of course, that I am referring here to the question of privatisations, in particular the operations that you are planning with regard to Paris and French Games airports, which we consider to be strategic wrong choices. Since you told us about your intentions, it is very interesting to observe the semantic slide and the evolution of your vocabulary on the Aéroports de Paris file. At the beginning, we heard the invigorating announcement of a new strategy of the shareholder state, which was going to take off part of its portfolio to finance breaking innovation. As if the means allocated to this fund, which ultimately represent only 5% of what the ISF reported, required to sell the French heritage to private power... We then learned, Tuesday morning on France Inter, through the mouth of the Government spokesman, that this would not really be a privatization because the State would in fact retain 20 per cent of the capital. Beyond the interest of this new approach, you will understand without difficulty our astonishment about a measure that we have never mentioned in our debates. The surprise was all the more strong as this announcement came to weaken, not to say undermine, the whole argument built so far around the new strategy and the expected interests of capital placed far less. For forty-eight hours, we have taken another step in surprise and semantics since, on social networks, members of the majority relayed new elements of language. They are no longer talking about privatization or the transfer of shares, but only about a 70-year concession. You will understand that we are somewhat lost in these developments. In this way, one might even imagine that you will tell us earlier that, in fact, you are offering us a public service delegation – why not? It is clear from these changes, Mr Minister, that there is ultimately little economic coherence in this matter, a logic of spatial planning, the management of the State's assets or the defence of the public service. Your approach is different from ours: it is an ideological choice of ultra-liberal essence, which seems to us far from the pragmatism that you claim to be. As our President Valérie Rabault recalled, it is very difficult to give our full confidence in the management of a case that is very similar to that which was led under the former majority by a certain minister of the economy of the time, who had promised us so much is more for the privatisation of Toulouse airport. Today, with hindsight, we see the catastrophe of this operation, which has served only to fatten curious Chinese shareholders to the detriment of an industrial flagship. You will reply that the specifications will allow us to remove our concerns, but the administrative court of appeal in Paris is precisely considering declaring the privatisation of Toulouse null and void for non-compliance with the specifications set by Minister Emmanuel Macron in 2015. So you can try to convince us, but your argument is denied by the facts. There is still time, colleagues. Let us guard against such a decision because, while justice sometimes makes it possible to block such bad choices, it never catches up with all the consequences. However, these consequences are not just economic: they can affect the health of our fellow citizens. This brings me to the privatization of the French game. I will say only a quick word, but how can I ensure that a private actor fights tomorrow with the same strength as the state against addiction and addiction to gambling, even though it is addictive games that have the greatest economic interest? Our colleague, Régis Juanico, will elaborate more precisely on this issue in the debates. There is, of course, positive progress in these various, numerous and plethora of economic measures, even if they are too fragile to our liking. We therefore welcome the fact that the majority have taken up the Senard-Notat report to initiate a transformation of our business model. Again, and with Dominique Potier's leadership, we will defend amendments that will aim to bring your commitments into line with the content of this law, about transparency and the regulation of pay differentials, co-determination, the definition of society and the consideration of its externalities or of society on mission. We are also already satisfied with the progress made in modernising the status of a public limited company with a worker's participation or in raising the right of continuation for the preservation of the status of a craft enterprise. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] In the continuation of our discussions, we hope that, on the other provisions, especially on the new undertaking, we will also be heard in order to improve this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u101	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u102	I would like to respond to those who have been present or absent for a little more than six hours in general discussion. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of the majority, who supported the text with arguments that I found relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u103	You're the one who provided them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u104	I thank in particular Philippe Bolo, Jean-Paul Mattei, as well as Laure de La Raudière for his remarks, Stanislas Guerini for his presentation of the text and all the other members of the majority who spoke. I also want to answer Mr. Ruffin about the dead language. I happen to be, as you know, passionate about languages, complex and modern languages, whether they are French or foreign. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause and "Congratulation! » on several benches of the UDI-Agir, LT, MODEM and LaREM groups]] My speech is not that of a finance inspector: I have never been. Nor is it the case of a senior public servant: it happens that I have resigned from the senior public service, as I believe it should be done by any senior public servant who does politics. It is simply that of a man of conviction, even if they are not the same convictions as yours,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u105	On the CSG, that's all and its opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u106	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... and which, as you will be able to note, has been calling for and defending for years the idea of clarifying the respective roles of the state and companies in our economy. I am doing this today with the same convictions as yesterday, that I am applying now and that I will continue to defend tomorrow. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Now, by means of complex languages and modern languages, I have come back to the mind of Paul Celan's verses that made me think of you: "Make your eye in the room a candle, your gaze a wick, make me be blind enough to light it." I'll let you think about it. I will "land", if I may, by responding to Valérie Rabault on the privatization of Paris airports. Since it is not there, I will limit my answer to a single remark on spatial planning: of all the arguments of bad faith that I have heard, this one is not admissible, and I would not like all our fellow citizens who depend on air connections between Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle or Orly and provincial airports to have the slightest concern. They are already complaining about the rest, and they are right, in the way the services are provided, of the planes that are available to them and of the fact that the reception points are usually located very far from the terminal, fifteen minutes by shuttle, because these lines are considered to be quite negligible. It is therefore necessary to add to the hour or hour and quarter that their transport lasts the 15 or 20 minutes necessary to get from the landing point of the aircraft to the reception point in the terminal! If you are satisfied with this situation, very well, but I believe that it needs to be improved, and this is one of the requests that we will make to the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation, in the framework of the specifications provided to you, to strengthen, consolidate and improve regional links. I will therefore not let it be said that the privatization of ADP could damage small regional lines, which are already badly damaged. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Fasquelle, I knew your arguments, but one of them seemed a little surprising to me: your opposition to the abolition of the 20% social package on interest for companies with less than 250 employees, which you told us was useless and would not be effective. Read the interview with the president of your party, who explains that taxes must be reduced! When we do, you criticize us: you'd better support us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u107	That's not what I said! I said it wasn't enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u108	A little intellectual honesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u109	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I say again word for word what you said, Mr. Fasquelle: "It's not effective!" It turns out that I am very methodical and that I have noted, to the word, the words you have said: "It's not effective, it won't work, it's not because you're lowering the social package to 20% on interest for small businesses that small businesses will pay more interest."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u110	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u111	As you have no arguments, you caricature our words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u112	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As a good Gaullist I am, I believe in the interest and reduction of taxes, and I am not content to say it: the majority does it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u113	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u114	Monsieur Chassaigne – André! I wondered what fly swiped you. Let me quote you, as I did for Mr. Fasquelle, for the sake of accuracy – he is caught alive, but you, it is a fly that has swiped you. You told me I was the faithful servant of the religion of neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u115	For you, it's a compliment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u116	[[Smile]] I didn't take it as such, Mr. Chassaigne! I have only one religion, the religion of France, and only one fidelity, fidelity to the general interest. That is what guided me, like all members of the majority, in the drafting and presentation of this bill. Since you have spoken a lot about religion and dogma, I will tell you that, when I was little, one of the only things that I was taught in this field is that it is easier for a camel to go through the chase of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. This is the religion that I received and, basically, I am quite convinced by these maxims.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u117	Not bad, that quote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u118	To meditate, as you said earlier. The person to whom I would like to answer the most at length – because, without wanting to be jealous, it seems to me that it was the one who best posed the debate – is...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u119	Mr. Potier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u120	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will have the opportunity to reply earlier to Mr Potier, who has participated, and I thank him, in all the debates, in all the discussions in the special committee and with whom we have many points of meeting on certain subjects. We can applause him for that! But I would like to respond to Mr Mélenchon as a matter of priority, because he put the debate – Mr Ruffin did it in his own way – and proposed an alternative to our project. I have listened carefully to the speakers who have spoken for six hours: I have heard criticisms, nuances or oppositions on one point or another, but I have heard only one alternative economic project: that of Mr Mélenchon. That's why I want to ask the questions exactly as he did – but not in fifty minutes, I assure you. I think it is worth showing that there are indeed two alternative economic projects for France, which are opposed, which are not the same and which do not prepare the same future for our compatriots, to which it will then be necessary to decide. Like Mr Mélenchon, I will go back to the origins of the crisis we are experiencing, which is the crisis of capitalism. I do not dispute the fact that current capitalism is not satisfactory. Mr. Mélenchon told me that I should be happy with the economy I find myself in. If I were happy, I would not be a minister of the economy: the role of a minister of the economy is also to improve and transform the economic situation of his country! That is why this majority and the President of the Republic were elected by the French. For the past 50 years, we have experienced three successive upheavals, of which we have not drawn the consequences. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The first was the oil crisis of 1973, which should have served as a signal of absolute alarm about the need for our country to become independent from fossil fuels, so as not to brace our sovereignty over oil-producing countries. That is why I continue to defend nuclear energy and the acceleration of the energy renewal of our country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u121	Not the government you belong to!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u122	[[Same movements]] ... so that we are independent and one of the world's first carbon-free economies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u123	Colleagues, only the minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u124	The Republicans clearly do not accept that economic or democratic reflection in this assembly can be encouraged. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u125	There is no consistency in the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u126	Let us introduce things calmly and calmly! The second is the financial crisis of 2008, which we did not draw all the consequences, neither in terms of regulation nor in terms of the control of financial markets. It is still a third shake-up, which is hardly mentioned when it seems essential to me: that which is linked to the birth of digital giants, which concentrates capital, technology, know-how and our data, which tomorrow will create their own currencies, their own financing circuit and their own market, and which, for the first time in the history of capitalism, are able to compete with the power of the states.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u127	This isn't the first time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u128	For me, these are the three upheavals that we have been experiencing for several decades: energy disruption, financial turmoil, and turmoil linked to the birth of the digital revolution and the emergence of giants that compete with states in power and sovereignty. As for the answers we can give to this reality, Mr Mélenchon answered us very simply: collectivism. I believe, for my part, that between collectivism and liberalism, there is room for a different economic path: that of the transformation of capitalism that we carry, that of reasonable, continental capitalism, which recognizes the place of employees, employees and workers, gives meaning to the economy and the work of enterprises, and leaves room for the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u129	We have to vote Wauquiez!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u130	To build this new economic model and this new capitalism, we must make certain choices, which allows me to specify those we make with the President of the Republic and the whole majority. For we have the merit of making choices that can be challenged, but that are clear and settled. The first choice is whether the answer is exclusively national or whether it is also European. We say, for our part, that the answer can no longer be exclusively national and that this new continental capitalism, reasonable and responsible, must be built on a European scale: that it presupposes the modification of European competition law, that it presupposes a European economic policy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u131	There aren't any.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u132	...that it presupposes the creation of European industrial champions in all fields – artificial intelligence, air transport, rail transport or shipbuilding. This will enable us to assert a different economic model. This also applies to our common currency: if we want reasonable financial capitalism, we must have a reference currency on international markets. Between the dollar and the Chinese currency, there is a place for the affirmation of the euro as a reserve and reference currency on the international scene. This is the first choice: we have the merit of doing it! Two months before the European elections, it is good to know that this majority is clearly committed to a new capitalism defined on a European scale and not just a national one. The second choice is whether we want a strong State or whether we are resigned to a weak State, which is letting it go and letting it go. For my part, I believe in a strong state in the economic field. It must be innovative, capable of asserting its strength and sovereignty in a different way after being so long powerless. It must affirm its strength through regulation as well as by the presence of companies in capital. To guarantee State sovereignty in economic matters, regulation can be just as effective or even much more effective than presence in capital. We will see it with the subject of Paris Airports: to control the security of the air border, regulation and control by the public authorities are just as effective as the presence in the capital of Paris Airports. To ensure the control and regulation of airport fares, the economic regulation contract, renegotiated every five years, with clear rules and sanctions, is just as effective as the presence of the State in the capital of Paris Airports. For rotations, services, curfews, the environment, we can even, through regulation, strengthen what exists by privatizing Aéroports de Paris. Regulation is just as effective in asserting the power of the state in the economic field as participation in capital. The State also has the means, through regulation, to direct finance. So I am convinced that tomorrow, finance will be green or not. It is up to us to define objective rules to know where banks place their capital, i.e. savers' savings: do these capitals go well to the financing of green energies? I can assure you that an objective indicator showing what BNP and Société Générale do with saving savers will be the best instrument for them to choose to save in one bank or another. This requires regulation and not the nationalisation of BNP, Société Générale or the financial system. Mr Mélenchon used the word "planning": I take it back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u133	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u134	The State can very well be planning in a number of areas. What have you done with multi-annual energy programming, you Members of the majority, if not define for the next 40 years what the energy mix will be in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u135	They didn't decide anything: they weren't asked for their opinion on the subject! It's bla-bla!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u136	It's planning. In an area as strategic as energy, which requires as much investment and anticipation, I repeat Mr Mélenchon's words: yes, in terms of energy, planning is necessary and the power of the State must be affirmed. So we are very far from the neoliberal caricature that some would like to impose, to this majority as well as to me. On the other hand, the State must obviously maintain its participation in sovereign enterprises. I want to tell you very freely that if, tomorrow, the French State were to invest more in certain sovereignty undertakings, in which the technologies and know-how at stake are decisive for the sovereignty of the French nation, I would not hesitate for a second: the State would take additional participation in them, because these companies are developing sensitive technologies, innovations and exceptional know-how, and with them it is the sovereignty of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u137	That's what you did with Alstom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u138	We did it with STX!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u139	It is not because we believe that ADP is first of all a commercial enterprise and that the border will continue to be protected by the state that we cannot take stakes in other more strategic companies in terms of their know-how, innovation and technology. Take the example of STMicroelectronics in Grenoble, where I will visit on Friday: it is one of the world's leaders in nanotechnology and semiconductors. The state is involved because these technologies are essential. I do not hesitate to announce 800 million euros of investment in a nanotechnology plan: when it comes to the most sensitive technologies and innovations, the state must put money and public authorities must be on the table. But to have this money, we still have to have the courage to give up participations in companies that are commercial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u140	I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u141	For the state to be strong and innovative, it may be necessary to continue to invest in key innovations: after nanotechnology, I could cite what we have done on a European scale by investing in electric batteries. We have not hesitated to spend 700 million euros on the French side and more than 1 billion on the German side because it seems to us absolutely strategic, for the independence of the French nation, that the batteries of our future electric vehicles, which will represent between one third and half of the value of the car, do not come exclusively from China or Korea, which would put us in a situation of total dependence. They must therefore be manufactured on French soil or on German soil to guarantee the sovereignty and independence of the French automotive industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u142	Where will the raw materials come from?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u143	You see it, proof of it, supporting decisions, supporting decisions, I believe in a strong state in the economic field, but it requires agility and a little courage to make decisions that will finance tomorrow's investments. The third choice, after that between Europe or the nation and that between the strong or weak state, concerns the taxation we want for the 21st century. If there is a decisive element for the economic model we want for tomorrow, it is taxation. I will continue to plead tirelessly for us to tax the companies that make the most profits with our data at the same level as our SMEs, TPEs, small businesses, artisans and traders. Taxing the digital giants means doing justice and efficiency: I don't see why we would tax the big companies that make the most profits less. The taxation of digital giants will be next week's episode, but it is very complementary to the PACTE bill discussed this week. Similarly, we will introduce a minimum corporate tax for larger companies. I cannot accept that French companies pay a corporate tax on our land, even if we have reduced it, while a few large multinational companies, which make profits with French consumers, are returning them to countries where corporate tax is lower to escape tax in France. As part of the G7, we will introduce a minimum corporate tax tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u144	We're waiting to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u145	The fourth choice is whether we want a territory open to all winds, without frontiers, without control at European level, or whether we believe that French and European consumers and businesses should be protected. We can be in favour of free trade and assert loudly that our economic model, our capitalism of the 21st century, our reasonable and responsible capitalism at European level must protect our companies, our technologies and our know-how. We have strengthened the decree on foreign investment in France; We have adopted the European regulation on foreign investment in Europe and we will not let foreign powers take control of technologies developed with taxpayers' taxes by researchers on European territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are the fundamental choices available to us, and this is the economic model that we are proposing. It seems to me to be light years away from the cartoons that we wanted to present during the debates. Beyond what some have rightly said about the growth of SMEs, the simplification of their approaches, the recognition of the work of employees, the raison d'être of companies, the PACTE bill brings an additional stone to the construction of this capitalism of the 21st century, which protects our companies and our know-how, which invests, innovates, unfolds at the national level as well as at the European level. This allows us to become aware of a very simple thing: in the 21st century, the winners will be those who will master technology, artificial intelligence and know-how. The vanquished, the dominated, the vassals will be those who have retained the old features of the economy of the 20th or even the 19th century: they will have no choice but to equip their cars with Chinese or American technologies; their communications will be controlled by foreign powers and companies will no longer realize profits because they will no longer create value, because they will not have innovated, invested, as we propose to do with the PACTE bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u146	Before we come to the discussion of the articles, I invite you to the serenity and listening of the speaker who is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u147	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u148	This is a point of order under Rule 58(1) concerning the proper conduct of our debates. Mr Minister, you have chosen to respond to Mr Mélenchon rather than to the first opposition group in this House, the Republicans. That's your right. You preferred to reply to Mr Mélenchon, who is not here, rather than to the speaker of the Republican Group, who is very present: this is your choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u149	It's a strategy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u150	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] It is a strategy, of course, since the Republic on the move wants to see everything that is neither the far right nor the far left disappear! In this, your approach is quite consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u151	Mr Fasquelle, please keep to your point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u152	In the general discussion, I made thirteen very specific remarks: you have retained only one and you have distorted my point. If we want our exchanges to be calmed down, I ask you not to do so. One cannot distort the speech of the speaker or caricature his thought in an attempt to destabilize him. With regard to the social package, I simply stated – you can check it in the record of the sitting – that what you are proposing did not apply to all companies, which is a pity. So I indicated that it was insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u153	Don't get into the bottom of the debate, Mr. Fasquelle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u154	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I'm restoring the truth. I simply said – I ask the minister to take note of this – that, with regard to the social package, I regret that it does not apply to all companies. In addition, I pointed out that it did not exist until 2008 and that, however, interest was not developed in small businesses: the abolition of the social package was therefore not enough. I wanted to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u155	I should like to inform the Assembly that, at the request of the Government, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, we shall consider as a matter of priority, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m., articles 44 to 54 of the draft law, relating to public enterprises and innovation of break-up. I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u156	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u157	We will examine in a few moments clause 1 of the bill, which has significantly enriched itself over time – in quantity, surely; in quality, we will discover it during the debate! As participative, the development of this seventy-four-section bill, after many contributions, lasted nearly nine months. It was to be welcomed that many amendments had been introduced by parliamentarians or the Government, however, with a flat line: those amendments had been adopted in the absence of any impact assessment. The purpose of Article 1e r is to simplify the procedures for the establishment, modification or termination of an undertaking. The aim is to replace the business formalities centres – CFE – managed by the consular chambers – with an electronic one-stop shop, which will be the interface between the bodies receiving the information collected by the CFEs and the companies – all from 1 January 2021 onwards. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Although things are changing in terms of high-speed broadband, several million of our compatriots still live without internet connection. The problem has already arisen with the obligation to report its taxes online, and although withholding tax has in the meantime become effective, it has been necessary in some sectors to maintain paper returns, to the great relief of many elderly people. The digital divide is still a reality in mountain or rural areas. More flexibility is needed, so it would be good for our companies to make electronic filing optional when creating, modifying or discontinuing activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u158	I have before me two amendments, Nos 323 and 646, to delete the article. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 323.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u159	One of the objectives of the bill before us is to facilitate business creation. The minister and the majority identify an obstacle: the cumbersome steps to be taken and the multiplicity of stakeholders. For our part, we believe that the main obstacles to entrepreneurship are of a different nature. It is first of all accompaniment for aspiring entrepreneurs: choice of the structure and name of the company, designation of the chief executives, determination of the head office, state of the regulation of the underlying activity, accounting and tax options. These seekers also want information about newly created companies: what are the leading sectors? What is the percentage of companies that survive beyond the first year? What are the feedback from entrepreneurs? They also need training in business management, particularly in taxation and social schemes. Finally, the issue of financing and the role of banks, as well as the fear of loss of income, are recurring as factors limiting business creation. This bill does not address any of these issues. It even risks, under the guise of simplification, unnecessarily damaging the accompanying conditions, especially since all the steps for the creation of an undertaking or activity can already be carried out online. Business formalities centres remain clearly identified interlocutors. We do not consider it appropriate to replace them with a completely dematerialised procedure and to make accompanying them optional. To date, we still do not know, moreover, whether the one-stop shop will be 100% public. We cannot silence our fear of the short-term privatisation of these public missions, as a result of dehumanisation of administrative relations. What this bill draws is basically the dismantling of the public service of business creation. That is why we propose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u160	Amendment No 646 is defended by Mr Loïc Prud'homme. Mr Denis Sommer, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u161	Mr. Chassaigne, you have painted a very broad picture of the measures included in this bill, beyond those contained in section 1; This leads me to believe that there will be other deletion amendments! With regard to the single portal, which will allow business starters to register, it will simply replace the current seven CFEs, since today the steps can be taken with the seven administrations or institutions responsible for managing the files. It will transmit to the former CFE – tax services, USSRAF, consular network... – the part that concerns them, and which they will have to validate: thus, the Chamber of Trade will continue to verify that someone who wants to establish himself as a baker has the necessary qualifications. Of course, a physical reception will remain! I would remind you that, on my initiative, we voted at first reading in the special committee on an amendment which insists on the need for accompaniment, including physical reception. When a creator encounters difficulties – he works at home, there is not much network, he is hardly familiar with computer science... – he will be able to go to the Chamber of Trades, he will be able to contact France Active, Initiative France, Réseau Entreprendre, l'Adie – Association pour le droit à l'initiative économique... He will thus be accompanied to prepare his registration file. Human welcome is obviously fundamental! The single portal is an instrument for simplification, but it is not the answer to everything. As far as business creation is concerned, you are right, the fundamental question is that of accompaniment – before, during and after the creation, for long months if possible, but we will no doubt return to it. When you work on a project, you often need funding: if only for that, you usually have to be accompanied. Let us not isolate the one-stop shop as if it were a monster that would dehumanize the relationship between the entrepreneur and his environment. I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u162	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u163	The rapporteur has explained this at length: the one-stop shop and dematerialisation will enable the entrepreneur to concentrate on his/her job, starting with the recruitment of his/her employees; But there is no question in the bill of the support that any business starter can receive from the various networks. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u164	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u165	I will never offer you a dish of lentils, Madam Secretary of State, because I know you don't want to sell your soul. You speak with conviction, with frankness. On the other hand, what would be a great pleasure for me would one day invite you to eat an omelette – one of those very tasty omelettes, with herbs, or mushrooms from my region, Livradois.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u166	Ceps!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u167	[[Smile]] You will realize one thing: to eat an omelet, you need eggs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u168	And you have to break them, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u169	Similarly, the Secretary of State, the chambers of commerce and industry need financial means to continue to maintain physical relations with those, in particular, who want to start a business. In the current state of budgets, these chambers, and in particular their delegations located in our district capitals, as close as possible to each employment pool, to each living area, can no longer afford to carry out their activities! In fact, in real life, digital will prevail. Everything will be dematerialized, and physical contact will not take place, because you have completed what had been started by others: the chambers of commerce and industry no longer have the means to meet the demands of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u170	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 183 and 768. Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 183, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u171	Mr. rapporteur, you live in the world of the Bisounours! Nothing is going to happen as you say. You cut into the budgets of chambers of commerce and industry – 400 million euros less. Today, they are present throughout the country because they want to hold these CFEs. I had no CFE in my constituency; I fought for the Chamber of Commerce to open one. Tomorrow, with the budget cuts that you impose, I know that it will disappear, and with it the human presence. In this rural area, however, we need this support from the companies, which I have obtained from a high struggle. You may well write in this bill that human accompaniment is needed: it is not serious. It's not going to happen like that. The Republicans Group does not oppose the e-window – which, in reality, already exists, since it is already possible to register an enterprise electronically. We stop agreeing with you when you want to systematize it and remove CFEs. We call for the continuation of the CFEs. I hear the objection that you have already made, rapporteur: whoever wants to set up his business can be mistaken, confuse the CFE of the Chamber of Trades with that of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry... Indeed, there are seven, and errors are possible. The aim of this amendment is to maintain the CFEs, with the physical support of business start-ups, so that the public service of business start-up is not dismantled. However, in order to avoid any mistakes and to ensure that the CFEs are fully effective, he said that they welcomed all entrepreneurs indifferently: if a craftsman mistakenly pushes the ICC door, he will be welcomed in spite of everything. This must not be complicated; A little organization must be enough. This text has the ambition to simplify the lives of companies: in this perspective, offer them the choice between an internet approach and a physical one. If you accept this common sense proposal, we can find ourselves and perhaps finally find a common position on one of the key points of the PACTE bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u172	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor in support of Amendment No 768.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u173	The CFEs are very important players in our territories: when they were set up a few years ago, they brought real added value to all the economic actors, at the time of the creation of a company, but also later, during his life and at the time of his eventual cessation of activity. There is a concern today: there is a fear of losing a place of physical reception, of contact with entrepreneurs. I see you making signs of protest, gentlemen rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u174	Indeed, we do not agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u175	But you are planning a mechanism of dematerialization: therefore, there will be no more physical contact! However, it allowed questions to be asked and information to be collected. It's fundamental. I would also like to point out that you are putting another blow to the consular chambers, in particular the chambers of commerce and industry, which have suffered major cuts in their appropriations in recent years. You thus increase the difficulties they are already encountering. Finally, the yellow vest movement raised the question of proximity, of public services in the territories, especially rural ones, sometimes far removed from the seats of the chambers of commerce and industry. It is a strong demand: it is important to establish a grid of the territory, so that public services are installed as close as possible to the citizens, in this case as close to the enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u177	Today, 30% of creators register their business online: they may consider that they do not need to be accompanied; 70% are accompanied. The one-stop shop won't change anything! The only progress we want to make is that there is only one language – while today there are seven. Once again, the information will be transmitted to the former CFE. It is not for us to say that the seven CFEs were a bad thing: it was certainly the best option at the time it was chosen; We are taking a new step today. However, I agree with you that proximity is absolutely essential. We have to guarantee the reception. In all the debates we have had, you cannot deny it, I have always insisted on the issue of accompaniment. The proposals for reorganisation of the consular network, whether they be KICs or chambers of commerce and crafts, are in the direction of a balanced distribution throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u178	I take it from your statement, Mr rapporteur, that the opinion of the committee is unfavourable. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u179	Unfavorable opinion, too. I repeat, the logic of proximity is respected. The electronic tool facilitates the dematerialization of the transmission to the administrations concerned by the creation, modification or cancellation of a company. In our view, this mechanism responds to your amendments because it does not call into question the advisory role that certain consular agencies or stakeholders such as Adie play with business start-ups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u180	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 320, 421, 927 and 1144. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 320.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u181	In your opinion on my previous amendment, Mr rapporteur, you have explained that physical support will remain in the territories because the chambers of commerce and industry will always be present. However, if so, why, at all costs, want electronic registration to be mandatory, and not only optional?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u182	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u183	Maintaining proximity means that it is always possible for those most in difficulty to go to a Chamber of Commerce and Industry to work in a non-dematerialized manner. Dematerialization should not be made mandatory. That seems obvious to me, from what you said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u184	That's exactly what we're asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u185	In addition, you greatly overestimate the digital coverage of the territory. On the day you come to eat the omelette, as I invited you earlier, we will go for a little walk to many villages, where we will be very well received. You will then see that our country has entire territories without digital coverage. Today, people, sometimes called neo-rurals, want to settle in the countryside and create innovative businesses. For example, I knew a publisher who couldn't keep his business in my constituency because digital communication was difficult. I have obtained the figures: in France, about two thirds of urban areas and less than one third of rural areas are covered. That's the reality. I am speaking here not as a percentage of the population served but as a geographical area covered. Making electronic means compulsory therefore poses real problems, to the point of achieving a result inverse to that desired, since this will require movement. Some may even lose their autonomy, simply because they will not have the opportunity to use this route. This could also result in an increase in the fee-paying activity of the consular chambers. Today, the KICs are facing enormous financial difficulties, since their funds have been pumped, their endowments are much less important than before, or they have been included in larger entities, to the point, I said, of simply disappearing in some borough capitals. Their services will therefore be able to become fee-paying. As for those who were already, the rates will be increased. Perhaps you are also behind the head to have this support carried out not to the chambers of commerce and industry themselves but to private bodies, large national groups, which will benefit from the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u186	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 421.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u187	I agree with André Chassaigne's words of common sense. Madam Secretary of State, you are telling us that there will be no problem with proximity. However, I am sorry, the electronic channel is not synonymous with proximity. This morning, during their hearing by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the heads of the four mobile telephone operators struggled to explain to us how they intend to install an additional 5000 masts by 2027 – which we still do not know whether this will be enough for the entire national territory to be effectively covered. We are far from such a blanket. Come and see this in my constituency. You will be very well received! In some villages, people have difficulty accessing not only the Internet but also mobile phones. You tell us that this e-commerce will be great and there will be no difficulties. That's not true. In addition, you ensure that the physical presence will be maintained. Therefore, why remove CFEs? If interlocutors are to be kept, why not make the e-window optional, and keep those who are already accompanying the companies, to the greatest satisfaction of the latter – and they are hundreds in my constituency? I can give you the numbers of my CFE. His head can explain to you the very useful role he plays in accompaniment to companies. The creation of a business is not a small decision: beyond itself, the creator commits his financial means, sometimes even his family. This is a very important decision. The completion of the formalities is an opportunity to engage in a discussion about the project, its business plan, its financing; It may also be an opportunity to give advice on support that the creator may not have thought of soliciting. All this, you erase it from a pen trait, requiring that formalities be carried out on the internet, without considering the interest of proximity. It's a joke to say that a physical presence will be maintained. Today, the chambers of commerce and industry maintain a physical presence throughout the national territory because there must exist CFEs everywhere. But if these are removed tomorrow, it is obvious, given how you cut in budgets, that there will be no more physical presence, without, however, in some territories, we have access to the Internet. Once again, ruralism will pay for it. Although in the course of the great national debate the digital divide and the territorial divide have been denounced everywhere, you have not understood anything. With the decisions you make tonight, you'll make both of you worse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u188	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 927.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u189	To the arguments just put forward by my colleague Daniel Fasquelle, I would add that at present 70% of entrepreneurs do not opt for a dematerialised procedure. As I have already pointed out in the special committee, we have been encountering another difficulty for a few months: artisans in areas where communications are difficult have given up responding to certain invitations to tender, the procedures of which are now necessarily dematerialised. Finally, let us bear in mind the enormous difficulties facing the site of the National Security Titles Agency (ANTS), created to dematerialize the issue of grey cards and driving licences. However, the procedure had been successfully tested in a few departments. Concerns have begun with its generalization, and have remained since then. All these difficulties must be taken into account. No, public authorities are not always able to put in place appropriate mechanisms for the benefit of citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u190	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1144.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u191	[[Smile]] If I wanted to start a business in my village, I would have enormous difficulties, since there is no signal, except in the back of the garden, where I feel like I'm communicating with planet Mars! The regional director of the operator concerned was surprised that I complained about it and instead invited me to enjoy the tranquility that it gives me. It's a way of looking at things! We are of course in favour of making declarations of business creation, modification or cessation, not only by digital means, but we hope that it will still be possible to do so physically with the CFEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u192	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u193	Unfavorable opinion. No, I don't live in an ideal world, and I know, like all of us, the problems of connection and access to the network in my constituency. Ms Louwagie recalled that, although several departments had successfully experienced the dematerialization of the issue of grey cards, there were still difficulties today. So you understand why we gave ourselves until 2022 or 2023 to set up this one-stop shop. We are precisely learning from the difficulties that may have arisen elsewhere and wish to take the time to build this device intelligently, so that it is truly operational. For this reason, the amendments aimed at shortening deadlines in the name of greater efficiency in the administration are absolutely not appropriate. Today, the entrepreneur has to fill out a form. If he is not equipped, he must go to the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce or an association in order to be accompanied. His file is then typed on a computer by a third party, with all the risks of material errors that this implies. That is what we must try to avoid. Once again, physical reception will continue to exist. The creator who will encounter difficulties will be able to continue to visit the consular network, be accompanied and find answers to his questions on the single portal. And anyway, we have until 2022 or 2023 to put in place the new device. Opinions thus unfavourable to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u195	Unfavorable opinion. We have already developed it quite at length, it is only a matter of introducing a dematerialised procedure for the declaration of the creation or transformation of a company. This does not prevent you from keeping a welcome. When the public services moved from the typewriter to the computer, it was not considered that the reception had been abolished by public officials! There will be a dematerialized procedure, with or without a companion. CCIs already offer some means of dematerialization, with computer posts from which to send e-mails.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u196	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u197	All this is not very serious. This morning, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, telephone operators mentioned a New Deal for 2027. Madam Secretary of State, we did not cut into the budget of the administrations when they moved from typewriters to computers, as you are now cutting into consular networks! In the future, KICs will not be able to provide a physical presence throughout the country. They are doing so today because they have an obligation to keep the CFE open. Naturally, they bring them activity. Tomorrow, in my constituency as in a large number of territories in France, without CFE and as a result of budget cuts, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will not maintain the antenna that it had finally created. Whether you are sailing in the world of the Bisounours or that of the Parisian bobos, you are really completely next to the plate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u198	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u199	The rapporteur-general of the Special Committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u200	I attended the same hearing this morning as you, Mr Fasquelle, where there was indeed a question of the coverage of the territory in mobile telephony. You have to be serious. This is about people who will have to connect to the Internet – or go to the ICC – to make an online statement. For that, ADSL is enough! We don't need to go out in the yard of the farm with his Blackberry or his iPhone! To register on this one-stop shop, which will be in service in 2023, you only need an internet connection. If some people really have no access to the Internet or have no capacity to use it – it exists – they will go to the Chamber of Commerce. There, they will be able to meet someone, and from the first day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u201	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u202	Mr. Lescure, by 2022, the Chamber of Commerce will be gone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u203	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u204	That's what's happening right now. Go a little into the field. You have taken a tour of France, you have to undertake a second one in order to realize. You know very well that it will still take a long time before some villages are connected to the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u205	You're exaggerating!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u206	Come to my constituency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u207	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u208	... you will meet the mayor of Rimboval, Beusent, Bourthes, Cavron – I can give you a list of municipalities that today do not have access to mobile telephony or the Internet in good conditions. It's a reality in our country, whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u209	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u210	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The reality is even worse than that. Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, you are talking about ADSL, which uses fixed telephone lines, in particular airlines. It is important to know that our country now has villages, even towns, whole communes that no longer even have fixed telephones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u211	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u212	That's the reality. I'll explain why. Three years ago, I tabled a bill on the maintenance and renewal of the telephone network – it was passed at first reading in the Assembly but was not considered by the Senate. The telephone lines are no longer maintained by Orange. Cables remain on the ground for months. They continue to operate until the day a scrambler passes and cuts the line. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u213	Not in the majority of the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u214	Today, the operators no longer install a fixed line, they refuse to draw from it. A person who wants to set up his business in rural areas must find other ways to have access to the Internet. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Same moves. – Mrs Sophie Auconia and Mr Daniel Fasquelle applaud]] ADSL is therefore not the answer. It's a reality. We have to go to the field. Stop being off the ground! You're not chickens in drums! When I tell a truth, stop barking at me like you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u215	Time...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u216	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You're completely disconnected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u217	There are no 300 Parisian MPs in the group!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u218	It is the communes that are disconnected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u219	The scheduled legislative time gives us great freedom in the exchanges since speaking is limited only by the time allocated to each group. The House is now well lit, and we can calmly proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u220	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u221	The amendment is only intended to allow the file to be filed in paper format. I strongly defend the dematerialization of administrative procedures. However, it is the most fragile who face difficulties. Entrepreneurs who do not have the capacity for abstraction to carry out their online tasks will find themselves destitute. I am warning not about the problems of connection, which will for the most part be solved by 2023, but about the absolute necessity for the CFEs to welcome entrepreneurs who are not in a position to complete administrative forms, whether in electronic or paper form. This does not mean that the latter will be bad artisans or will develop their business badly, they simply need to be helped. You acquiesce in the head, but how many times has the state carried out reforms according to its own needs and not those of citizens or businesses? That's why I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u223	I've already responded to the proposal you're making. The person you refer to will go to a consular chamber where they will be accompanied to register their activity on the single portal. The only difference with the current situation is the creation of a single portal instead of the seven CFE networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u225	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u226	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 496.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u227	The aim of Mr Viala's amendment is to clarify that the Consular Chamber acts as a business formalities centre in accordance with the standard procedures common to the three consular networks. Simplification should not forget the need to strengthen the coordination role of the chambers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u228	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1145.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u229	It should be pointed out that the one-stop shop, resulting from the unification of procedures, is managed by the State since it is a service with national competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u231	The debate has already taken place at first reading and in committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u232	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 291.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u233	In order to maintain proximity, this amendment provides that chambers of commerce shall retain the possibility to verify the craft qualification of the undertaking concerned, in the interest of future customers. There is a concern that the automatic registration of trades by electronic means might mislead consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u235	The amendment is satisfied with the amendments adopted at first reading. I therefore invite you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u237	Same analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u238	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u239	The difficulties in carrying out the dematerialised steps that Mr Chassaigne has pointed out are not a view of the spirit. Some municipalities may be deprived of access to the Internet for several weeks or even months, while being located more than one hour from the consular chamber. There is much to bet – we can take date but I will not be happy to be right – given the regionalization movement of the consular chambers, that entrepreneurs will not find tomorrow the proximity services that are offered to them today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u240	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u241	In order to achieve real simplification, this amendment tends to set a time limit for verifications after which the file is deemed complete, which could be the time limit imposed on the tax administration. It shall be defined by the decree in the Council of State provided for in paragraph 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u243	The debate has already taken place at first reading and in committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u245	Unfavorable notice because the office does not have the task of deciding on the legal validity of the declared elements – I am thus responding to the concern that you expressed in the previous amendment, Mr President, on the verification of qualifications. This verification falls within the competence of the recipient bodies. It is carried out in a manner which is unique to them by virtue of the independence of legislation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u246	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 473.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u247	In order to avoid any ambiguity, Mr Leclerc's amendment provides for the issuance, within a limited period, of an accused-receipt body establishing that the file is complete or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u249	Pursuant to paragraph 9, the single body will issue an acknowledgement of receipt once the final recipients have verified, each for its own sake, the completeness and regularity of the file. In view of the various checks to be carried out, I fear that the deadline will exceed the 48 laid down in the amendment. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u251	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u252	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 497, 743 and 1147. The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 497.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u253	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u254	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 743.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u255	The text does not specify how the consular networks are to be coordinated. The consular chambers are the first interlocutors of the companies. It is up to the legislator to define the respective areas of competence of the three networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u256	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1147.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u257	The wording is the same. It is proposed that the three consular networks be entrusted with the task of centralizing procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u258	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 321.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u259	[[Smile]] I will defend this withdrawal amendment calmly by trying to draw inspiration from Mr Descoeur's calmness, Mr Castellani's phlegm and Mrs Louwagie's cold determination. In the event of difficulties in the implementation of dematerialisation, the amendment provides for the possibility of derogation from the filing of the file by electronic means to be included in the decree. It doesn't involve you very much. If necessary – you say that this will not be the case, we think it may be – the decree will allow derogations. I'm quiet. I have the concern that we are moving together in the right direction without for days a modest member of the opposition like me being taken over by the Members of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u260	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u261	You have not been taken back, Mr Chassaigne, you have teased some Members of the majority by inviting them to go to the field. The members of the LaREM group here are on the ground as you should be. Your amendment may be counterproductive. In your scheme, the business starter, who does not have a connection, sends his file to the consular chamber and waits for the latter to seize it in electronic form. By far I would prefer that he move to the consular chamber, ask for support and that the file be registered directly on the single portal. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u262	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u263	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u264	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u265	I've been doing business for years. Do you know how to complete a P0 or M2 form? All these prints are very complicated to inform. We don't get up in the morning thinking we're gonna settle down behind his computer and start a business! This is a bit more important: entrepreneurship requires a whole process. I therefore find that this debate is rather unreal. I was mayor of a rural commune for sixteen years. I had a business in rural areas. Of course, there are white areas and there may indeed be problems of connection – this is the process you are doing – but the process of setting up a business requires a little more hindrance. Many people will still go to the CFEs for advice and help. The text simply aims to create a modern tool, which will centralize the files. I repeat, this debate seems completely unreal to me. Since you know the field, Mr. Chassaigne, I invite you to take an interest in the printed matter in question. They're pretty complicated to fill in.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u266	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u267	It won't be easier online!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u268	It may be difficult to provide a printout. There is a fairly complicated set of elements: the effective date, the object, the APE code – the main activity carried out. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] To be honest, you're a fieldman, I'm a fieldman, a lot of people here are women and men in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u269	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u270	I believe that your speech, Mr Mattei, is entirely in my view. If the difficulties are such, why impose electronic filing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u271	Yes, it won't be easier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u272	Thank you for developing this argument: it shows that things are much more complicated than the text suggests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u273	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 124 and 854. Ian Boucard, in support of Amendment No. 124, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u274	In its current wording, Article 1e r does not provide for the control of the files submitted by the recipient bodies such as the tax services or the USSRAF – Union for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances. However, considering the acknowledgement of receipt sent by the e-window as a legal validation will be a source of legal uncertainty. That is why it seems essential that all the bodies to which it is addressed should be able to assess the validity and legal regularity of the files submitted. That is what we propose to make clear by this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u275	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 854.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u276	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u278	As I said earlier, this point was clarified by an amendment adopted at first reading, which rewritten paragraph 9 of the article. I invite you to read it and ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u280	I also call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u281	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u282	I have read paragraph 9 at the invitation of the rapporteur, and the amendment does indeed seem to be satisfactory, at least in part. I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u283	Do you also withdraw your amendment, Mrs Louwagie?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u284	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u285	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1146.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u286	In 2013, some 538,000 companies were set up in France, of which 275,000 were self-employed. Three years after their establishment, 66% of enterprises are still active, meaning that one third of them are no longer active. The success rate of companies needs to be improved. All economic actors recognise that entrepreneurs need to be accompanied in their efforts and supported. Therefore, we propose that the words "may be proposed optionally" be replaced by "shall be proposed" in paragraph 11 of the article, which deals with accompanying tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u288	The wording "may be proposed" has been retained because it is not always the entrepreneur himself who physically registers his project; Sometimes he's his agent or a lawyer. However, these third parties do not necessarily need to be informed. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u289	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor to support Amendment No. 453.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u290	This amendment, tabled by Mr Saddier, is intended to replace the term "business papers" with the term "documents", which we believe is more explicit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u292	We have discussed this issue several times. I am confirmed that "business papers" is the term used in businesses, preferably "documents". It's more significant. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u293	That's what they say in business banks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u294	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u295	It's not just an expression of business banks. It is used in the law of 11 February 1994 on initiative and individual enterprise. It refers to very specific things. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, based on a requirement of legal rigour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u296	Mr. Boucard's remark was a low blow!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u297	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u298	Once it is not customary, I support the amendment, because the term "documents" seems to me to be much more elegant than the expression "business papers", which shocks me in editorial terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u299	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 498 and 1148. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support Amendment No. 498.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u300	Why do the provisions of paragraph 19 of Article 1e r concern only the territorial and departmental chambers of commerce and industry of Île-de-France? They may have access to "information necessary for the performance of their tasks, including identifying and contacting companies in their constituency". Why reserve this option only for CCIs in Île-de-France? It should be extended to all KICs present in the national territory. That is the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u301	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1148.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u302	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u303	I call Mr Descoeur to support Amendment No. 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u304	This amendment, tabled by Mr Viala, aims to ensure that each of the three consular networks ensures, within its sphere of competence, the role of CFE.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u306	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u308	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u309	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u310	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 322 and 1149. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 322.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u311	It follows on from the previous amendments. It specifically concerns the chambers of agriculture, which will be emptied of many of their skills. It therefore consists in fully re-establishing these competences. We're heading for a weakening of the chambers of agriculture. We need them, because they play a very important role, and will do so even more tomorrow, given the need to develop agroecology. In particular, they have an advisory function, which goes much further than just administrative support. It is a very bad thing to start weakening the chambers of agriculture by taking away skills. This will have direct consequences, and it will not help us to evolve in this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u312	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1149.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u313	I am not going to overbid from what President Chassaigne has just said. We too want to maintain the business formalities centres run by the chambers of agriculture. They are competent for companies in their sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u315	We do not weaken the chambers of agriculture at all by creating the unique portal. No one can believe that! The person who creates an agricultural holding has a quasi-subsidiary relationship with the Chamber of Agriculture, which helps him in particular for the preparation of the file and the financing. To settle in agriculture is something enormous, in terms of training, from the capitalistic point of view...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u316	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u317	The link with the Chamber of Agriculture is therefore necessarily established. The single portal will not be a handicap for farming rooms. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u318	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u319	In so far as a number of amendments are concerned, I would like to reiterate that the reform of the CFE does not in any way undermine the role of the consular chambers, of the chambers of agriculture or of the chambers of commerce and crafts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u320	We're still stripping the consular chambers a little bit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u321	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u322	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u323	We have already had this discussion in a special committee. Let us say frankly, the Chamber of Agriculture offers services other than a simple aid for the registration of agricultural companies. The agricultural installation records are very complicated, and the agricultural chambers provide a lot of services in this area. There is no question of removing them, and I do not see how we can do it. Forgive me, Mr. Chassaigne, but you see the problem with the little bit of the lorgnette. It is not this reform that will change what the chambers of agriculture are doing for the installation of a farmer, which is a much more complex matter than a simple registration on a portal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u324	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u325	I wish to respond to your comments, Madam Secretary of State. You have to be serious! The reform will change the role of the consular chambers, as they will no longer have to hold the CFEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u326	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u327	You can't say otherwise, I'm sorry to tell you. We are not going to resume the debate we had earlier. In any case, I fully support the amendment, because the installation in agriculture is particularly complex, and there is a need for physical presence, contact, follow-up. However, the CFEs are the motive and pretext for maintaining a physical presence throughout the national territory. You're wrong to want to delete CFEs. When you say that there will be a physical presence anyway, you are not consistent at all. If this is the case, let the possibility of an approach through a CFE in addition to the one-stop-shop approach, as André Chassaigne said earlier. In fact, you know very well, the means of consular networks will diminish as a result of your policy, and the physical presence of consular networks in territories, especially rural areas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u328	And then at the regional level!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u329	...will reduce, whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u330	We have to take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u331	Or, at least, say what you're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u332	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u333	The simple registration function represents, as we all know, little in relation to the activity of an agricultural chamber. However, we know something else, from experience: when you want to weaken an organism, you do it gradually.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u334	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u335	Year after year, the consular chambers suffer blows, which weaken them. They can no longer perform their duties. I've been talking to the presidents of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and that's what they're saying. They were also obliged to delete delegations. These are grouped at the head of department and may be at the level of the region tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u336	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u337	As for the chambers of agriculture, they previously had branches in many small agricultural areas. Some of them have already been deleted. Once again, we move the service away from the user. The weakening of public services – I consider consular agencies to be public services – is done by nibbles. In this case, it is indeed a very small snack – you are right to say it, Mr Mattei – but it is a first step. In a few years, you will see, another bill will go further; the advisory function will be centralized; It will be considered that an agricultural holding is a business like another and the specificity of the chambers of agriculture will therefore be removed. Such a reform is already in the pipeline as far as the courts are concerned: it is a question of bringing farmers in difficulty before the commercial court, rather than before the court of major instance. There is a will to unify. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u338	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u339	The role of the consular chambers, whatever they may be, is to accompany entrepreneurs. With the single portal, we will remove some of the tasks currently performed by the staff of the chambers. They will therefore be able to devote more time to counselling and accompaniment. As Jean-Paul Mattei has said, every creator needs to be accompanied and trained, and we must take the necessary time for this. I too have accompanied creators, and I don't know many who go to CFEs. Today, many steps are taken on the Internet. The rapporteur and the minister recalled earlier: many associations accompany entrepreneurs wherever they are. Where there is no chamber of commerce, there is always a company house or at least a dedicated association. Let us facilitate the task by providing a single portal from the outset.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u340	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u341	Tomorrow, the closure of the CFEs and the abolition of the pre-installation internship obligation will reduce the activity of the chambers, whose existence will be questioned in the departments, given the movement of regionalization that is committed – which can be justified and which you can perfectly assume. On that day, the accompaniment you mentioned earlier, if it depends on a regional consular chamber located at two or three o'clock, or even, in a department like the Cantal, at ten o'clock to go and return from the company, will be far from ideal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u342	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 738.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u343	The amendment is part of the continuity of these exchanges. It is important to take account of the specificities of certain enterprises, particularly those in the agricultural sector. Mr Mattei referred in particular to the difficulty for the young farmers who set up themselves to draw up the dossiers required, for example those covered by the common agricultural policy and which must be completed at the time of installation. All this requires knowledge. It is important that the consular network be adapted so that it can take account of these particularities and provide entrepreneurs with adequate information. This is the subject of Amendment No 738 and Amendment No 736, which will be called in a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u344	Mrs Louwagie, you have already defended Amendment No 736.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u345	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u346	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 500.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u347	This amendment, of which Mr Viala is the first signatory, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u348	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 474.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u349	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u350	On Article 1, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. This request came to me late. In the future, I ask you to anticipate this type of approach. I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u351	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 39 Against 11
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u352	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u353	The amendment seeks to delete Article 2, which is intended to empower the Government to create a general dematerialised register of enterprises, which will aim at the centralization and dissemination of information concerning them. The aim is to centralise information to identify natural or legal persons engaged in an economic activity and to disseminate the information identified. In addition to the need for transparency in trade, these directories allow statistics and research to be carried out. According to the impact assessment, the SIRENE file, for example, "is a reference used as a basis for all statistical investigations of enterprises, surveys or holdings of administrative sources. It is used in particular to draw samples from annual enterprise surveys in industry, construction, trade and services. » The Government would also be entitled within the same period to simplify by order the reporting obligations of companies and the procedures for monitoring the reported information, which is not nothing at a time when opacity seems to be in play. For the time being, the blur is complete, since it seems that the centralized information will then be distributed among the different bodies that would continue to have their own files. In addition, the Government recalled that the single register would contain millions of data and situations to be processed. We do not know who he will be entrusted to. What will become of the monopoly of the economic interest group Infogreffe? What will be the role of the National Institute of Industrial Property, INPI? Will this data be open data, free or paid? For all these reasons, we want this subject to be dealt with by a dedicated text and not by empowerment. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to answer my three questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u355	There is no question of deleting the article, which is intended to empower the Government to take by order measures in the field of law to create a general dematerialized register of enterprises. The scope of authorization has also been supplemented by the Senate, which cites the registers to which it cannot replace: the SIRENE register maintained by INSEE and the local registers maintained by the clerks of commercial courts or equivalents will be maintained. The former is retained for reasons of statistical knowledge, the latter in order to avoid a legal and financial risk to the State. The new dematerialised register will considerably simplify the reporting obligations of companies and ensure greater transparency in the economic life of our country. Its access will be open and free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u357	I also express an unfavourable opinion, for the reasons stated by the rapporteur. I now come to your questions, Mr Chassaigne. Infogreffe is not in itself a monopoly. It is the clerks who exercise a monopoly. The INPI, which now maintains the register of commerce and companies – RCS – relies a priori, as always in this type of situation, on the existing infrastructure. But we are not going to make the questions and answers until we have given the necessary thought to put the system in place. Finally, with regard to open data, I would like to make it clear that, for the record of this sitting, there will be free access for consular chambers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u358	Thank you for the quality of your answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u359	I have before me five amendments, Nos 296, 745, 1150, 550 and 747, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 296, 745 and 1150 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 550 and 747. Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 296, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u360	I regret that Mr Lescure has temporarily left the Chamber, because he would have enjoyed the amendment. He explained to us that on the occasion of his turn in France, he met with business leaders eager for the bill to be implemented. We are proposing that the deadline for implementing the provision should be reduced from 24 to 12 months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u361	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 745.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u362	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u363	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1150.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u364	Same argument as before. The amendment is not allowed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u365	Ian Boucard, in support of Amendment No. 550, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u366	Mr Masson, the first signatory of the amendment, has the following in his ideas. From the first reading, he proposed reducing the deadline for implementation from 24 to 12 months. He was told that such a delay was too short. So he comes back with a new proposal – 18 months – which we think is much more reasonable. Before the special commission, the minister indicated that the administration might not be able to follow. We fully trust the public servants. That is why we believe that the text can be implemented in 18 months. You tell us there's an emergency. If that is the case, we must act quickly and well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u367	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 747.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u368	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u369	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u370	Unfavorable opinion, of course. Ms. Louwagie recalled that, for grey cards, since experiments might not have been carried out seriously enough, there had been many difficulties. The creation of a dematerialised business register will be very complex. One mission made its first findings, but it did not complete its work. I met with its members during the hearings, in order to prepare the text. They stressed the complexity of the project and asked for time to work well. There is indeed a need for consultation with the contents of the current registers. It would, in my view, be a serious mistake to shorten the deadlines. You want, like all of us, a job of quality. Allow our administrations time to complete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u372	I confess that I do not fully understand the purpose of the authors of these amendments. You ask us to work well with chambers of commerce and industry, chambers of commerce and chambers of agriculture. But cooperation will take time. Convergence is needed. We want to do it right. We will act as quickly as possible, but above all we will do so with the consular chambers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u373	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u374	The amendment tends above all to draw your attention to one point: on several occasions, the minister has indicated that the legislative work is taking too long and that our debates in the House are too long. We are only given two to three weeks to make a law, but the administration could take two, three, or even five years to implement it, while amending it by drafting the implementing decrees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u375	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u376	It is in this House that we must make this law and take the time to work well. We are told all day that a great consultation was conducted, which led to the PACTE bill. Now, you claim that the consultation will remain to be done once we have passed the law. We can't understand it anymore. We consult before; we consult afterwards. In other words, today we are deciding that we have not decided anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u377	It's called working together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u378	Then work with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u379	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u380	We're talking about a computer project. It doesn't go up in seconds! We have been working together on this bill for six months. So the discussions didn't start last week. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It takes six months to develop a paper project and twenty-four months to complete a computer project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u381	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1152.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u382	The Liberties and Territories Group, in a desire to reaffirm the confidence given to consular networks, proposes the deletion of paragraph 2. It recentralises the monitoring of enterprises at State level, which is currently carried out by consular networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u383	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u384	I have already explained myself earlier on the maintenance of the registers, so the opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u385	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 57, 112, 138, 679, 702, 896, 955, 1072 and 1247. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u386	I will make a general presentation of our position on this issue. In order for it to deliver the services expected, we would like the single register to make it possible to distinguish between each category. I will focus on the agricultural issue in particular, to get to know it a little bit. The definition of agricultural assets will be one of the cornerstones of the future bill, which the President of the Republic announced, following the movements of opinion, legislative initiatives and the information report on agricultural land that Anne-Laurence Petel and I wrote. It is a matter of consensus. Today I met with trade unions, SAFER – land development and rural settlement companies – and other stakeholders. We need to identify what a farmer is in order to have a unit of measure, allowing us to carry out carefully policies on installation, land sharing, allocation of European resources and social registers. Identification is, for us, the heart of the question. We do not object dogmatically to your proposals to modernise, to consolidate certain devices, but it is essential to us that the possibility of distinguishing between different categories remains. If you can reassure us on this point, we will accept the distribution that you propose between the competent bodies. We are not opposed to modernization of processes, provided that this information is preserved, which is crucial for certain categories. That is why our amendment seeks to establish a list, which you can amend if you consider it incomplete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u387	Ian Boucard, in support of the identical amendment No. 112, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u388	This amendment is also inspired by the desire to preserve the directories of local trades, which allow for the identification of craft enterprises. We therefore propose to specify the nature of the activity – civil, commercial, artisanal or liberal. We believe it is necessary to keep this list – which may, if necessary, be amended by the Government – for all the reasons set out in the summary statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u389	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u390	I do not go back to the subject of the amendment, which was very well presented by Mr Potier and by Mr Boucard. I just want to point out that these identical amendments come from almost all the groups, both the opposition and the majority. I therefore imagine that the Government will be eager to satisfy us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u391	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor in support of Amendment No 679.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u392	In addition to what my colleagues have said, I would like to point out that this amendment, when presented in a special committee, was intended to establish a list of "civil, commercial, craft, liberal and agricultural" activities; It was then objected to that agriculture was a civil activity. We have taken this remark into account and removed the word "agricultural" from the list.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u393	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 702.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u394	Local trade registers are essential tools for chambers of commerce, in particular to identify all craft enterprises, to produce statistics and studies, or to keep electoral lists for consular elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u395	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 955.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u396	The importance of these amendments lies in the fact that, in the territories, the trade registers mark the recognition of the DNA of our craftsmen. They have the particularity of forming the first company in France. That is why it is essential to recognize this specificity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u397	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor to support Amendment No. 896.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u398	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u399	Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor to support Amendment No. 1072.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u400	I propose, by this amendment, to retain the trade registers, which constitute the DNA of the craft sector and the basis of the tasks of the chambers of trade and craft. As a result of the maintenance of registers and registers, the general register should specify the economic nature of undertakings, whether civil, commercial, craft or liberal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u401	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to support Amendment No. 1247.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u402	As our colleague Sarah El Haïry said, craftsmanship is France's first company. That is why it is defended by this amendment on all the benches of our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u403	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u404	The rapporteur can only support it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u405	Mrs Louwagie said so, but I repeat: these amendments aim to clarify the nature of the activity – civil, commercial, craft or liberal – while this classification refers to sub-categories of civil activities. The wording you are proposing, therefore, could not be accepted. That said, there is indeed a need to improve the identification of trades, and I understand the fears that many of you have expressed. That is why I will be in favour of Amendments Nos 309 and 897, which simply aim to add, after the word 'activity', the words ', particularly artisanal or agricultural'. This drafting ensures that chambers of commerce and chambers of agriculture can easily identify businesses within their jurisdiction – it is for these two sectors that identification is the most important. However, this formula does not freeze the wording on the other subjects. In addition, paragraph 2 provides that "Consular Chambers shall have free and permanent access to the information contained in this general register". Opinions thus unfavourable to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u406	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u407	I want to reassure you: I, too, am very attached to craftsmanship. We find ourselves on this subject. The disappearance of trade registers does not call into question the identification of craft enterprises, since Article 2 provides that the general register will specify the nature of the activity of registered undertakings. In addition, the qualification of "craftsman's business" will continue to be conferred by the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendments in favour of the amendments to be followed by amendments Nos 309 and 897, which mention the specific nature of businesses, in particular artisanal or agricultural ones. In addition, each consular chamber will have access to the directory – or part of the directory – that concerns it, which, again, satisfies your request. For these reasons, I invite you to withdraw your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u408	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u409	Mr President, in the light of the explanations given by the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, I withdraw my amendment No 896 in favour of Amendment No 897, which states that the general dematerialised register of undertakings will indicate the nature of the activity carried out, in particular the craft or agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u410	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u411	You want the general register to specify the nature of the activity, "in particular artisanal or agricultural". It seems imprudent to me to mention only these two terms, at the risk of excluding other categories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u412	One writes "in particular".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u413	Of course, but the character of the activity is defined by the APE code, and it seems to me that you are adding to the text. I fear that this will result in confusion and oblivion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u414	No, I want to reassure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u415	These clarifications, in my view, weaken the text. It is sufficient to carefully define the purpose of the activity, which determines the EPA code and controls the connection to the different registers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u416	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u417	I understand the point made by our colleague, but it seems to me that this addition is not unnecessary. To take the example of agriculture, one can be legally active in agriculture without priority being given to the installation, for example because one does not have the required diplomas. Membership in the legal category does not in itself entail any priority in terms of land sharing, access to means of production or allocation of resources. I think that double codification can help simplify. In addition, the text seems to me to be more of an option than an obligation. For my part, I am reassured and therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u418	We come to the same amendments, Nos 136, 563, 698, 761, 953, 995, 1064, 1071 and 1151. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u419	Hope has abandoned me, taking into account the rapporteur's opinion. Even before I am asked to do so, I will therefore withdraw this amendment, which also relates to the nature of the activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u420	I call Mr Perrot to support Amendment No. 563.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u421	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u422	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 698.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u423	In view of the turn of the debate, I shall simply say that it is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u424	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 761.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u425	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u426	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 953.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u427	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u428	I call Mr Laqhila to support Amendment No. 995.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u429	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u430	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor to support Amendment No. 1064.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u431	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u432	Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor to support Amendment No. 1071.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u433	The identification of all craft enterprises is essential to the coherence of the craft sector – a sector that Article 6 of the draft law recognizes as such. In view of the coexistence of the register of commerce and companies and the general dematerialised register of enterprises, the scope of the order must be clarified by distinguishing in the latter those undertakings whose activities are civil, agricultural, commercial, craft or liberal. This distinction, both economic and legal, must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u434	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1151.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u435	We withdraw this amendment in favour of identical amendments Nos 309 and 897 to be followed, to which the rapporteur and the Secretary of State have said they would be in favour, and which we agree with.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u436	We come to the two identical amendments, Nos 309 and 897. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support Amendment No. 309.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u437	We understand that this amendment would receive a rather favourable opinion from the rapporteur. It is intended to specify that the general dematerialised register of undertakings will indicate the artisanal or agricultural nature of the activity carried on by registered undertakings. This is important because the trades directory will not completely disappear. Within the framework of this general register, it will always be possible to identify enterprises according to their activity, in particular craft and agricultural enterprises. This is important for craft companies, as the file is also a tool for promoting the credentials of craft qualifications and accompaniment of professionals in their first steps. We are all convinced of the importance of this tool, which is why I am proposing this amendment, co-signed by several of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u438	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor to support Amendment No. 897.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u439	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u440	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 76, 578 and 1031. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u441	It aims to involve representative professional organisations as closely as possible in the governance of the registry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u442	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 578.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u443	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u444	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor to support Amendment No. 1031.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u445	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u446	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u447	We had this debate last week in a special committee. I do not think it is the role of professional organisations to manage such a register. On the other hand, they will of course be associated with its deployment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u448	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u449	Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u450	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u451	Without wanting to prolong the debate at this time, I find this position quite negative, unpleasant and incomprehensible. What is the problem of involving professional organisations in the governance of this register? Once created, this directory may live and experience malfunctions: it is therefore important that these organizations be constantly involved in the life of this directory, whose missions can evolve over time. I do not see how the association of professional organizations would be embarrassing and do not understand the position of the majority and the Government on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u452	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u453	The rapporteur and I have no position at all. Business representative professional organisations will be involved in the governance of the general business register. This is obvious, but, at this stage, the governance arrangements of this registry need not be defined in this text, since we will intervene by order. But, as I say again, there is no wish to exclude professional bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u454	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u455	Madam Secretary of State, your position has just changed in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u456	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u457	You will read the transcript of the session and you will see that, in your first response, you explained that professional organizations would be associated with the creation, but not with the governance of the registry. You are now saying that they will be associated with its governance: it is late, it is possible to forget some of the comments that were made, but I can assure you that these were your statements a few moments ago. I prefer your second position: you accept that representative professional organisations are involved in the governance of the directory, which my amendment proposes word for word. Since you agree with this amendment, why do you give an unfavorable opinion? Give a favorable opinion, and let us adopt this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u458	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u459	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u460	I have before me eight identical amendments, Nos 56, 137, 461, 564, 705, 956, 994 and 1068. Amendment No 56 by Mr Dominique Potier is being defended. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 137.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u461	Defendant. Its purpose is contained in a previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u462	Amendment No 461 is defended by Mrs Véronique Louwagie. Amendment No 564 was defended by Mr Patrice Perrot. Amendment No 705 by Mr Frédéric Reiss is being defended. Amendment No 956 by Mrs Sarah El Haïry is being defended. Amendment No 994 by Mr Mohamed Laqhila is being defended. Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor to support Amendment No. 1068.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u463	It proposes to keep the directory of trades, which constitutes the DNA of the craft sector and the basis of the missions of the chambers of trades and crafts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u464	The rapporteur, Mr Dominique Potier, has the floor to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u465	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u466	We come to a final set of identical amendments, Nos 128, 228, 992 and 1153. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 128.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u467	He proposed that paragraph 2 should be supplemented by the following sentence: "By delegation, the permanent assembly of the chambers of agriculture shall be responsible for the management and administration of the register of agricultural assets and shall be entitled to use the information contained in that register for purposes of general interest in agreement with its supervising ministry". The idea is not to limit access to the register to a simple consultation, but to allow for targeted searches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u468	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u469	I am of course in favour of the same position, while recalling that the permanent assembly of chambers of agriculture has tools such as the National Observatory of the Transmission Facility, which fully justify the request of my colleague Vincent Descoeur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u470	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 992.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u471	I will go along the same lines as my colleagues: it seems to me that the permanent assembly of the chambers of agriculture must continue to manage and administer the register of agricultural assets and to value all its data, with a view to supporting agricultural activity and defending the common good. The register of agricultural assets lists in a database managed by Chambre d'agriculture France – the national body of the network of chambers of agriculture –, free of charge and without special administrative procedures, the heads of agricultural holdings in France. This mechanism must be maintained, the usefulness of which is proven and the objectives are numerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u472	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1153.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u473	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u474	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u475	The information contained in the single register will of course be available to the chambers of agriculture. They won't have any problems consulting them. Today, the chambers of agriculture do not manage their register directly, since they have delegated this task to the court offices. Opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u476	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u477	I call for the withdrawal of these amendments; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable. Indeed, their objectives – to know which companies are in the agricultural sector and to make this information available free of charge to the chambers of agriculture – are satisfied by the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u478	Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved forward at a rapid pace and considered 143 amendments. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-13-O1176.u479	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Further to the new reading of the Business Growth and Transformation Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
