ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne and others on tax justice by reinstating the solidarity tax on wealth and strengthening the progressivity of income tax (No. 1609, 1699).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u2	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u3	If there is an area where myths have a hard life, it is taxation. I will mention here two myths of a very different nature and scope, which are at the origin of the bill that we are submitting to you today. The first myth lies in a figure that gives an incomplete, if not absolutely wrong, view of our taxation. The tenacious idea that 50% of French people would not pay taxes is certainly the biggest tax chimera. Because household levies and taxes such as value added tax – VAT –, social contributions and the generalised social contribution – CSG – are less visible, attention is focused on income tax – IR – which, unfortunately, is not the most profitable of compulsory French levies. I would like to recall that the return on income tax, which is in the order of 70 billion euros, is almost twice as much as that of VAT, which is estimated at some 140 or 150 billion, and less than that of the CSG, which since 2018 exceeds 100 billion. This is fundamental because it shows the strong symbol of income tax, but also the importance of political acceptance of a tax, i.e. consent to tax. But the news shows that consent is seriously shaken in our country. The second myth was imagined by the Government to justify the unjustifiable. It consisted of making the tax on wealth – ISF – responsible for the exile of the greatest French fortunes abroad. This allegation is not based on any assessment! So we have to fight this other chimera. If it is not new, the fact that we are making is nevertheless essential. Because our tax system has become too complex, the tax debate is often like an expert discussion, which is not acceptable. It is not normal, in fact, that our citizens do not understand how their taxes are calculated. This incomprehension and lack of knowledge contribute to eroded consent to taxation, to maintain suspicion and a deep sense of social injustice. This bill is not ideological. It aims only to strengthen tax justice and to give, in the context of the great national social mobilization that we have been living for several months, an echo to topics of great interest and concern to our fellow citizens. It is imperative that we quickly send out strong signs that we are responding to the legitimate aspiration of our fellow citizens for more social justice. Our country must regain serenity. It is therefore urgent to carry out a major tax reform that will bring all the parts of our taxes to a standstill. The issue is clear: that everyone contributes to the public according to their means. This democratic requirement, in line with the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, must be placed at the centre of our tax system. However, as you can see, the proposals we are making today are limited to two targeted elements of the tax system. Not that we feel that none of its elements should be changed, but that it is necessary to proceed in stages and that the two components we have chosen are the prerequisites for greater reform. Our bill is therefore only a first step towards achieving more tax justice. The focus on the ISF and the income tax does not exempt us from examining other fundamentally unfair taxes that thrive in the shadow of democratic debate, such as VAT and the CSG, which far more severely penalize modest households. I am also thinking of the single flat-rate levy which, under the guise of simplification, was in fact a tax gift to holders of capital income, very often wealthy taxpayers who, as a result, pay only 12.8 % of tax on their financial income, thus eliminating the progressivity of the tax. The evolution of income and wealth inequality in our country alone justifies the two sections of our bill. I will present only two aspects of this. First of all, I would like to stress that wealth inequalities are the most important and structuring of inequalities, especially when these assets generate income. Remember: in our country, the wealth of the richest 10% is 180 times greater than that of the poorest 10%! So how can we not judge that the removal of the ISF was a mistake? When we learn moreover by France Info that the decision to abolish it was hastened by the pressure of the big bosses at a secret meeting held at the Elysée in the summer of 2017, we can only say that it is lent a much more attentive ear to them than to the 73% of French in favor of its recovery!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u4	There was nothing secret! It was in our candidate's program!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u5	Article 1 therefore proposes the re-establishment of the ISF in its form in 2018 before its abolition, as its shortcomings can be corrected in a second stage. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] The removal of the ISF is one of the strong symbols of your political project at the service of the richest. It benefited the 0.5% of the wealthiest households – about 150,000 households – and contributed significantly to the deterioration of tax consent, which was already severely shaken. I would add that following the proposal made by a Democratic nomination candidate in the United States of America to introduce a wealth tax, French singularity so often invoked to suppress the ISF has lead in the wing. And how can we ignore the difficulties that the evaluation of this abolition will pose? Several people who were interviewed expressed scepticism about this. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In any case, there has already been a sharp decline in donations. Would the famous runoff to finance SMEs, which has been so brazen and so promised, have turned into evaporation? Secondly, we believe that it is necessary to make the income tax scale more progressive and therefore fairer. If I believe the amendments tabled and the arguments we have exchanged in committee, this will is not completely absent among the majority elected. Making income tax more progressive: this is the subject of Article 2 of this text. I would point out that this article – I say in brackets here how regrettable it is that we cannot discuss the articles – has been the subject of a great deal of work since the introduction of this bill. We have divided its cost by two – I am speaking here under the control of the Secretary of State, whose services have kindly provided us with an estimate – and removed the obstacles that, we were told, would have been diminutive in constitutional terms for the last instalment of the scale. The amendment therefore proposes a maximum marginal rate of 48%, compared with 50% in the version tabled. I've done this bad grace correction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u6	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u7	... because I believe that the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council must evolve, but I have done so in the interest that we can have the real debate on substance, which the majority will deprive us of. It was important to oppose the Government's policy as a credible alternative that we could discuss. That is why we have made respect for the current budgetary and constitutional framework the first imperative. The amendment I tabled on Article 2 proposes a reduction in the tax on the middle and working classes. In this way, we want to respond to "all those who can't," to a phrase that the Minister of the Economy likes. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Let me once again regret that the majority deprives us of a substantive debate and emphasises a paradox which, if it were not deeply anti-democratic, would be almost laughable: the majority refuses the debate at the very moment of the great debate! The debate is therefore taking place everywhere, except in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u9	By putting forward a motion of rejection, the majority refers us back in line and, in doing so, rejects the voices of all those who wish to contribute to the debate and who have not voted for it. How can we not see contempt, arrogance and sufficiency? Hunt the natural, he's back to galloping! The majority tramples on their oppositions, locks up dialogue, prevents debate and muzzles national representation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u10	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u11	Our tax system certainly needs to be reworked, especially to meet the demands of a changing world and key issues such as the ecological transition. Colleagues, you have the opportunity to send a wonderful signal to society and finally enter the new world, that of greater tax justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u12	Alas, it's in reverse!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I invite you to listen only to your conscience and to give the impetus that the French expect today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u14	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u15	The bill discussed this morning has a legitimate ambition. Tax justice is indeed an indispensable concern for ensuring consent to tax; But even more so, it is a fundamental aspiration of our fellow citizens, and an objective pursued by the Government. Yesterday, the Minister of Economy and Finance introduced the bill on the taxation of large digital companies, which is emblematic of an aspiration to tax justice. However, I do not believe that the bill put forward by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left can satisfy this aspiration. I even think it's a doubly problematic one. [[Rires on the benches of the GDR group]] First of all, it poses a problem of method or timetable. As you said, we are still in the middle of the great national debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u16	We'll be back after March 15 if you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u17	However, you know that the major national debate will take place at the beginning of April in consultation with Parliament, and that taxation – whether it be labour, capital or household taxation – is one of its four main themes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u18	But the ISF was excluded!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u19	[[Rites and strong protests on the benches of the GDR group]] The French have seized many of these themes and they want us to listen to their opinions and proposals. Therefore, why seek to preempt the conclusions of the current debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u20	It's repetition comedy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u21	Colleagues, only the Secretary of State has the floor. Your rapporteur has been listened to in silence and I ask you to allow the Secretary of State to speak under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u22	The major national debate will end on 15 March, and the synthesis of the proposals will be made public in early April. Discussions will then take place in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u23	You'll shut down the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u24	It would therefore be premature to adopt that text. And is it not contemptuous for the French to propose this text when the great debate is not over? Beyond the problem of form, we also have a disagreement on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u25	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u26	I quickly move on to the paradox of proposing an increase in taxes at a time when the French have clearly expressed a ras-le-bol tax. More deeply, I do not believe that the two measures in your bill will strengthen tax justice in our country. You'll allow me to treat them in turn. First of all, you propose to reinstate the property tax, which we have removed in the 2018 finance law, in conjunction with the creation of the property tax – IFI. First of all, I would like to return to the main ambition of the capital tax reform – the creation of the IFI and the introduction of the single flat-rate levy, the PPU – that we carried out at the end of 2017. Far from "giving a gift to the rich" – a slamming formula that can be taken over by the media – it aims to enable our companies to finance themselves better. I recall one obvious fact: without capital, no investment. Without investment, no innovation. Without innovation, no jobs. It's as simple as that...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u27	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u28	...and I remind you that this government is at the service of growth and job creation. I would also like to point out that unemployment has been falling for 20 months. We have therefore created a single flat-rate levy on capital income. We had a complex system, in total contrast to our European neighbours, of which we cannot say that they are all supporters of the least-so-called social. Now we have a simple, attractive system, consistent with those of our European neighbours, which values investment in businesses. We have replaced the ISF with a property tax, so that the most affluent French people are encouraged to invest in our businesses, and our country is more attractive. We have made a clear economic choice, based on economic analysis, not an ideological choice. For that is what it is about: the choice of efficiency, for the use of the French, or the choice of the symbol. What has been the record of the ISF for forty years? Unless I'm mistaken, this so-called miracle remedy has not solved the problem of mass unemployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u29	Neither is the CICE a miracle cure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u30	The ISF did not promote growth. It did not support tax justice or redistribution. Everyone knows that many well-off taxpayers managed to avoid it – you have implicitly alluded to it. And the place of the ISF in the redistribution system was negligible: only 2%, compared with 66% for social benefits and 34% for direct levies. So let's try to tackle the real problems rather than the anecdote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u31	Yes, let's tackle the real subjects!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u32	Although it has not improved redistribution, the ISF has, on the other hand, penalized our economy and constituted a brake on our businesses. It is not by chance that France has fewer middle-sized enterprises, and a smaller family business fabric than Germany. It is not by chance that French companies find it more difficult to finance themselves in equity and are obliged to finance themselves by debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u33	And the banks, they didn't have anything to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u34	[[Mrs Amélie de Montchalin and Mrs Cendra Motin applaud]] You will forgive me for reminding me that their financing cannot depend solely on banks. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] When one knows a little about the operation of the company, one knows that it also needs patient capitalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u35	Well, we are impatient communists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u36	What about Ascoval?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u37	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] And since you are talking about dividends, I would remind this forum that the amount of dividends paid by French companies in 2007 was higher than the amount of dividends paid by French companies in 2017. The facts are stubborn, so are the numbers. In a world where capital is mobile, the real question is whether we want our companies to find capital to grow, grow, and innovate. We have dropped a scarecrow to attract wealth to us, we assume it. We have chosen efficiency rather than symbolism and ideology. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] The legislation provides for an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of our measures. This assessment cannot be immediate – I would remind you that the IFI was set up only in June, as tax returns were made in the first half of 2018. How do you think you can assess the effect of tax reform after six months? Be a little reasonable and rigorous! This assessment cannot be immediate, nor can it be the translation of tax reforms into the economy: let us allow time to see the effects of our reforms on behaviour and on our businesses. You propose, then, to strengthen the progressivity of income tax, from five to nine tax brackets, and by increasing the upper portion of the scale. First of all, I am not opposed in principle to the idea of changing the income tax architecture. The scales have already changed in the past, with the creation of the 45 per cent band or the abolition of the 5.5 per cent band, to reduce the burden of this tax on the most modest taxpayers. I would also like to point out that, in order to defend your bill, you compare changes in instalments with percentages, regardless of the effect of removing the 20% reduction. This amounts, in a way, to comparing cabbages and carrots, which gives the impression that rates have been reduced massively, whereas this is not the case. But in its current structure, it seems to me that income tax is already a very progressive tax. This does not mean that our tax system is perfect, but it would be wrong to generalize, saying that wealthy households do not pay taxes, or not enough. A few figures, also factual: 40% of households do not pay this tax – you are right to say that they pay others...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u38	Yes, VAT!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u39	...and that no household is completely exempt, it's important to remember. Most of this tax – 70% – is paid by 10% of taxpayers, while their income represents only 33% of taxable income. You can pay up to 66% of your income tax, which is a unique case in the world; Because, in addition to the 45% tax bracket, our taxes also include an exceptional contribution on high incomes, and social levies that reach between 9.7% and 17.2% depending on income. The new scale you are proposing would result in more than inappropriate budget slippage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u40	And the CICE, it doesn't lead to a budget slip?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u41	This reform would cost EUR 4 billion in the first year, EUR 21 billion in the second year, and EUR 12 billion in the third year, at a cruising rate. Moreover, income tax is, fortunately, the only means of redistribution in the French system. We have in France a very redistributive system...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u42	You didn't make it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u43	Thank you Communists! Thank you Ambrose Croizat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u44	... rather more redistributive than those of other OECD countries, thanks to direct levies, but mainly due to social benefits. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] This redistribution system works better in France than elsewhere: according to the INSEE figures for 2018, the 10% of the poorest people have, before redistribution, an average standard of living 23.6 times lower than the most affluent 10%; After redistribution, it is only 5.7 times weaker. I do not believe that there are many countries that can boast of such a system of global redistribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u45	Not all countries were lucky enough to have communists in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u46	Thank you for listening to me. I remained perfectly silent during your speech. These figures lead me to one last observation: the core of the problem is not really our redistribution system, it is income inequality. It is for this reason that we have been pursuing the most ambitious policy in 20 years to make work pay better: we have abolished the wage contributions to unemployment insurance and health insurance, as well as the social package on self-interest and participation, since 1 January. In December, we adopted emergency measures, including the challenge of working overtime, the upgrading of the activity premium, and the defied end-of-year premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u47	Anyway, we're swimming in happiness!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u48	It is also for this reason that we are tackling the first of the inequalities, the one caused by unemployment, by the revival of our industry, the reform of the labour market, and the reform of training, supported by 15 billion investments. On the other hand, tackling inequalities also means giving us the means to make big digital companies pay, which today escape their fair share of taxes. I hope that the GDR Group will support the bill on the taxation of digital giants, which has just been introduced in the Council of Ministers, and which will be discussed by your House in the coming weeks. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I think it is this comprehensive policy that will strengthen prosperity, fiscal justice and justice in our country, not the return to the old totem of the ISF, or the increase in taxes, which the French no longer want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u49	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u50	In a few days' time, the great debate that you yourself have launched will come to an end. More than 1.2 million contributions have already been sent to Élysée. Social justice, tax justice, public service, democracy: these are the demands strongly expressed by the French. It's a real time bomb you've got in your hands. Failure to respond to these legitimate demands of the French would cause a serious crisis, an explosion of anger even stronger than the one that shakes France today. Among them, the re-establishment of the ISF is a very majority demand. They are 77% French to demand that the most wealthy participate in the nation's efforts to re-establish its accounts, and in the financing of our public services. This request is perfectly legitimate. For the effort, today, you have asked mainly the pensioners, as if they had not already provided enough, by working forty-three or forty-four years, sometimes in difficult conditions, to then receive pensions of misery. Yet you asked them to make an effort, by increasing the CSG. That is why the Communist, Democratic and Republican Members of Parliament are proposing the re-establishment of the ISF, accompanied by a reduction in the income tax of the middle classes, and its increase for the highest incomes. The removal of the ISF is the very symbol of a policy that gives gifts to the richest while demanding efforts from the most modest. Moreover, it has had terrible consequences for our economy, which is not symbolic: 3.6 billion euros less in the budget, while our hospitals, schools, associations and SMEs suffer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u52	Moreover, the abolition of the ISF, in addition to reducing the state budget, also deprives associations and SMEs of the donations and investments that the richest paid them in order to pay less ISF! Moreover, the ISF, contrary to a widespread idea, does not cause massive tax exile. According to the latest figures sent to us by the Government, the number of tax exiles was exactly 754 in 2015, and 622 in 2016, about 0.2% of the total taxpayers! We're still far from a tax haemorrhage! And no one can assure that they're all gone for tax reasons!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u54	I recall here that the ISF was paid, in 2017, by 358198 taxpayers, whose taxable assets amounted to 1_028,782 billion euros! To take them back 3, 4 or 5 billion or even 6 billion euros, it still leaves them a bit of fat for the future! Conversely, the removal of the exit tax appeared to be a real permit given to tax exile; as well as the existence of tax havens in Europe, which offer a virtually zero tax on assets or dividends. We are telling you, there is an urgent need to exclude these countries, which allow unfair competition in tax matters. Another theory built on sand: the famous runoff! Frankly, who can believe this fable? According to most experts, the effects on growth of the suppression of the ISF will be difficult, if not impossible, to measure. What we know, on the other hand, is to whom this abolition benefits: to the most affluent taxpayers, and more particularly to the richest of them, of course. In a January 2019 note, the Institute of Public Policy tells us that 1% of the richest households saw their disposable income increase by 6.4% with the transformation of the ISF into an IFI. And if we go up to 0.1% of the richest households, the increase rises on average to 17.5%. Then, Minister, raise the SMIC and pensions by 17.5%, and everything will be fine! The need for tax justice is heard everywhere, not just at home. In the United States, a country that is not strictly socialist, Senator Elizabeth Warren, a candidate for the Democratic nomination for 2020, is proposing to create a federal tax on wealth. It is a first in this country, and it is a sign of a real collective awareness. No, we're not alone in our corner when we propose to re-establish the ISF. On the contrary, we are part of the powerful movement that is rising to demand a fairer contribution to those who are already so favored. The eight richest French billionaires hold as much as the 30 per cent poorest in our country. This has never been known in France, except before the Revolution! That is why we remind you of article 13 of the 1789 Declaration of Human Rights, which states that citizens must contribute to administrative expenses "because of their faculties". Yet, for more than thirty years, the progressivity of taxation has been badly undermined, in the name of globalization, of the freedom of movement of capital and, frankly, of a capitalist system that favours capital against labour. The dogma of competitiveness, in which dumping, competition and tax optimisation flourish, leads to an ever lower tax level for the rich, for capital and for large companies. Since the early 1990s, this vision has been reflected in our tax system by a massive transfer of taxes from businesses to households. It has also manifested itself by a continuous increase in VAT and by an explosion of the CSG, two unjust taxes, because they strike in the same way the richest and the most modest ones, and are therefore harder with the most modest ones. Our country now suffers from disorganized, unfair, unfair and therefore contested taxation. VAT thus amounts to EUR 150 billion, CSG 100 billion and income tax only 70 billion. Progressivity of this income tax continues to decline: in 30 years, the number of instalments increased from fourteen to five, while the higher rate fell from 65% to 45%. During the same period, the multiplication of niches and other derogatory devices also emptied the income tax on part of its substance. In total, these niches represent 35 billion euros, i.e. half of its yield. However, these reductions mainly benefit the richest taxpayers. In the face of this destruction of tax escalation, what must be done? First of all, we must stop the mad race in which your liberal Europe brings us, with the tax dumping which results in a continuous reduction of taxes for multinationals, capital and the richest. France must also act on its side, taking initiatives at national level such as the levy at source on the profits of multinationals, much more effective than your GAFA tax – the tax on large digital companies – which will bring peanuts in relation to the extent of tax fraud by multinationals, and not just those of digital companies. We also need to make our tax system more progressive now – I would say even more progressive. That is the meaning of the Communist MPs' bill that we are defending today. This requires an increase in the number of tranches, as proposed in Article 2. The tax rate for the upper tranche, applicable to income above EUR 125,000 per year, will be increased to 48%. The objective is very clear: to reduce the contribution to taxes of the most modest and middle classes, and to increase that of the more affluent households. With this new progressivity, all those who earn less than 4900 euros net monthly will pay less taxes, and those who earn more will pay more. In total, the reform will cost €6.6 billion in tax relief, but we offer you "key-in-hand" financing: restore the ISF and exit tax, and remove the single flat-rate levy! But this bill is only a step. The tax will then have to be made more legible by removing many tax niches. It will also have to be made even more progressive. Making taxes more progressive means immediately starting the decline of the CSG while guaranteeing the resources of social security. Making taxes more progressive means tackling VAT and making electricity, gas and water essential products taxed at 0%. Making taxes more progressive means tackling the upsurge in the wealth of the very rich, which undermines equality. To make taxation more progressive is to include in the Constitution the concept of tax justice in order to strengthen the concept of consent to tax. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] As you can see, the construction site is still very large. It is therefore urgent to open it without delay. That is why we ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u55	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u56	The imposition of great fortunes has long been endowed with an undeniable symbolic dimension, beyond the problems it raises in terms of the balance of public finances. Let us recall the discussions surrounding the creation of the tax on large fortunes in 1982, its abolition in 1986, and the creation of the ISF in 1989. In recent weeks, the demands expressed by the yellow vest movement and the ups and downs of the great national debate confirm the dominance of the themes relating to tax justice. This news gives rise to a number of proposals to reform our tax structure. Such a project can only be undertaken bearing in mind the two components of the principle of equality before taxation: the principle of equality before the tax law and the principle of equality before public office. With this bill, our colleagues in the GDR Group intend to ask again the question of the tax treatment of our most affluent compatriots. Since June 2017, the Government has increased the tax benefits to them. Several studies, including that of the Institute of Public Policy published last October, have clearly shown that the ninety-ninth percentile was the one with the highest purchasing power since June 2017, while at the same time the 20% of the poorest households – those earning less than 545 euros per month – saw their disposable income decrease by about 1%. The immediate abolition of the ISF from the 2018 finance law, i.e. one year ahead of the original date, and its replacement by the property tax coupled with the introduction of a flat tax of 30% on capital income, constituted a strong marker of the tax policy desired by the President of the Republic. These two measures alone represent about EUR 4 billion less for state funds each year, although the performance of the IFI and the PFU is above expectations, as the Minister for Action and Public Accounts told the Finance Committee on 20 February. While in 2018, 17.7 million households shared the benefits of the drop in the housing tax, they are barely 330,000 to benefit from the reform of the ISF. As a result, the average annual gain was around 200 euros for the former, but more than 9000 euros for the latter. However, what about the measures proposed by our colleagues in the GDR Group? Section 1 is intended to reinstate the capital tax in its version prior to the 2018 Finance Act, while section 2 provides for a rescheduling of the income tax. Can these measures alone solve the lack of justice in our tax structure? Would it not be more appropriate to lay the foundations for the taxation of income and capital in the 21st century? We believe that more realistic and appropriate measures should be considered. As you know, we have made proposals to the great national debate to reform our tax system more effectively. We must no doubt return to the reformative ambition of Joseph Caillaux, the father of income tax. Created in 1914 to replace the "four old", this tax has undergone many changes. Its place, role and future are again at the heart of the public debate. With regard to article 2 of the present text, we are puzzled by a quick study of the proposed avenues. Indeed, the rescheduling of the tranches as proposed would not have a major effect on the taxation of the richest French, but, on the contrary, a variable and probably undesirable impact on the middle class. Thus, those with an income of around €2,500 per month would benefit from one of the lowest percentage gains. On the other hand, the biggest winners, still as a percentage, would be taxpayers whose income is slightly above 4000 euros per month, with an expected gain of more than 1500 euros per year. On the other hand, the most affluent taxpayers would be adversely affected by a shift from five to nine instalments. Thus, a person with an annual income of EUR 150000 would have his income tax reduced by more than EUR 500. The turning point between the winners and losers of the reform, if I may say so, would be around an annual salary of 162000 euros, or 15,000 euros per month. It would obviously be difficult to find yourself in such a scenario! This proposal leads to income tax cuts for the majority of households, although these reductions are contrasting, as I have just mentioned. It would result in a decrease in the return on this tax, which stood at €72.5 billion in 2018. Its impact on the balance of public finances therefore raises a number of questions. Moreover, our group believes that readability is, with justice, a condition of consent to tax. In this regard, too many tranches may have the disadvantage of making our system complex. Outside our borders, we see that countries like ours have reduced the number of tranches in recent years. In a constructive approach, the Libertés et Territoires Group believes that there are several avenues for reform. First of all, I would like to refer to the proposal for a law by our colleague François-Michel Lambert, whom I have co-signed, aimed at creating an ecological solidarity tax on wealth. The latter would make it possible to combine ecological issues with taxation of the heritage. The proceeds of this tax would be entirely directed towards financing the energy transition through a dedicated trust account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u58	We are open to all proposals that could enrich this text. In this way, we could consider adding an SME component, exempting investment in companies with fewer than 250 employees. Another way is to review all the tax niches that come to lower income tax and obliterate its progressivity. For example, my colleague Charles de Courson has made proposals to reduce the weight of all niches or to better cap them. Finally, several economists believe that the most effective solution to tax capital and avoid perpetuating socio-economic inequalities from birth would be to reform inheritance taxation. In our group's responses to the major national debate, we proposed reshaping the taxation of wealth and inheritance rights. We are convinced that the French should be given the choice between two solutions: either they pay a tax on the holding of the property from a certain threshold without any inheritance tax, or they do not pay it, in return for a tax when transmitting their assets. A third option, which would be mixed, would be to deduct the tax on the holding of the transfer tax. Such a measure would of course remain targeted at the richest since, according to the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – INSEE – less than 15% of the inheritances exceed the sum of 100,000 euros, which corresponds to the discount for a direct line transmission. You will have understood this: for us, the question of the re-establishment of the ISF is inseparable from a more comprehensive reflection on the taxation of wealth and the financing of the ecological transition – a transition that the Government is slow to begin, despite the climate emergency in which we find ourselves. Similarly, the creation of new income tax brackets is inextricably linked to a reflection on a truly progressive taxation of income. More than just adjustments or backlashes, it is therefore a major overhaul that our taxation needs. [[Paul Molac and Cendra Motin applaud]] The proposal for a law by our colleagues in the GDR Group has at least the advantage of raising the issue of balance and sharing the common effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u59	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u60	This bill addresses two issues: the re-establishment of the ISF and the strengthening of tax escalation. However, it does not integrate tax niches into the progressivity of income tax, whereas the French raised this issue in the great national debate. I therefore propose to discuss this text at another time. As it stands, we are not in favour of it. I would like to refer to the measures that we have adopted and for which we therefore have responsibility. By combining tax efficiency with an objective of solidarity, the reform we have voted for will make tax more fair and redistribution more effective. The ISF's base covered both the financial assets invested in businesses and the real estate assets supporting an annuity economy. With the property tax, we have therefore chosen to tax the property only; The financial heritage, which allows investment in the real economy, which generates jobs and growth, had to be liberated in order to better invest and, ultimately, better protect. [[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us ask ourselves a few questions. Has the ISF made it possible to reduce inequalities in our country? Has it prevented the rise of the unemployment rate in France for years? Has it made it possible to improve the functioning of our justice system, our education system, our police, our gendarmerie and our hospitals? Has it made it possible to improve the lives of our fellow citizens in rural areas or in the priority areas of city policy, which have been witnessing the increase of inequalities for decades? The answer is no. This tax, that totem that you want to brand today, was only used to recover itself or to water budgets here and there without any efficiency. I see it every day in the territories of which I am elected, for example in Trappes or La Verrière, where inequalities have steadily worsened and where the concentration of poverty has been organized, voluntarily or involuntarily, neighbourhood by neighbourhood. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Our fellow citizens do not need to be taken away or remotely guided by false semblances. These manoeuvres, which consist of making the present majority take on the record of forty years of inefficient and ineffective policies, do not fool anyone. To make the French believe that confiscating some will succeed in reducing these inequalities for others is to lie to them. In addition, the logic of capital taxation, in which we are participating, is expanded by a whole range of other reforms aimed at promoting as much as possible a strong economy. In other words, it is about protecting our citizens from unemployment, inequality and injustice of all kinds. These are reforms around a major investment plan. In the field of education, first of all, with in particular Parcoursup,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u61	Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u62	... the duplication of classes in priority areas or the creation of educational cities, which are at their experimental stage. In the area of security, by increasing the budget of the Ministry of the Interior every year since we took over responsibility. In the area of vocational training, with an unprecedented investment plan of around €15 billion, of which €2 billion goes directly to priority neighbourhoods. With regard to housing and emergency accommodation, there too, there is an increase in the number of housing units for the most vulnerable...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u63	We can talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u64	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] ... and a budget that increases, despite the fake news that circulates and the disinformation campaigns that take place. [[Exclaims on IF benches and among non-attached MPs]] In the area of health and solidarity, with the creation of 400 positions of medical workers to be distributed throughout the national territory, the free of charge of glasses, hearing aids and dental care for our most fragile citizens. In the area of economic inclusion, the contract signed between the companies and the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion to facilitate the training and recruitment of people furthest from employment. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] In your text, you also forget to mention the measures taken by this government and this majority, which have increased the allowance for adults with disabilities by EUR 100 per month, the minimum old age of EUR 100 per month and the activity premium by EUR 150 per month.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u65	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u66	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u67	It's gonna piss us off!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u68	This list of actions, which is far from exhaustive, sets the stage for a policy of equality of opportunity and republican success. (Persistent claims on the same benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u69	Colleagues, please. Only the speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u70	Solidarity is therefore always the main word of this taxation of new capital, which we have rethought on the basis of the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u71	It's all right, Mrs. Marquise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u72	Solidarity in efficiency is not a slogan: it is a commitment to responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u73	Why is the people on the street?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u74	This is reflected in the evaluation imperative that we have assigned to this reform. The Capital Tax Reforms Evaluation Committee, which will make its first work in October 2019, is working to monitor this ambition of efficiency, based on tangible and objective data, aggregating all possible data from economic research bodies and public institutions that can shed light on the direction of financial assets. This is a necessary assessment, which demonstrates that our action is thoughtful and responsible,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u75	Irreflexive and irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u76	... and that it only targets one thing: the interest of our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, the bill you are introducing for the re-establishment of the ISF has no legislative purpose other than to maintain a symbol. Symbol versus effectiveness: I trust our fellow citizens and their discernment to distinguish between the order of political marketing and political efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u77	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u78	Disgusted class!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u79	We'd have to clean up here! Why don't you call Benalla?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this text is being examined on your own initiative does not allow you to make constant comments while speakers are speaking. I therefore ask you to respect the speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u81	It wasn't about comments, it was about the expression of a revolt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u82	We are respectful when we are respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u83	You are fully respected, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u85	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u86	For several months, a sling wind has been blowing over France. Overshadowed by the Government's unequal fiscal policy, thousands of French people have worn their yellow vests to say stop the tax machining under whose weight the most modest of our fellow citizens are stifling. This tax burden is not only understandable, it is above all legitimate. With more than EUR 1000 billion in compulsory levies, representing a tax and social levy rate of 43.5% of GDP, France has become the world's tax champion, according to Eurostat and OECD studies published last September. This tax crackdown, directly affecting the middle and lowest classes, has shown the injustice of this Government's fiscal policy. In the hope of responding to the popular grunt that is spreading throughout the country, the deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left group propose the re-establishment of the ISF and the strengthening of the progressivity of the income tax. Dangerously demagogic and totally counterproductive, this bill has only one objective: to transform the most affluent French into real scapegoats of the purchasing power crisis. It is clear, however, that these populist measures, which seek to revive the class struggle in the name of a very dogmatic vision, would be totally counterproductive, since they risk, in the name of tax justice, to drive investment out of France without improving the fate of the most fragile or the middle classes. Moreover, the property tax has not been removed: it has evolved and has been replaced by a property tax. However, this new tax is more damaging for some taxpayers, including those with the smallest assets subject to the ISF. Of course, and we fully agree, it is essential to achieve a rapid reduction in the tax burden, particularly on the most fragile households and the middle classes, but the need for tax justice must not lead to a systematic witch hunt against the most fortunate. It is our responsibility as representatives of the nation not to bring the French against each other. True totem of the left, the ISF is a tax popularized by the French, because it is paid only by a very small number of them: before it was replaced by the property tax, the ISF concerned only 350,000 households. However, the popularity of this tax and the desire to attract the favors of yellow vests should not lead us to give in to the sirens of electorism. This is all the more true since the ISF is an inefficient and unfair tax. Inefficacy, because it is a real repulsive to investment, it makes the capital and tax revenues flee from France. Nearly 4000 taxpayers reporting more than 100,000 euros of income thus left the French territory in 2016. In ten years, France has lost nearly 5000 ISF debtors, resulting in a shortfall of nearly 20 million euros. Moreover, this tax is viscerally counterproductive because it required shareholders of SMEs to sell their companies or the securities they held there to be able to pay their ISF, which ultimately prevented the formation of a stable family shareholding. The ISF is also an unfair tax, because it affects the upper middle classes more than the great and very great fortunes. The latter are developing particularly effective optimisation strategies enabling them to escape from the ISF, such as the creation of companies or holding companies that hold their assets and accumulate income directly reinvested or paid in the form of dividends, which are subject to the single flat-rate levy. In addition, the capping of the ISF mainly benefits the richest taxpayers. Indeed, the amount of tax paid by a taxable person to the ISF – including income taxes, social levies and ISF – must not exceed 75% of his previous year's income: in 2017, this mechanism allowed 9575 tax households to pay a capped ISF, saving €3 billion in taxes. On the other hand, the ISF is hitting some middle and upper middle classes in full. According to the Council of Compulsory Levies, one in five taxpayers submitted to the ISF in 2017 reported less than 51000 euros of income per year, i.e. nearly 80000 households. Even more worrying, 16750 households paid the ISF even though they reported less than 18700 euros of annual income. This is the very evocative example of the peasant of the island of Re: although agricultural land is of great value there, the subjection to the ISF is totally disconnected from the salary that this peasant can pay by exploiting them. Finally, the ISF has lost, over time, its redistributive potential and legitimacy. Designed at a time when the return on savings was high, it could be bearable. Thus, in the era of large-value tax, which was established in 1982, its rates ranged from 0.5% to 1.5%, while the interest rate on ten-year government loans peaked at more than 10%. After its abolition in 1986 and the creation of the capital tax, its highest rate was 1.1 per cent for a ten-year return on government borrowing, which was then more than 8 per cent. Since then, the rates of the ISF have gone up: while the return on government borrowing is below 1.1%, its maximum rate exceeds 1.5%. As a result of this development, wealth returns are no longer sufficient to pay taxes, prompting some taxpayers to leave France or sell their assets or assets. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that the ISF is a moribund tax, which should not be resurrected. Unfortunately, the highly dogmatic replacement of the ISF by the IFI has only accentuated its unfair character, favouring the richest of the richest. While it saves the big fortunes, whose wealth is essentially financial, the IFI assumes the upper middle classes who have invested in the stone. In fact, 40% of the smaller assets subject to the ISF are made up of real estate, compared to 10% for large assets. While we cannot always go back to what has been voted for, under the penalty of inducing a high degree of fiscal instability, this stigmatization of property wealth is nevertheless indicative of the inconsistency of macroism. The Government sees real estate investment as an annuity, whereas in some cases it is a means for a family to pass on capital to its children. The proposed legislation before us is also intended to amend the income tax structure from five to nine instalments to review its progressivity. Over EUR 112990 in annual revenue, the tax to be paid would be higher than at present, with rates of 45 % and 50 % compared to 41 % and 45 % at present. Less than EUR 112990 of annual income, the tax to be paid would be generally lower than at present, through a more progressive and gradual system. This measure aims, in theory, to reduce slightly the taxation of the middle and upper middle classes, in order to increase the taxation of the most affluent tax households. Nevertheless, this new division of tranches is totally arbitrary, not legible, or even quite incomprehensible, because it would directly penalize certain tax households in the middle class, in total contradiction to the objective sought – revenues between 20,000 and 27000 euros per year would, for example, be taxed at 16%, instead of 14% today. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Of course, on the merits, the logic of the measure and the concern for rebalancing that inspires it seem legitimate. However, to claim that income tax is not progressive enough is highly questionable, as it is, in reality, extremely concentrated – and rightly – on the most affluent French people. In fact, less than 47 per cent of tax households are subject to this tax, while 10 per cent of French citizens pay 70 per cent. The concentration is even higher on the upper slices. In fact, more than 40% of income tax was paid by the 2 % of the richest households, with more than 100,000 euros in annual income. Again, the solution must come from an overall reduction in the tax burden, particularly on the middle classes. This is why the Republican Group proposes to reduce the rates of the first two tranches by 10 per cent in order to reduce substantially the tax burden on the middle classes. It is in order to promote these solutions of common sense instead of once again opposing the French by shaking the spectre of the class struggle, that we, the Republicans, will vote against a demagogic and ineffective text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u87	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u88	The bill before us this morning is ambitious because it deals with the main pillars of household taxation: the income tax scale and the ISF. We in the MODEM Group share the concern that has guided you in drafting this text, namely the search for tax justice and the improvement of the redistributive nature of our taxation. However, if we join you in this conviction, we believe that these issues should be addressed without ideology, in a pragmatic way and in a manner that respects the constitutional safeguards that we cannot ignore when it comes to taxation. Since 2017, the MODEM Group has supported the Government in adopting measures to help the most vulnerable, whether it is the creation of a poverty plan with €4.5 billion or the exemption of 80 per cent of the French from the housing tax. Today, our group is fully engaged in the major national debate: as legislators, we will be able to draw on its conclusions, the return of which will take place shortly in this House, to reform our taxation. Let us first mention the figures of the ISF, a tax that our European neighbours, such as Sweden, Germany and Denmark, have renounced because of its counterproductive nature. This tax led to an average of 800 households per year leaving our country, for a loss estimated at between 200 and 300 million euros over the last 30 years, counting the loss of ISF, IR and VAT. Moreover, the largest assets covered by this measure did not pay this tax through legal arrangements, perhaps legal ones, and also the effects of multiple cappings. A government evaluation is expected to arrive soon with the elements of comparison between the former ISF and the IFI. As such, it is premature to want to amend the existing tax law without having these elements, which are indispensable to the task of the legislator we are. This task can only be carried out in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which, in assessing the confiscatory nature of the tax, is based on the addition of the sums due in respect of the various taxes and charges. The principle is known: the requirement of equal distribution of the common contribution between citizens on the basis of their faculties, formulated by Article 13 of the 1789 Declaration, referred to by our colleague Roussel, would not be respected if the tax were to be confiscatory or placed on a class of taxpayers an excessive burden in relation to their contributing powers. However, through several decisions, the Constitutional Council has demonstrated its vigilance on this subject while refusing to set precisely a maximum tax threshold in its case law, which remains variable depending on the species examined. Moreover, the constitutional decision of 29 December 2012 on the 2013 Finance Act established the principle that, while the legislator was able to increase the number of tranches and raise the rate of the ISF, at the same time it subject capital income to the income tax scale and maintained the special rates of social levies on capital income, it was due to the 1.5% setting of the marginal rate of the ISF and the continued total or partial exclusion of many goods and rights from the tax base. Thus, any reform to the ISF cannot be accompanied, according to this case law, by an increase in income tax taxation for the same class of taxpayers, under the penalty of being declared unconstitutional. That is why this bill should be reworked to incorporate these legal constraints. Otherwise, it would be subject to censorship by the constitutional judge. Moreover, as proof of the unpreparation of this subject, you yourself have proposed an amendment to rewrite Article 2 on income tax brackets, with your original scheme causing perverse effects by your own admission. Income tax reform must be undertaken cautiously because, historically, we have gone from seven to five tranches, at the same time the taxation of the middle classes has increased with the end of the universality of family allowances and the modification of the calculation of the family quotient. As such, the overtaxation of the average income you propose is indeed a problem. You are considering an additional tranche, Mr rapporteur, at the marginal rate of 50%. The need to reflect on the scale does indeed seem to me necessary, but we must ensure that we preserve those who, tomorrow, will develop the businesses and jobs that our country needs: the middle classes, which have already been undermined by the tax measures adopted by successive governments. It will also be necessary to reflect on the source levy, which works but risks smoothing tax niches or making their relevance less perceptible by the taxpayer. Moreover, you agreed to it yourself in committee, the ISF is not a suitable tax. The original sin of the ISF, created in 1982 under the name of tax on big fortunes, was that the distinction it made between private and professional wealth was unclear. We have discussed the history of this tax extensively in committee. It was a real gas plant, which was difficult to apply, especially because of the indetermining concept of a leader. A reflection on a new ISF should aim at simplifying it and reorienting savings towards the enterprise and the real economy: any euro invested in the enterprise should be excluded from the base. I am also surprised that you do not refer to works of art, especially those that the public cannot access. That is another point that should be given real thought.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u89	We have tabled an amendment on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u90	Moreover, the tax on wealth has not disappeared since there is the IFI, as our colleague Véronique Louwagie reminded us. Why, in the midst of an energy transition, not to think about the fate of rented real estate over a certain period of time? This would certainly encourage the creation of virtuous housing for energy consumption. At the public sitting, your bill has the same legal flaws as at the commission stage: it cannot be accepted as it is, being far too complex and having too much impact. The issue deserves real reflection, within the broader framework of a finance law, which will allow us to benefit from an in-depth impact assessment, which is indispensable to our work as legislators. On the other hand, you do not expect to receive the single lump sum levy at all. It is clear, however, that an increase in income tax would lead to an arbitration in favour of the distribution of dividends, which are now beyond the scope of income tax. In conclusion, Mr rapporteur, all this shows, notwithstanding the interest of your text, that taxation cannot be dealt with in the context of a legislative proposal and deserves a comprehensive reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u91	Always! We know the song!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. Ms. Cendra Motin also applauds]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement therefore does not support this text but considers it a call to change our taxation, which is indeed necessary. In this regard, I invite you to join the trans-party working group on taxation that I support in order to find shared solutions to these essential issues, while drawing on in-depth analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u93	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u94	Today's fiscal policy, led by the Government, with the complicity of its majority, ardently reinforces the feeling of injustice and partly explains the movement of yellow vests. Indeed, the increase in the CSG as soon as you arrive, the reduction of the APL – personalized housing subsidies – as soon as you arrive, as well as the abolition of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax from your first budget endanger the consent to the tax, which nevertheless guarantees the social cohesion of the country. In order to restore confidence to our fellow citizens, a good step would be to re-establish the ISF. That is why the Socialist Members have launched a procedure for a referendum of joint initiative on this subject in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our colleagues who have joined the process and appeal to the other parliamentarians: if twenty-four parliamentarians join us, the French people will be able to give their opinion on the re-establishment of the ISF. If Michel Rocard stated, at the time this tax was re-established in 1988, that the main problem posed is "the definition of the best balance between the necessary solidarity and economic relevance", it must be noted that both are ignored by your policy. What tax justice when the transformation of the ISF into an IFI is tantamount to dividing its tax base by five, evidencing from any tax the movable assets, yet largely composed of financial securities? This measure is only in favour of the more affluent because the share of movable capital continues to grow with income. What solidarity when philanthropy breaks down? In just one year, donations to associations have fallen by 50%, i.e. by 140 million euros. This accounts for 10 per cent of their total grants, which necessarily affects their functioning and the people they work with. What fairness when the more affluent are twice as many as they were subject to the IFI than they were to the ISF? Indeed, 350,000 taxpayers paid the ISF, when only 150 to 180,000 now pay the IFI. The transformation of the ISF into an IFI is also of no economic relevance. What positive impact on the economy is one entitled to expect when one knows, since Keynes, that the marginal propensity to consume higher incomes is less than that of very low incomes? In other words, an additional euro distributed to the most modest households will have a greater impact on growth than if this euro had been allocated to a household with higher incomes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u95	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u96	In 2015, the International Monetary Fund even demonstrated that a 20 per cent increase in the wealthiest income was likely to lead to a decline in GDP growth. Yet it is for the most affluent people that government policy is unfairly favourable. Not only does this policy weaken solidarity and prove to be economically ineffective, but the Government's argument that the ISF is a source of tax exile is misleading. Indeed, and it is a Government report that affirms this, only 0.2 per cent of taxable persons have left French territory: this is in no way a tax haemorrhage and, moreover, nothing has come to prove that the ISF was the cause. [[Mr. Moetai Brother applauds]] Reintroducing a wealth tax is also an urgent matter for our public finances. This tax was worth €5 billion a year when the IFI now earns only $1.5 billion, resulting in a shortfall of $3.5 billion, more than the budget allocated to culture or official development assistance. According to Secretary of State Benjamin Griveaux, "If a measure we have taken [cost] of public money,... we are not idiots, we are going to change it": the loss of profits for the state coffers being established, it is time to listen to your colleague! Thus, in view of these elements, if the majority argues that this is a symbolic tax, it must be noted that its suppression, enshrined in the theory of runoff so dear to Emmanuel Macron, was ideological. Re-establishing the ISF means hearing the demands of our fellow citizens: According to a FIFG study dated January 6, 2019, 77% of French people are in favour of re-establishing the ISF. It is a question of fiscal fairness which, once again, would help to alleviate the feeling of injustice that undermines social cohesion. Moreover, with regard to income tax, it is urgent to make it more progressive, in accordance with the spirit of the Caillaux Act of 1914. This bill is in line with this by adding four additional tax brackets, which would allow a balance to be struck between proportionality and tax escalation. Indeed, the French tax system tends to be more and more proportional. The so-called indirect taxes on consumption, such as VAT, increase income inequality. Admittedly, the wealthiest people consume more in volume and therefore pay more indirect taxes overall than the others. But, in relation to their income, the level of these taxes is much lower than that paid by the poorest. The explanation lies in savings: while the latter consume almost all their income, the most affluent save a third. Indirect taxes therefore cover only a fraction of their income. However, VAT accounts for more than half of the State's net tax revenues. Similarly, the increase in the CSG and the introduction of the flat tax decided by the Government and its majority have only reduced the share of income tax in national wealth: it represents only 3.3 per cent in France, compared with 9 per cent in Germany and 10 per cent in the United Kingdom. This demonstrates the need to strengthen income tax in the direction of greater progressivity, to counterbalance this regressive, therefore unfair, taxation, which destroys the purchasing power of the most modest. Indeed, a truly progressive tax is better able to reduce relative as absolute inequalities. That is the meaning of this bill, which tends to add new tax brackets. Thus, only the most affluent taxpayers will be affected, not the taxpayers in the first instalments, i.e. the middle classes. In addition, this would be consistent with the spirit of income tax. This was originally thought of as very progressive, so that the most modest could finance their primary needs, while the households with the highest incomes would be heavily taxed, only their savings being affected, not their consumption. The bill before us is fully in line with this spirit, by improving the redistribution of resources, by reducing inequalities more effectively, thereby laying the conditions for genuine vertical equity among all taxpayers. Finally, it fits perfectly in the spirit of Article 13 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789, which states that the common contribution "must be equally distributed among all citizens, because of their faculties. » In the expectations expressed by the French in the big debate or the real debate, taxation has a prominent place. The question of VAT often comes up. Like all taxes, including taxes on fuel or energy, VAT applies without distinction from the consumer. While the value added tax is poorly felt by the wealthiest, it is a real burden for the poorest and sometimes, without even realizing it, constitutes a large part of their expenditure. This is why a reflection on the different VAT rates could be carried out, obviously taking account of European constraints but also of the behaviour of distributors. Lowering VAT rates if the final consumer does not benefit is counterproductive. Studying the reduction of VAT on energy could be a solution when we know that, on average, in 2018, VAT accounts for just over 16% of the total amount of electricity or gas bill from French households: a simple, easily applicable measure that would immediately restore purchasing power to the final consumer. The Government has taken many measures that cost taxpayers and the Treasury billions, some of which were mentioned earlier. The big difference between the abolition of the ISF and a reduction in VAT on electricity and gas is that the first measure benefits a small proportion of the population who is not in need and who has no difficulty in housing or heating themselves. Since this bill is most likely to be opposed by a motion of rejection or a motion to refer it to committee, I would like to take this opportunity to say that the Socialist and related group has tabled an amendment to extend the ISF's base to works of art, which will please our colleague Mattei, and another to re-establish the cap on capping, which answers Ms Louwagie's question. Re-establishing a tax on wealth and increasing the progressivity of income tax, and thus of our entire tax system, would meet the aspirations of our citizens and their concerns. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] The tax issue is and has always been, in our country, explosive. In view of the inequity of the tax measures taken by this government, it is time for parliamentarians to assume their responsibilities. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u97	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u98	We are considering a proposal for a law aimed at tax justice through the restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth and the strengthening of the progressivity of the income tax. Since the beginning of our mandate, the tax issue has been addressed on a number of occasions and our group has always made the same recommendations in this regard. We are convinced that our country and our fellow citizens need a far-reaching tax reform that will have to meet three objectives: first, a goal of clarity, so that every citizen can understand what taxes he or she pays, what level and what it serves; In short, to restore meaning to taxation and to restore the role and place of every citizen in our society, not only through his or her contribution, but also so that everyone knows what the State is doing to him or her. The second objective is tax justice: it takes into account the fundamental principles of solidarity and distribution that underpin our social system and the very functioning of our society. Last but not least, we must share a goal of stability. We must stop constantly returning to these tax issues. Let us together carry out a great reform, stable and on which we could commit ourselves for the next five or ten years. It is no longer tenable to push taxation at every PLF or even at every PLFR. How can we give confidence to investors, entrepreneurs and French people if they cannot know the tax rules that will be applied to them within six months? This is also one of the recommendations made by the Nobel Prize laureate of economy Jean Tirole, on 11 February 2015 before the Finance Committee of the National Assembly, where he mentioned "the need for a bipartisan approach, which will persuade the economic actors that the reforms will be stable. » I come to the bill. It proposes the pure and simple restoration of the ISF, as it existed before it was transformed into a tax on IFI property. It is indeed important to use the right terms: the ISF has not been removed as can be understood, it has been reformed to only weigh on the real estate assets. So there is still a tax on wealth in France. Restoring the ISF in its old form cannot be satisfactory: to go back after just a year, without taking the time to assess the economic benefits, seems to us quite premature and would only fuel the instability that I mentioned earlier, which is a great weakness for our economy and hinders the investments of our companies. Furthermore, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, your main objective of taxing large assets is missed in advance since the largest fortunes escaped the old version of the ISF: out of the fifty largest French fortunes, eleven did not pay the ISF! During the discussion of the finance bill for 2018, the UDI-Agir and independent group supported this reform of the ISF, a French specificity that undermined the attractiveness of our country, both in our territory and abroad. In fact, the majority of our neighbours, including Germany, Denmark and Sweden, have given up such a tax, and I think it is not for nothing. It is obviously necessary to compare what is comparable, but when choices prove to be wise, there is no reason to procrastinate. The ISF pushed about 800 households a year, more or less wealthy, to leave our country. This may seem small, but the cost of these departures over the last 30 years has been estimated at almost EUR 200 billion, as the revenue of ISF not collected because of their departure must be added to the loss of income tax, CSG and VAT revenues. These individuals are mostly entrepreneurs who have succeeded in creating and selling their business. evading them by too much taxation leads to a loss of investment, intelligence and skills for our country, which are essential to our economic attractiveness. The ISF therefore contributed to the disappearance of the French entrepreneurial fabric and affected the potential of French growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u99	The ISF is for nothing in what happened to Alstom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u100	However, the first victims of a weakened economy are those who find it difficult to find a job because of a lower qualification. In addition, an evaluation is planned by September to verify that the removal of the ISF has enabled the investment of less taxed money in our economy and a better distribution of newly created growth. We will then draw the consequences, probably in the context of the next FLP, but currently the re-establishment of the FSI would expose us to the risk of losing confidence again. This text also proposes to make the income tax scale more progressive, which, in your view, would allow for a better distribution of the tax effort among all French people. If the progressivity of income tax can be discussed, what you are proposing is far too costly for our public finances: about €9 billion in revenue losses, three times as much as the recovery of the ISF in its earlier version, as you propose. You know that we cannot support such a worsening of the public deficit. It is more than time to stop the hemorrhage in terms of public spending. At this rate, what are we going to leave to our children if not a bankrupt country, which will have lost all its investment capacities, already drastically undermined? In view of the findings I have just made, you will have understood that we will not support this bill, but again I would like to see a more comprehensive work, a genuine reflection on taxation. There are many questions, but we have been able to see how much the tax blow has led to misunderstanding and rejection: in 18 months, the majority has affected the ISF, the CSG, the housing tax – TH –, the internal consumption tax on energy products – TICEP –, the tax niches, the biting ceilings of the affected taxes that are no longer affected, and I am moving on, without ever giving back a global meaning either to French taxation or even to these reforms. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and MODEM groups]] Our role is obviously to make strong decisions and we are ready to accompany the majority in this direction, but we must learn the right lessons from what the French express: let us give meaning to taxation, let us rebuild together the consent to tax, the pillar of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u101	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u102	My presence at this rostrum reflects first of all the total support of the group of France for the proposed law of our Communist comrades. We take every opportunity, as we have done recently with the Socialist Group's proposal, to restore taxes on wealth. I have twice been the candidate of the communists in the presidential election and I fully acknowledge myself in the proposal that they are defending today since it is the one that we jointly defended in these elections, and which, in view of the popular favor that she has known, deserves better than being swept away with a back of hand as an absurd – or demagogic idea, as I have heard before. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] That's why at this moment I'm not going to give you an encrypted report. I have already done so in this rostrum and my Communist comrades have just done so, exhausting all the arguments on the subject. A society can only function on the condition that those who share destiny and fate, as is the case in the republican homeland, identify with one another and have the feeling that all participate in the same efforts. It is therefore not a technical question but a question of taxation, a subsidiary question that should be included on the margins of business accounts in order to determine whether this is going better or less well. That's not the point. We live together; We have to share the effort. This is what the French have been saying since 1789 and even for much longer. That is why they felt as a shock the abolition of the tax on wealth. If you had eliminated it at a time when unemployment would have fallen dramatically, at a time when poverty would not have affected more than 9 million people, perhaps they would have understood it differently, but they felt that at the time of the worst pain, there was the time and the way to relieve the effort of those who provide little for others. You can't ignore that shock. And don't say that the measure will improve the situation. In a moment, I will remind you why this is impossible. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] The French knew what this sum represented because we have undertaken, as is our duty, to tell them. No, the abolition of the tax on wealth is not nothing: it is 75000 social housing that cannot be created, 70000 places in crèche that cannot be opened, 60000 teachers that cannot be recruited and the price of 50 hospitals. It's not nothing! It's a huge amount of money. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In addition, this was done at the worst moment, when you asked people to pay more to move from one place to another by increasing fuel taxes. Access to services that depend on this mobility was made more difficult and costly. People knew they were going to have to arbitrate between the gasoline they would put in their tank and the food they would buy. That's when the wealth tax was cut, the worst! You don't ask the poorest people for extra effort when you're pampering the richest, who never send the elevator back to the mass of people. The French see clearly the implausible situation which has been achieved throughout Europe, and which is not spoken of often enough in this rostrum. With the tax dumping that exists in Europe, – methodically organised because, given the inadequacy of the structural funds, it is thought that each country will afford itself the necessary investments by attracting to it businesses and fortunes and lowering the level of taxation that applies to them –, everywhere, mechanically, taxes are exploding, which are the tax that everyone pays, as my comrade Jean-Paul Dufrègne pointed out very well about VAT, the heaviest and most unjust tax, while gradually the income tax, which is progressive, and the tax on companies are receding. The movement is spectacular! In 1986, the corporate tax rate in our country was 45 per cent; it will be 25 per cent. In thirty years, twenty points less from the wealth produced by the workers! Do you feel that job creation, the number of businesses and industries have increased since then? No! On the contrary! Overall, this economic method has suffocated production and trade. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] The French also know that there is something unbearable and, so to speak, arrogant and injuring to abolish the tax on wealth at a time when tax evasion amounts to 1000 billion in Europe and 85 billion in France. It's stealing! If everyone paid their share of the tax, France's budget would not be in deficit! We'd be surplus! The thugs, the thieves, are those who cheat with the tax and plunge the republican homeland into the difficulties that we are struggling with today! There is, of course, a French specificity on the issue of taxation, and it has been for a long time. We remember 14 July 1789 because of the capture of the Bastille, but the truth is that the Great Revolution began the day before, when people set fire to more than half of the 50 barriers in Paris to which the grant was paid. The Great Revolution began with the question of taxation and its fair distribution. Let's think about it! The French are thus made that they do not really fight for the distribution of primary gross income in the company by unionizing, fighting for wage increases – they consider that these cases can be arranged. Moreover, they cannot do otherwise: the criminalization of trade union action, the destruction of the labour code, the individualization of social relations have weakened the ability of workers and employees to obtain a fairer compensation for the fruits of their work in the company. They rely on tax to restore justice and equal distribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u103	Jean-Paul Mattei said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u104	This is included in all the complaints books of the States General of 1789! The French have always preferred to rely on tax, that is to say, beyond the individual relations in the work, they consider that there is the general interest and that it is by law, by tax, that it manifests itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u106	Mr Mattei agrees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u107	This deeply republican, revolutionary state of mind still lives within our people. Be careful that if you prevent the expression of popular expectations in tax matters, as you have already prevented it in the company, as you prevent it in the street by force, you will blow everything up at the end, which will be well done and normal. For my part, I hope that civilized issues can be reached...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u108	Well...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u109	... those who pass by law, by debate. We are at that moment in our history. Stop always favoring the same! Have a little compassion, understanding for the suffering of a very large number of our compatriots! The refusal of capital tax is based on an economic thesis that the money that would not be collected would be injected into production. She's absolutely wrong! All the figures we have contradict it. The proceeds of the abolition of capital tax or the increase in capital accumulation, whatever the means – in particular, this year, through a EUR 57 billion dividend rain for CAC 40 companies – are not reflected in the investment. If you want it to be different, tax the profits distributed in dividends much more than those that are reinvested in companies in machines, tools and personnel! But you don't, so you're not credible and you can't expect runoff. The whole mechanics of current financial capitalism show that the accumulation of capital and its profitability are greater in the financial sphere than in real economic exchanges. This is why, globally, the latter are 4000 times less in real value, in real objects than in the financial sphere. This is the lesson of capitalism of our time! [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The old fiscal thesis you're developing, according to which capital would work, doesn't hold. Capital has never worked; Only labor produces wealth. No, it is not necessary to have capital to start the investment. Not at all! Borrowing is largely enough. The proof is that the central banker has never stopped pouring money on private banks with the hope that they will reinvest: 2800 billion euros given by the central banker to private banks to reinvest and of which we have not seen a euro in real production, in the last two years! Our fiscal thesis is that everyone must contribute in proportion to his means. Who's paid a lot, who hasn't paid much. Taxes must be less important than progressive taxes. My Communist comrades support the thesis of nine income tax brackets. For my part, I stand for fourteen, but the idea is the same. The last one must be very highly taxed. We hear indignations that did not occur when the last tranche, in France, was 65%! Do you want to restore the revolutionary tax that existed in the time of Mr. Jacques Chirac? That would be a very good idea! Do you want to restore the revolutionary tax of this communist paradise that was President Roosevelt's United States of America, where the last instalment was taxed at 90%? She's never too high! You have to know how to distribute! He who has less, as soon as he has a little, invests him in his expenses, in the good and happiness that he tries to bring to his family. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] My last word will be to tell you that the absurd policies that rely on private investment and the mechanical play of particular interests to contribute to the general good suffice to understand why no ecological economy is today possible. The general interest requires the collectivisation of as many resources as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u110	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u111	With this bill, the GDR Group proposes to re-establish the solidarity tax on wealth and to revise the income tax scale. These measures aim to ensure a better distribution of the tax effort among all French people. Of course, we share this objective of fiscal fairness inspired by the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, but the measures you propose would not, in reality, achieve this objective fully or effectively. Article 1 of your bill thus envisages the abolition of the property tax in favour of a restoration of the property tax as it existed until January 1, 2018. We discussed this issue at length in the fall of 2017. Madam Secretary of State and my colleagues in the majority have just mentioned the reasons for this development and I will not go back to that. By voting for the transformation of the ISF into an IFI, we chose to trust the most wealthy savers to invest in French companies. However, our trust is not blind. Such a development has therefore been accompanied by a firm condition: that the economic efficiency of this measure be assessed, i.e. that we ensure that the savings thus released have made it possible to increase the financing of French companies. This is the whole meaning of the amendment that the parliamentary majority supported and voted in the course of the review of the finance bill in the fall of 2017 to create a monitoring and evaluation mission to measure the economic and social impacts of the transformation of the ISF into an IFI, which will pay particular attention to the effects of the measure in terms of business investment and wealth distribution. This follow-up committee was set up in December 2018. Independent, it is led by France Stratégie and the Conseil d'analyse économique. It will deliver its findings ahead of the 2020 Finance Bill. Thus, the re-establishment of the ISF you are proposing illustrates the absence of any culture of public policy evaluation in our country. "Patience and length of time do more than strength or rage," La Fontaine taught. Why do you want to remove a measure without waiting to know, through evaluation, whether it works or not?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u112	Because we know the result in advance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u113	It is in the sense of a culture of evaluation of public policies and tax measures that our majority wants to go...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u114	We can't keep what's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u115	...because, in terms of public expenditure, this is the best guarantee of transparency and efficiency that we can bring to our citizens. In addition, under section 2 of your bill, you want to strengthen the progressivity of the tax schedule. In the explanatory memorandum, you believe that a more gradual entry into the IR scale will ensure greater tax fairness in favour of the middle and popular classes. However, you forget that only 43% of tax households pay income tax. Thus, almost six in ten Frenchmen would not be affected by your measure, whereas they are really the middle and popular class that you intend to defend. It is because we are aware of that that that, together with the Government last December, we preferred to opt for an increase in the activity premium when we voted on the law on various economic and social emergency measures. Non-taxable, designed to enhance emancipation through work, the activity premium acts as a "negative tax" and ensures a tax redistribution that is even more effective than the revision of the PR scale you are proposing. In the last three months, an additional 1.1 million French have thus benefited from the activity premium, for purchasing power gains ranging from fifteen to several hundred euros per month, where a reduction from the low income tax scale would have redistributed only a few tens of euros over the year. By using the activity premium, the redistribution of wealth is fully optimized: the very high incomes do not benefit from the increase in the activity premium whereas with the formula you propose, they would benefit, in fact, from the reduction of the rates at the bottom of the IR scale. Finally, from 15 January to the end of March, the great national debate allows the French to say what they mean by fair taxation, efficient taxation, and to mention the taxes that should be reduced as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u116	But the ISF was declared out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u117	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] To vote now for an amendment to the income tax scale without waiting for the full return of contributions would be to tell the French that we parliamentarians are ignoring their proposals. If, of course, you are not responsible for the bad synchronization between the date of your parliamentary niche and the end of the big debate, it is premature to assume that the French would like to change the IR scale from now on. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thus, because it would not succeed in achieving the objective of tax fairness that it is trying to achieve, because in the end its adoption would mean that haste would prevail over consultation when it comes to reshaping our tax system – unlike the aspirations of the French – we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u118	I don't see Mr. Lassalle. The floor is therefore open to Mr Laurent Saint-Martin...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u119	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u120	I would like to be able to speak as a non-attached Member. According to Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure, on which I base this point of order, I can speak, as paragraph 4 of that Rule states that it cannot be for more than two minutes. On the understanding that I voted against the budget, the issues of taxation and tax injustice justify my speaking in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u121	Mr Nadot, who is also not registered, can speak instead of Mr Lassalle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u122	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u123	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u124	I will give the floor to Mr Saint-Martin, since I announced it and I will then give it to you, Mr Nadot, instead of Mr Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u125	Good presidency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u126	Women in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u127	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u128	The review of this bill provides us with an opportunity to discuss a fundamental issue: consent to tax. You have stressed this, Mr rapporteur, and we agree on this point: it is one of the pillars of a democratic society, which is being undermined today by the lack of legibility of our tax system. This finding, however, does not lead us to the same conclusion. You say that this majority has removed the ISF. This is incorrect: we have transformed it into an IFI, and we have completed it with a single lump sum levy on capital income. You rightly denounce the complexity of our tax system. Restoring the ISF and its multiple exemptions would only increase it. You certify that the transformation of the ISF has not produced the expected macroeconomic effect. How can you be so categorical, when the impact of the measure has not yet been evaluated? If one wants to be precise about the dates, it should be recalled that it is only since October 2018 that the ISF is no longer perceived. We have less than six months back on this tax exemption! When you propose a reversal, despite the negative effects mentioned several times of this tax, our majority reaffirms the choice of a tax that is more readable for the taxpayer, more favourable to our businesses, more attractive to investors. It should be recalled that, in the interests of economic efficiency, the reform of capital taxation was necessary. The ISF as we knew it, French specificity, made our taxation on capital one of the heaviest in Europe – but I assure you, it remains so today! He contributed to the tax exile of hundreds of taxpayers, thereby amputating the resources of the state. By adding not only to the income tax, but also to the social levies on capital, it was part of the tax mechanism that hindered the development of our businesses, delayed the rise in our economy and weakened France's competitiveness. By transforming the ISF, we have therefore chosen a pragmatic and taboo action for growth and therefore employment. As activity rebounds, unemployment falls, although still too timidly, and employment, particularly in the industrial sector, finally returns, it is our responsibility to promote economic recovery by improving the efficiency of our tax system and simplifying its sometimes Byzantine provisions. That is how we can bring France into a sustainable era of investment, growth and employment. The Government has made it clear that the reforms voted on are not intended to be distorted. Indeed, it is necessary to guarantee a certain stability of the tax standard, for a reason of common sense: if the standard is unstable, it is poorly applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u129	You should have thought about it for the CSG!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u130	But stability is not an obstacle to reasonable accommodation, as long as it is necessary to make use of it. As early as the 2018 Finance Act, the majority had provided for a mechanism to study the macroeconomic impact of tax reform in relation to the financing objectives of the economy. The Government proposed last December that the evaluation be carried out by an independent body led by France Strategy and the Economic Analysis Council. It would be inconsistent to want to judge from now on the effectiveness of the tax measures we voted for 2018, which have no more than six months of effective implementation, when the entire economic literature agrees that tax measures only have their full effect after two years of implementation. We will see in 2020 whether it is appropriate to correct the scheme, and we will act in responsibility. Mr rapporteur, you describe the ISF as a guarantee of social cohesion, but this tax did not meet the objective of redistribution because of its limited base and low yield. Under the guise of reviewing the progressivity of the income tax scale, your proposed legislation could increase the burden on the taxpayer, even though it is already an effective tool for correcting inequalities. However, we know that the current structure of the IR, due to too many tax niches, is a source of misunderstanding and sometimes leads to a sense of injustice among our fellow citizens. Ensuring consent to tax requires that taxpayers trust the state in order to collect the tax fairly and effectively spend the proceeds of the tax. That is why, rather than increasing the tax burden as you propose, this majority has been working for 18 months to bring our compulsory levies into line and to reduce public expenditure. We must continue these efforts by examining, in particular, the possibility of rethinking the ceilings for tax niches, as the rapporteur-general of the budget has already done. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The resurgence of the great national debate deeply nourishes our reflections and will allow us to propose to the French an ambitious reform in this field. True tax justice, Mr rapporteur, is simply symbolic, but it requires political courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u131	I give the floor to Mr Sébastien Nadot, quite exceptionally, although he did not sign up for speaking time in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. I fully support this text, as I support all initiatives to restore tax justice in our country. We need to hear what is happening right now in our campaigns and move towards solutions. Tax policy is essential because of its impact on the lives of our citizens, and obviously it is imperative to do something in this area. Together with François-Michel Lambert and other Members of Parliament, we made another proposal than that of this morning: that of an ecological solidarity tax on fortunes. Indeed, taxes are less and less well understood in our country. But asking people to make efforts makes sense only if that is understood. The measure we are proposing can make our country, be understood as an additional contribution. To participate in the effort of the country knowing in which direction we are going to give a lot of meaning. We could benefit from this tax, in a form that remains to be defined, from communities that have projects on environmental issues but cannot carry them out. We could benefit from public innovation on environmental issues: I am thinking of these major organizations such as CNRS, INRA, CNAM, museums, which have great difficulty in financing projects. If we give meaning to a tax in a concrete way, we make it acceptable. That is the whole point of our debate today. I hope that this tax will be directed towards the future, and therefore that the environmental issue will be taken into account. (Applause from the GDR and SOC groups. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u133	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u134	[["No! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Secretary of State, no, it is not an ideological choice. This is not a systematic settlement of accounts with the rich. That would be good for you, and you are taking refuge in this argument that, with respect to a proposal for a cocoon law, she can only think of that. But I'm sorry, the coconuts are trying to think further. What is important is to try to arrive at a law of the future, as Sébastien Nadot has just said. We need to look to the future, and we need resources. You're talking about an increase in taxes, but no, it's not! On the contrary, it is a transfer: in the mass of taxes, we propose to shift some of the taxes paid on income, especially by the middle classes, to property tax. And I agree, we are not going far enough: we need more global thinking, for a larger transfer. Our goal is for income tax to be more profitable, to produce more, to alleviate the most unfair tax that is: VAT. As far as evaluation is concerned, I am surprised, sincerely, that it would take two years, not even to evaluate, but to measure the impact of decisions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u135	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u136	No! Today, statistics already allow us to see what the people concerned have done. We see it with donations: it is not the richest who are the most generous, since donations have declined, and I do not see why they would be more generous today by feeding the financing of SMEs. [["One million! » on the benches of the GDR group]] This reminds me of the CICE: the MEDEF, with its hand on its heart, had promised 1 million jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u137	With badges!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u138	In the end, there were 100,000! It'll be exactly the same. Many pretended to discover that we had tabled an amendment to review all the tranches and to amend our original proposal. But we're not technicians, we're trying to set a vision for the future! And I don't have Bercy's keys to run machines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u139	Neither do we, I assure you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u140	So it took us a little time to find out where we were going, and we corrected the shot. Our business is working: to review progressivity will cost the state's finances $6 billion, and we're offsetting that amount, starting with re-establishing the ISF for more than $3 billion. But you are right, we have to go further: for example, to remove this famous single flat-rate levy, which is the most unequal instrument that could be introduced here. In fact, we have removed the tax escalation with this PPU. Financial revenues are only taxed at 12.8%, making it a very interesting tax gift. Without going back to each other's statements, I have found an opening in some of the comments, which concede that everything may not be as good as that, and that perhaps there are things to be done, particularly with regard to progressivity. I also heard the Libertés et territoires group talk about "arrow" wealth tax. This shows that it is not possible to manage today's society with the tools of yesterday. We need to adapt the tools to reality: we need colossal means to deal with the challenges we face, including those of the ecological transition. Yes, we have to keep working. We could have debated here, because interesting amendments have been tabled. You have chosen to deprive us of this debate. You claim to wish to go further, but announce that you will reject this text! I see it as a contradiction. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] We will now no doubt hear from Mrs Motin what we have heard several times. You have decided to reject this bill, but I am sure that we will have the opportunity to return to it: indeed, this removal of the ISF adheres to your policy like the sparadrap to Captain Haddock. But that's a shame, because we were giving you an opportunity to respond to some of our fellow citizens – many, even: according to the polls, that you don't have to look at only when they arrange for you, 73% of people are in favour of the re-establishment of the ISF! This means that a very large majority of French people consider your tax policy today unfair. You will be obliged to take steps to rectify it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u141	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u142	I am not going to repeat what I said earlier in the rostrum, but rather to clarify some of the comments that have been made. No, Mr Roussel, the removal of the ISF and the restoration of the exit tax would not finance your reform at EUR 6 billion: the delta between the ISF and the IFI amounts to EUR 2.7 billion, while the removal of the exit tax represents a loss of revenue of 20 million. As you can see, we are far from the point – I will stick here to such factual considerations. In addition, you want to challenge tax niches that reduce the amount of income tax paid. I would like to point out that there is already a capping mechanism which is precisely such as to limit the benefit to the most affluent households. I would also like to point out that many middle-class households benefit from this, particularly in the area of childcare. This is a way of enabling women, in particular, to work if there is no crèche near the home. I therefore believe it is necessary to be cautious in calling into question tax niches, and to avoid falling into the caricature of a profit exclusively oriented towards the most affluent households. Mrs Louwagie, you say that the smaller holders of assets are the ones most affected by the IFI. It all depends on what we consider to be small or large, but I would point out that we are talking about a heritage of more than EUR 1.3 million after taking into account a 30% discount for the main residence – so the wealth concerned may not be the smallest... – and that for a principal residence of EUR 1.9 million, which is not completely negligible, we are talking about an annual tax of EUR 2500. That is to say, to reframe the terms of the debate, especially in a context where we are removing the housing tax. As you recalled, the IFI is fairer than the ISF. The ceiling on this was revised in order to drastically prevent avoidance strategies. This is very important: several of you have reminded us of the need to fight hard and strongly against attempts at optimisation or even tax evasion. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the IFI's yield is EUR 1.3 billion, more than the 850 million originally planned. Ms Pires Beaune, no, donations to associations have not dropped by 50%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u143	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u144	They didn't drop by 50%. You have to know why to keep it. They are in a slight decrease, rather less than 10%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u145	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u146	On the other hand, I would like to point out that donations to associations provide individuals with a reduction in income tax. Affluent taxpayers already benefit from it. With regard to the impact of the ISF on the economy, there are quite interesting economic studies which show that in the long term they amount to a loss of GDP of EUR 35 billion. I refer you in particular to the work of Michel Didier. I would point out that these are not just the departure of a few taxpayers, but a loss of opportunities: in fact, they are company managers who could have created value in France. All this is fairly well documented and shows that this is not limited to a few minor losses. On the other hand, you mentioned Keynes, who sees investment as the preferred engine of growth, linking the future economy to the present economy, in particular through the investment multiplier. The investment is financed by own funds and vice versa. Shareholding is therefore indispensable. This is the motivation of our position on the ISF: it is a question of taxing the property rent and allowing the investment to fuel growth and job creation. Mr Mélenchon, you said that France is losing jobs, that it has no industry and that unemployment is increasing. That is not correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u147	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u148	The unemployment rate has increased from 9.6 per cent to 8.8 per cent since the beginning of the legislature. It's a fact. It is therefore in sharp decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u149	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u150	This is the first time in ten years that it has passed below 9%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u151	Wonderful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u152	I am not saying that this is satisfactory, I am merely recalling the terms of the debate. In addition, there are more jobs created in the industry than jobs destroyed, and more site extensions than site closures. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Moreover, but I will not develop this point, the collectivization of the means of production has not necessarily proved its economic efficiency in history. I even remember that it has precipitated into misery a few million Russians, Chinese, Cambodians, Cubans and Venezuelans, said without wishing to argue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u153	What about capitalism? You're always looking in the same direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u154	Mr Nadot, you mentioned the financing of the ecological and energy transition. I fully share your opinion: this is a major goal for health and the environment, but also for our economy. This is at stake in projects supported by the Innovation Fund, designed to finance break-up innovations through the privatisation of certain state assets. This is also the issue of strategic sector contracts. Here are some examples of projects that we fund and support: energy storage, plastic recycling, low-carbon construction. These are concrete actions that we are implementing in a very determined manner. With regard to the assessment of the transformation of the ISF into an IFI, I would like to point out that there is a very specific mechanism planned. We have entrusted France Stratégie with the steering of a follow-up committee of professional organisations, members of the administration and experts, following the model of the evaluation mechanism of the CICE. Economists who are experts in the theoretical and empirical effects of tax changes on capital will sit. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Its objectives are clear: to rigorously assess the macroeconomic effects of the Government's reforms on investment, economic financing, employment and growth, with a focus on microeconomic aspects such as the reallocation of savings, the evolution of expatriation flows from high-income taxpayers – I recall that these expatriates create value – and that of investment in businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u155	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République en marche group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u156	Long live the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u157	The big national debate is everywhere but here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u158	The big blah-blah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u159	A little respect for the speaker, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u160	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Much has been said this morning, and it must be noted that, on these tax issues, the various positions defended are more of a political rather than a technical nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u161	At the same time, we are in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u162	It's all political!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u163	"It all starts in mysticism and ends in politics"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u164	All express a certain vision of the model of society that our public policies must help promote, and whose tax is the means of financing. We all defend a certain idea of France and public services when we talk about taxation, and it happens that the French, who have been demonstrating their love for politics for the past few weeks, are also passionate about taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u165	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u166	It is not a question of technical taxation, this obscure art of combining with dexterity articles of the tax code in order to make complex arrangements, but of taxation in the political sense of the term, the same one which explains both what one would ask the taxpayer to pay, why one would ask him to do so and what services he could expect in return, in accordance with the Napoleonic adage "Taxes are only loaned money; They come from the people, they must return to the people."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u167	Like VAT!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u168	With one third of the contributions devoted to it, taxation is the first issue in the great national debate, which drives all citizens, whether they are taxpayers or not. Business leaders, trade unionists, artists, even ministers, elected: everyone wants to share his/her view of what would convince him/her, as a citizen, to give better consent to tax. Because consent to tax cements our society. It is enshrined in the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen. It is one of the principles on which our representative democracy is based, because it is voted by the representatives of the people. At the same time, it constitutes a freedom and an obligation that one gives to oneself, in order to make society together. Who refuses the tax refuses to make company with others and excludes himself from the citizen pact. It is therefore essential for us, as representatives of the people, to ensure that the French, whom we all represent here, continue to consent to tax. As we know, this consent has been sluggish from year to year for a long time. The term "bas-le-bol fiscal" is not a few months old, but it was unprecedented last November when a large number of French citizens declared their refusal to consent to the payment of a carbon tax on fuels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u169	Most of all, they're sick of tax injustice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u170	In their view, this tax was not a good tax and, for many reasons, they were not prepared to do so. "The right tax is the tax you don't pay," said the President of the Republic. This can be understood in two ways. The tax you do not pay may be the tax you no longer pay, because we remove it: this is the case with the housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u171	Or ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u172	The tax that we do not pay is also the tax that does not concern us, the tax that weighs on the other, that is richer than us. While the great national debate is in full swing for a few more days, you are proposing a text aimed at re-establishing the ISF in its last known form and revising the income tax scale to make it more progressive. In sum, you are proposing "at the same time" to remove the tax for some – because by accentuating the progressivity of the income tax scale, we are greatly increasing the "tax that we don't pay" – and to restore for others the tax that the vast majority of French people do not pay, that part of the ISF that we chose to remove in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u173	You get it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u174	Your "at the same time" leads me to ask a question: is consent based on the symbolic dimension of the tax or on its effectiveness in ensuring a fairer distribution of the effort required of everyone?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u175	Both!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u176	There is no doubt that we will not exhaust the debate today. The question is wide-ranging. Above all, the French have been asking themselves collectively for a little more than a month and for a few more days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u177	And they brought answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u178	[["Yes! » on the benches of the GDR and LR groups]] For my part, with regard to the two proposals that you are putting forward, I will merely clarify the reasons why our group has chosen to present this motion for prior rejection. You will have understood that this does not constitute a refusal to debate taxes, to discuss how best to reform our income tax, or even to debate the ISF. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and LR groups]] This we have done, not in catini in the context of a secret meeting, but in the course of the presidential and legislative campaigns, by putting 65 million French in confidence through Emmanuel Macron's presidential programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u179	24% in the first round!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u180	What is the purpose of the great national debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u181	What are MPs for?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u182	A little calm, colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u183	First of all, the pure and simple restoration of the ISF as it existed before it was transformed into a property tax is in no way satisfactory. You write it yourself in the explanatory memorandum to your bill. With this version of the ISF, knowing that great fortunes escape from it thanks to the skill of talented tax experts or the capping of levies on certain income, you miss the objective of taxing the largest French assets. Such a mechanism has always proved inoperative to truly tax big fortunes. Not to mention that, coupled with a 50% income tax bracket, as you originally proposed, this ISF would be reduced to a zero-effect symbol. I mean, no effects... maybe it's a little quick said. This recovery would be a sign of very strong fiscal instability, as many colleagues have pointed out. Its transformation into an IFI is just one year old. Beyond the changes in behaviour that this transformation may have induced,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u184	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u185	... which we will know once it has been assessed, fiscal instability, we know, prompts the most mobile, who are often the richest, to seek to escape a tax that they consider too strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u186	Bad citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u187	Therefore, the re-establishment of the ISF in its strict anterior form would be likely to cool the largest – and rich – lovers of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u188	If they're in love with France, let them pay taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u189	This would weaken our attractiveness. Direct and indirect tax revenues would be irreparably lost.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u190	It's a class exegesis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u191	Nor would the product of the ISF that we have given up would allow for very ambitious public policies alone, or even a restoration of our public finances. The absence of ISF on movable property is no more likely to undermine France's budget than its existence would suffice to bail out the caisses. The transformation of the ISF into a property tax has not prevented us from taking action or carrying out very strong public policies in favour of the most disadvantaged – the poverty plan is endowed with 4.5 billion euros – or training – 2.5 billion dollars are allocated to the training of young people and seniors, vulnerable public victims of unemployment, which remains the first fight we wage for the French. Nor did this prevent us from exempting 80% of the population from the housing tax. Finally, we manage to restore purchasing power to the French who need it the most, for an amount three times higher than the product of the ISF that we have removed. To read the explanatory memorandum of your bill, one might think that we have taken away from the French an essential financial manna in order to benefit a very small number of taxpayers. It is not, as you know, as the increases in police, justice and defence resources also show, to mention only the budgets of the ministries that protect us on a daily basis, to which we have paid the utmost attention, with significant increases in the budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u192	What about health?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u193	All these examples show that public action in favour of all French people continues and that redistribution is increasing, even without part of the ISF. I come to the second part of your "at the same time". You are proposing to make the income tax scale much more progressive than it is today,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u194	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u195	... by making a new distribution of the fiscal effort among the French. If we support the idea that the tax, for everyone to agree to it, must be well distributed, we cannot agree with your proposal which, in the original version of the text, would cause the State to lose a revenue of 12 billion euros,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u196	6!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u197	... almost four times what could be reported by the recovery of the ISF you are proposing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u198	So let the amendment be voted on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u199	...or even its lighter version, which represents almost twice the latter sum. The level of our country's debt, which is close to 100 per cent of the wealth created by the French through their work, obviously does not allow us to do so. And then, if the progressivity of income tax can be discussed, we must not lose sight of its redistributive nature, which cannot be called into question. However, thanks to the current scale, it is the most affluent who pay the most because, beyond the fact that just over half of the French do not pay income tax, 70% of the tax is paid by 10% of the taxpayers. For the highest incomes, if compulsory levies are added, up to 66% can be taxed, i.e. two thirds. In order to complete the demonstration that this scale may have the qualities of its defects, it can be noted that the difference between the lowest average wages and the highest wages is 1 to 26 before tax, but only 1 to 6 after tax. Finally, let me be surprised that your proposal omits two key issues. First, you do not address the thorny issue of tax niches, which are an ideal reserve for financing your ambitions to revise the income tax scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u200	It's not our subject today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u201	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But, as we all know, each niche houses its dog and it is not easy to rub...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u202	We don't want the Restos of the Heart dead!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u203	Secondly, you only deal with how, not why, in your bill. You thus dissociate the two sides from the same political object: taxation – the way – is only a tool at the service of why – the public policies that drive public spending. It is true that this part of the reflection is probably the most complex, not because there is another obscure code that would have to be mastered to be able to lead it, but because it is about making choices, arbitrating, prioritizing. For our part, far from the incantations, the "there is only" and the "we have to", far from the contradictory injunctions of some and the blindness of others, without also agreeing to the stigmatization of the officials to which some engage, it was with the French that we wanted to think about solutions. We have launched the big debate so that ideas can emerge, because we need to find concrete measures adapted to the territories and the needs of the citizens; They must be pragmatic and ambitious, but, above all, they must be understood and make sense to all, agents and users. That is also why we are proceeding with the utmost caution, in order to make the reduction of public spending, a major issue, a success for all and for all. Therefore, if, like a considerable number of Frenchmen, we share, Mr rapporteur, your question about political taxation, you will understand that we do not wish to vote on this bill – which is nevertheless a real proposal, a serious contribution to be made to the great national debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u204	That's all we're good at!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u205	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LR and GDR groups]] That is why our group is proposing at this stage the rejection of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u206	It wasn't terrible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u207	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u208	I had moved a bit forward saying that we were going to hear only things already said... Dear Cendra Motin, I'd like to go back to why. We worked on how, but I thought the message, as to why, had passed and shared. Why, then? Because you have to open your eyes, look at what's happening in our country. We can't ignore it. Not all French people are on the streets, but many are by delegation, many entrust to others the task of explaining why – why it is difficult to finish the month, why we are talking about double standards. Why did I want to go back to the removal of the ISF? It must first be recalled that it has been advanced. You referred to Emmanuel Macron's program, but – and I'm not saying it – it's Mr Aghion, who worked on the presidential program and I assume, without knowing him, that he's a respectable man – in fact, you called into question the "at the same time" that this program was saying. You started by removing the ISF at the same time as you increased the CSG for pensioners, when it would have been necessary, Aghion said, to remove the ISF at the same time as the housing tax. Today, the measures you have taken give rise to a real sense of injustice. And it is not enough for you to say that, although you have deprived yourself of €3.5 billion of the return on wealth tax, you have finally managed to propose various other measures: the feeling of injustice is there, it is very widely shared, and you will not get away with it by sweeping it away. I would also like to say, since some have spoken again, that the cost of revising the tax brackets is EUR 6.6 billion, according to Bercy's services, and not EUR 12 billion or 24 billion, taking into account the amendment, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u209	Yes, taking into account the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u210	But if you agreed to discuss it, this amendment could be discussed, and we could explain it. In any case, these €6.6 billion are very simply offset by 3.5 billion from the re-establishment of the ISF,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u211	Less!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u212	A little less in fact, given the ceiling, but we could also have reviewed the progressivity of the ISF by creating a new tranche for very high incomes; excellent amendments to this effect have been tabled. You have repeatedly pointed out that the ISF does not report much. However, as I said, these 3.5 billion make it possible to compensate for a fall in the tax on the middle classes. With our amendment on tranches and rates, the switch is made to 4900 euros net per month: this is not an ideology! Anyway, you're camped on your certitudes and nothing can move. The ISF was excluded from the big debate from its beginning: the President of the Republic said that it would not be touched, going so far as to ask which public service could be removed in order to reduce the tax burden. You see that, if we do not share this reasoning, we do not contribute to ideology. It must be stressed that our approach is to defend a true society project. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] I will stop there, since you decide to end the discussion, but not until you have thanked the groups that support this bill. There are Members in this House who look a little more at the horizon than others!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u213	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u214	[[Smile]] My boyfriend Moetai Brotherson told me that walkers are for sharing, but for sharing at the Coluche: food for the rich, appetite for the poorest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u215	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u216	The debate that has just taken place demonstrates this. That is the whole force and symbolic scope of the discussion that we wanted to begin this morning. You take refuge behind the great debate, which must end within a few days, to say that it cannot be concluded prematurely, forgetting that the President of the Republic himself, in his letter to the French, considered that the re-establishment of the ISF was out of the question...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u217	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u218	... and overlooking the fact that 77% of the French are in favour of the re-establishment of the ISF.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u219	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u220	You are agitating the specter of capital flight, which would be aggravated by the re-establishment of the ISF. That's not true. According to a report by the Public Finance Branch, only 587 taxpayers went into exile – nothing says that they would not have done so anyway. As for the effects on employment, according to your services themselves, 50,000 jobs have been created thanks to the abolition of the ISF; I might as well say zero. Here is what inspires me your speech and your behaviour today: you refer to the niche the anger of France that is lacking. At the niche, France's despair of empty refrigerators! At the niche, the humiliation of pensioners who have dedicated their lives to work! In the niche too, Parliament's ability to discuss: once again, you use the procedure of prior rejection to prevent it from debating! Madam Secretary of State, everyone who does not swim in luxury, calm and voluptuousness, everyone who eats pasta every day knows that when you put a lid on the water that ends, it overflows.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u221	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u222	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the SOC and FI groups]] You claim to be in favour of patient capitalism; We, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, are eager to get rid of capitalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u223	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u224	During the general discussion, I referred to the position of Members of the Freedom and Territory Group on this bill, in particular their reservations. With the re-establishment of the ISF and the modification of the income tax brackets as proposed, we prefer a far-reaching tax reform, a reform that reconciles tax justice and environmental transition. However, this text has the merit of giving us the opportunity to discuss the meaning of taxation, including citizens' consent to tax. Should the tax have a symbolic dimension? Should it be subject to efficiency criteria? Should we reconsider his progressivity? How can we review all the tax niches that cut income tax? These are issues that we can address in our consideration of this bill. So this debate is worth pursuing! However, the motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by the Republic on the move is aimed precisely at discouraging it. This is regrettable because these issues, on the occasion of the great national debate, are at the heart of exchanges between citizens throughout the territory. This is also regrettable because we have seen, in recent weeks, that there were differences within the majority and within the executive itself on the answers to be given. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups and some benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote against the motion for rejection, so that the Assembly will continue to be the privileged place for democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u225	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u226	The position of Members of the La République Group is clear. We believe that the effect of transforming the ISF into an IFI cannot be measured only six months after its entry into force. The Assembly has also voted for the creation of a structure to evaluate this reform, and it seems to us good to await the results of this evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u227	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u228	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] If we are not yet in a position to measure the effects of this reform very concretely, however, we can see a number of macroeconomic developments. I'll mention four of them. The first is that we are in a position in Europe to welcome foreign direct investment, particularly in the industrial field. Secondly, we are creating more industrial jobs than we are destroying.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u229	Tell that to Blanquefort!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u230	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Third: we create more industrial sites than it disappears. Finally, fourth evolution – and I could mention many more...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u231	I thought it was too early to make evaluations, you'd have to know!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u232	You misunderstood me. I said that we could see that, after two years, in the industrial sector, France was back in colour, that it was a host country for foreign direct investment – Paris became the most attractive metropolis in Europe in this field – and that we were creating industrial jobs and industrial sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u233	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u234	All this confirms that our economic policy is on the right track.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u235	All he has to do is run!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u236	This policy supports productive investment. It is the only way to promote growth, employment, to restore purchasing power to our citizens. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] That is why Members of the Group of the European People's Party will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u238	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u239	The position of the Members of the Group The Republicans do not rely on the substance of this bill: I had the opportunity to make it clear during the general discussion that we were against it. On the other hand, with regard to form, I would like to point out that, of the many bills that are being tabled, few are being considered in the sitting – the procedure wants to do so. It is therefore an opportunity for us here to express different points of view, to debate. Since the beginning of the legislature, however, the majority has used and abused motions to reject each text proposed by the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u240	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u241	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u242	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR group and on several benches of the FI group]] No majority in previous legislatures has used motions of rejection as much as it has done. We can regret that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u243	It's the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u244	Welcome to the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u245	That's probably the difference between the old and the new world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u246	Maybe...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u247	[[Applause on several benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups]] Then, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Government, the deputies of the majority promote the great national debate: you want to involve the citizens. However, in this chamber, whose vocation it is, you refuse the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u248	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u249	It is not only a contradiction but also an ineptitude. In fact, you're not interested in the debate. Or you refuse to do so, and by doing so you de-regulate the role of Parliament. As you will have understood, Members of the Republican Group are in favour of the debate, in favour of the expression of the diversity of opinions. They accept the contradiction. You said, Mrs Motin, that this text expressed more political positions than it provided for technical provisions. But what else do we do here, if not represent very different opinions and currents of thought? [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups and some benches of the FI group]] For these reasons, Members of the Republican Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u250	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u251	[["Then! » on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] The MODEM Group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, even if we really want to discuss it. Let me finish! The subject is very complex. The text deals with income tax and solidarity tax on wealth, but it forgets a whole section of taxation: taxation of wealth, inheritance law, property gains, flat tax...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u252	We can add more, you know!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u253	We cannot promise a debate on these issues through amendments! Everyone was able to express himself during the general discussion, in his own way, with his method, with excess or moderation. In short, for me, the debate has already taken place and I do not see what further discussion on such an important subject would bring. It takes a little time to think, and in particular to evaluate the transformation of the ISF into an IFI. You mentioned the drop in donations. I readily admit that there is a dangling problem, and that people have to be motivated to invest in the company. The MODEM Group will pay close attention to the results and analysis of the measures we have voted for, and will participate actively in the debate it calls for on taxation. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] We must therefore address these issues in a much broader context: that of the finance bill. Be aware that the members of the MODEM and related Group will be very vigilant about the effects of the abolition of the ISF and the conclusions to be drawn from the major debate. For these reasons, technical and realistic reasons, we will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u254	Mr Luc Carvounas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u255	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have yet to demonstrate your disrespect, yes, your disrespect for the parliamentary debate and for the opposition. It has become, with you, systematic and is no less unacceptable. Great national debate of facade outside this chamber, but circulate, there is nothing to be seen in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u256	It was better before, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u257	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] On the bottom, what have we heard in the street and on the roundabouts for more than four months? "Reestablish the ISF! What is meant by public meetings held as part of the major debate? "Reestablish the ISF! And what does the joint initiative referendum of the Socialist and Related Group demand, which has already received the signature of nearly 160 parliamentarians? Recovery of the ISF. As you know, the tax benefits granted to the most affluent French people since 2017 have mainly benefited 1% of the richest. As a result, donations to associations, despite what I hear, Madam Secretary of State, have collapsed. For example, the most modest 5% of households see their incomes decline, with the rise in gas and electricity prices, the rise in tobacco prices, the decrease in personalized housing subsidies, the rise in the CSG, the explosion in rent prices, not to mention the compensations soon requested by the Prime Minister to the beneficiaries of the RSA. But at the same time, you give a cheque of 4000 euros a day to the country's 100 richest families! So don't come, with Bruno Le Maire, to do a diversion with the GAFA tax – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – which, if really applied, will earn 500 million euros, just seven times less than the removal of the ISF. This abolition, combined with the introduction of the flat tax, represents a loss of tax revenue of some EUR 25 billion over the quinquennium. Nicolas Sarkozy had introduced a tax shield; Emmanuel Macron will have created a wealth plan... We ask that these tax measures be assessed. This bill allowed us to try to make you right about the high demand for tax justice in the country. Your right ear works perfectly but we now know that your left ear is indeed affected by total deafness. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] For all these reasons, the members of the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u258	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u259	[[Applause on many benches of the UDI-Agir, LR and GDR groups]] [[Same movements]] Like Mrs Louwagie, I will not speak on the substance: Lise Magnier said earlier that we would have voted against this bill. However, we must take into account the work done by our colleagues in the GDR Group. As the big debate unfolds, the parliamentary niches must allow Members, precisely, to debate. So this was really not the time to defend a motion to reject it beforehand. Members of the IDU Group, Action and Independents will therefore not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u260	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u261	I would like to apologize, because my explanation of vote will be of a political nature. That's right, I thought we were here to do politics... Madam Secretary of State, during your speech, you asked our communist colleagues to be "reasonable and rigorous." I'll return the compliment to you. At this time of great debate, it is up to you to be reasonable and rigorous. [[Ms. Sabine Rubin applauds]] You are defending motions for prior rejection by systematically arguing that we cannot legislate while the major national debate is under way. But then, why didn't the Government ask the President of the Assembly to postpone the "niches" after the great national debate, so that we could discuss it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u262	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u263	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and LR]] However, not wanting to debate during the great national debate is a great concern. You had the opportunity to let us discuss this bill, to amend it, you had the whole shuttle to wait for the end of the great national debate... But instead of using these many possibilities, you find excuses to refuse any discussion during the great national debate. It's completely inconsistent. [[Same movements]] The French, according to the Prime Minister, will be disappointed as a result of the great national debate; In case this is not yet the case, the opposition members are already.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u264	If you are disappointed, then, in the end, you believe in the great national debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u265	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u266	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 105 Number of votes cast 103 Absolute majority 52 For adoption 58 Against 45
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u267	As a result, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u268	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u269	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u270	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Stéphane Peu, Jean-Philippe Nilor and several of their colleagues aimed at increasing the interprofessional minimum wage for growth and other wages by accompanying very small enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (No. 1610, 1697).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u271	Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u272	Madam President, I have just counted on us, and I propose that we vote now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u273	[[Smile]] No evil spirit, Mr. Jumel, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u274	Making work pay: in speeches, this goal brings us all together. From the statements of the President of the Republic to the processions of the yellow vests, everyone today agrees on the priority of valuing work. This is a good thing: making work pay is precisely the subject of our bill. This principle is also obvious. How can we cope with a society where poor workers multiply, where low wages fuel insecurity and where mass unemployment remains a reality? That is why, while this is a subject that is being debated right now throughout the country, and beyond the options that may be different, it is essential that this House seriously and fully consider this bill that, together with the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, we have wanted to be carpented, documented and legally sound. Colleagues, we invite you to make an effort towards novelty, an effort to break with a certain intellectual conformism which, in recent years, has systematically favoured the remuneration of capital to the detriment of that of labour. As I said, this policy comes from far away. For thirty years successive majorities tried, in vain, to import foreign models, sometimes Scandinavian, sometimes German, sometimes Anglo-Saxon, thereby denying the singularity of France, its creativity, its ability to invent its own model of development. It is thirty years of follow-up, thirty years of lowering our country and its great history: with such reasoning and behaviour, our country would never have had the audacity to invent the social security that the peoples of the whole world envy us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u275	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u276	Thirty years in which the deregulation of labour law has steadily increased to the detriment of employment protection. Work has thus become the great loser of wealth-sharing. The bill that I am defending today with my group is an invitation to open a new cycle of economic policy for social progress. That is why, before we go into detail, we must diverge from a number of a priori or received ideas that paralyze the debate every day. First necessary correction: social contributions are not burdens that would unfairly burden employers. They constitute rights and claims for the future, financed by both employees and employers. Desocializing wages is not about supporting work or helping the economy: it is just about impoverishing social security. Let's agree: the net wage is for today, the gross wage is for the whole of life! The second truth to recall is that the increase in SMIC does not lead to job destruction. The studies do not confirm the catastrophic scenarios that we are sometimes told. The representatives of the French Observatory of Economic Situations – OFCE – whom we have heard made it clear that the possible destruction of jobs is absolutely not proven. On the other hand, the effect of an increase in SMIC on activity is very real. By means of a dissemination effect, it contributes to the general increase in living standards and wages, as many economic works show. By feeding household consumption, it could be the main lever for boosting economic activity. In other words, the increase in SMIC is a growth factor. Investing in wages is therefore a good investment, an investment that is not part of speculation or tax havens, but part of the revival of the real economy. The third point is that wages cannot be financed by tax, as the Government does with the increase in the activity premium. Wages are the recognition of workers' contribution to wealth creation. Workers do not ask for an allowance: they want to live with dignity from their work. Only one in two employees at SMIC is affected by your revalorisation of the activity premium. Unlike wages, this bonus does not give rise to any rights: it will not translate into the career development of employees or into their qualifications, nor will it enter into the calculation of their retirement or unemployment benefits. Following this path is de-responsibility of companies for the benefit of the public authorities. Why would companies make the effort to raise wages, if the state increases the premium of activity in their place? Fourth observation: the French addiction to the policies of reductions in employers' contributions, which are at best ineffective, must be stopped, at the worst dangerous for workers locked in low-wage traps. How can we not question the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – whose efficiency is more based on belief than on actual results? The few evaluations we have indicate that 100,000 jobs have been created or saved. Considering the €20 billion committed each year in this policy, it is a real gabegie of public money. There was no gain in the field of exports and competitiveness, which were, however, objectives. All the personalities, all the bodies of various sensitivities that have been heard in the preparation of this bill, up to your own cabinet, the Minister of Labour, agree to recognize the failure of the CICE. It is in this context that this bill comes into play. Two levers must be activated without delay. On the one hand, there must be an immediate and continuous increase in wages. Initiated at the level of the SMIC, which will reach with our proposal 1,800 euros gross monthly in 2022, this increase will gradually irrigate the entire salary scale, in particular thanks to the compulsory opening of wage negotiations in each branch. On the other hand, it is essential to remove inefficient schemes such as the CICE yesterday or its shift to reductions in employers' social contributions today. This will make it possible to empower employers and to put an end to the double stalemate of these policies, i.e. the creation of low-wage traps and their harmful effects on social security accounts. These are the objectives of Articles 1 and 2. Our group is also betting on corporate responsibility and the choice of a State that takes over the issue of wealth-sharing in our country. The TPE-SMEs, which are the real economic lungs of our territories, must therefore be accompanied in the path of wage increases. The era of funding and public aid without counterpart must be over. We want to replace it, on the other hand, with targeted and evaluated support schemes, accompanying companies in their investments and employers in securing the career paths of employees. There are two tools in our bill. First, the support fund for SMEs under Article 3 would mobilise a range of tools to finance wage increases and ensure sustainable economic development. Thus, aid for innovation or loans at zero or preferential rates would be financed by the State on the basis of the financing made available by the abolition of the CICE switch to reduce contributions. Secondly, public aid to SMEs, created in Article 4, would consist of grants to accompany the increase in SMIC and to encourage sustainable recruitment. An employer offering a CDI to an employee at the end of his CDD would thus benefit from additional assistance of EUR 1000. It should be pointed out that the amount of aid proposed is not the result of chance: precise figures have been made prior to the tabling of this bill, so that the aid will accompany small businesses, traders and artisans as precisely as possible in the process of upgrading the SMIC and wages. Finally, special attention is paid to ultramarine territories, whose assets and opportunities are not sufficiently valued due to the lack of suitable devices. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill must lead us to open a new cycle of distribution of the wealth created, a more just, more balanced, more responsible cycle. The options we formulate are neither excessive nor cleavage: they are only intended to allow everyone to live from their work. We cannot continue to deplore the precariousness of workers and the ever-increasing concentration of wealth at the other end of the cycle. We have to take action! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The Prime Minister said a few weeks ago in response to the inquiry of our group president André Chassaigne, who asked him about this parliamentary niche: "Let us have democratic pleasure and republican demand to debate together. I do not want to believe that after such a declaration of love for the democratic debate, your majority may be tempted not to lead it to the end, especially since it deals with an issue that all our compatriots have in mind: ensuring that work finally pays, and putting an end to the longest period of stagnation in purchasing power that our country has experienced since the Second World War.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u277	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u278	The GDR Group's proposal for a law is based on a finding that the Government broadly shares: too many of our fellow citizens are living badly or difficult even when they are employed. Today, the income from his work does not allow everyone to cope with the expenses of everyday life or to set aside enough to make life easier, safer or even more enjoyable. This can create a sense of frustration, and in many people the feeling of anxiety for the next day, the feeling of not even working hard. The social movements of the past few months have shed a raw light on the situation of many of our fellow citizens who want to be able to live with dignity from their work. If I share with you, Mr rapporteur, the objective of better living from his work, that is to say that work pays more to be able to live from it, we diverge on how to achieve this objective. Your bill thus provides for an increase of the gross SMIC to 1,800 euros per month by 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u279	That'd be pretty good already!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u280	Since the monthly gross SMIC has been 1521 euros since 1 January this year, this would represent an increase of about 18%, or about 6% per year. It should be recalled that from an economic point of view, the evolution of the minimum wage is a compromise between several public policy objectives, and the art of maintaining that balance is to know how far to go. The first objective of the SMIC is to guarantee the purchasing power of employees located at the bottom of the remuneration scale – remember that it is an improvement of the SMIG, "guaranteed interprofessional minimum wage", which had been created for this purpose. The second objective is to maintain employment. The third is competitiveness in terms of labour costs, which should allow for the development of other jobs. It must be said here that introducing such a sharp and sudden increase in the SMIC would necessarily have a significant negative impact on employment and on the competitiveness of enterprises, thus on the employment of tomorrow. On the basis of existing studies, which are quite numerous, it is estimated that the employment effect of an increase of one point in the cost of labour would result in between 10,000 and 20,000 fewer jobs each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u281	In 1968, the increase was much greater!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u282	Even if, of course, we cannot mechanically multiply this figure by the 18% increase that your bill would eventually bring, it is certain that the negative impact on employment would be massive. At a time when unemployment is finally beginning to fall in our country, after 30 years of mass unemployment, such an approach would be quite counterproductive, while the fight against unemployment remains the top priority. A French exception must also be noted: the maintenance of the purchasing power of employees paid at the minimum wage is guaranteed by the SMIC's legal formula of revalorisation, even in the absence of a boost. This year, for example, the increase was 1.5% on 1 January, i.e. €1204 net per month. SMIC's purchasing power has increased by 7 per cent since 2008, by 24 per cent since 2002 and by 35 per cent since 1998, because our country has applied double indexing, both on inflation and on the average increase in workers' and employees' wages. If other countries have experienced faster increases in recent years – as was the case with France a long time ago, more than fifty years ago – it is because they were leaving much lower than we were: at present, the gross SMIC represents 61% of the median wage in France, compared with only 50% in Germany for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u283	70% in Portugal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u284	In addition, the purchasing power of employees is not based solely on SMIC, although of course it has a significant effect since it directly applies to 1.6 million employees and a total of 11 million are affected by its impact on wage classifications. Indeed, there are also branch negotiations and company negotiations, which are taking place at the moment. Most of the increase in wages does not come from the legal obligation of the SMIC but from the social dialogue. I would point out in passing that I have called on the branches whose conventional minima are below the SMIC, which will be subject to all the internal pressure of the social dialogue, but also, I can tell you, that of the Government: the remuneration in these branches must be reviewed according to the increase in the SMIC, without reducing the lowest levels of remuneration as they do when the minimum is lower than the SMIC. Of course, no one is paid below the SMIC, but if the collective agreement provides for a lower minimum wage, many employees remain, despite promotions, at the level of the SMIC or very close. And then there is another important lever, which you did not mention: it is the equal pay aspect of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. These new provisions will increase the purchasing power of millions of women. It is known that there is now a wage gap of 9% for equal work and 25% for the entire career, with a rather massive drop-out for the first child and then for the second. The gap is further widened at the time of retirement, reaching 39% for all retirees, and still 31% for new retirees. It is all the more important to draw attention to the massive issue of women's purchasing power in the whole question of the purchasing power of employees, which is numerous but not equal. The fact that companies now have an obligation to achieve results...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u285	Let's do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u286	We're doing it, Congressman! And we'll follow the application together. I would like to point out that since 1 March, companies have to declare the status of equal pay and, if necessary, put in place a catch-up action plan, starting on 1 September for companies with more than 250 employees and on 1 March next year for all companies with more than 50 employees, i.e. a total of 40000 in France. This is a very important change because before, we had only one obligation of means: it was thus forty-six years since the same discourse was held and the law imposed equality between men and women, but without it being real. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With the obligation to achieve results, there is real transparency, as you already see for the first companies concerned. This transparency leads to reputational pressure and will make social dialogue in companies much more effective because trade union organisations and management will have the necessary elements. In addition, companies below a certain threshold will have an obligation to provide a catch-up envelope, with penalties at the key. As for the third lever, you mentioned it: it is the sharing of value. It is based not only on salary, but also on self-interest and participation – an extremely positive French particularity. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Government wants to develop them through the PACTE law, especially in small businesses because that is where employees benefit the least.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u287	But who decides in the company?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u288	I have no doubt that you will support this type of measure in the next reading of this text. On the basis of these findings, the Government's approach is clear: we must continue to stimulate growth and make it rich in jobs, do everything we can to ensure that it is inclusive, and support the purchasing power of the least skilled workers, which is at the heart of your bill. To achieve this, our approach is to play on all the levers that stimulate employment, job quality and income, rather than penalizing it. In particular, this is the case with the activity premium, which I would like to remind you that an additional 1.1 million French people now benefit from the measures announced by the President of the Republic on 10 December and soon after in the Act on Economic and Social Emergency Measures. Combined with the automatic increase in SMIC, the increase in the activity premium represents at least EUR 100 more at SMIC level. Other measures, such as the de-socialisation and de-socialisation of overtime for the employee or the exceptional premium, complement this unprecedented effort for the benefit of workers, especially those with the lowest incomes. Let us come to the heart of the subject that divides us: should the SMIC be increased sharply and brutally in order to increase purchasing power or supplement the wage increase with the solidarity that is the activity premium, in order to allow the lowest incomes to have a more dignified life? The disadvantage of your proposal, Mr rapporteur, is that it would result in job losses. And I don't think anyone here wants us to choose between purchasing power and employment. It is therefore necessary to find the best mix to promote the incomes of the most modest employees while continuing to promote job creation. My conviction and experience suggest to me that simplicity should be given priority in the area of business aid. You mentioned the CICE, and we agree on one point: the CICE was very complicated. For that reason, the Government had chosen to transform it into a reduction in long-term burdens. Its evaluation by France Stratégie showed that the scheme was perceived by the actors on the ground as a complex, potentially reversible measure, beneficial a posteriori and thus penalising the TPE-SME. This may have limited hiring and investment decisions. On the contrary, burden relief is more predictable and easier to anticipate for employers, especially for CEOs of SME-EMPs. I would like to stress the issue of small businesses, which have also been numerous in the social movements of recent months, constantly expressing their concern about the real burden on labour costs. We want to ease it: it is an incentive to hire. Assessments of the burden-relief schemes show that their impact on employment is significant and far more effective than a post-tax credit. This is why the measures taken by the Government will lead, in October 2019, to cancel social security contributions at the level of the SMIC and to make them degressive up to 2.5 SMIC. The Government's approach is to support purchasing power, but without letting anything go on the goal of reducing mass unemployment, at the heart of our commitment. This balance based on two pillars, the increased purchasing power for all those who have the lowest wages, but also more work for more of our citizens, is very important. For, as you said, the dignity of work is also to earn a living through his work without having to wait for help. When more people return to work, more people live with dignity from their work. It is also obvious that the wage bargaining power of workers and their representatives must be strengthened, thereby increasing purchasing power through social dialogue, because it is not negotiated in the same way when the unemployment rate in a sector of activity is 15% or when it is 5%, or according to the competitiveness rate of the sector. It is for this reason that we believe so much in the sectoral negotiations on the subject. In a few days' time, the great national debate will come to an end. It will provide the nation with many proposals drawn from the daily life of the French. The Government will use it to respond to the demands of our fellow citizens. The decisions taken will be consistent with the course set by the President of the Republic: to allow everyone to live with dignity in their work, i.e. to have decent incomes, while maintaining the fight against unemployment at the top of our priorities. The question of the purchasing power of workers is real. That is why, as I said, a mix between wages and increases in activity premiums, i.e. between income from work and solidarity, is for us the best way to achieve convergence between economic development and social progress. For all these reasons, the Government will give an opinion, Mr. Rapporteur, against your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u289	In the general debate, Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u290	[[Smile]] [[Smile]] You gave me a ferocious appetite, Madam Minister. Should it be recalled that the minimum wage, initially SMIG, was introduced in 1950 under Georges Bidault's government in order to revive consumption through demand and fight poverty? Should we also recall that René Pleven, a right-wing orthodox man, defended him by presenting him as a means of combating the spread of communist ideas? That is to say if the class struggle still permeates the capital-labour ratio! What's new, almost seventy years later, while the SMIC occupies the debates of the French as well as those of the elected representatives of the Republic, such as the Communist deputies who urge you today to debate it? Poor workers are a reality that is spreading, and the sluggish consumption of wage-earning families weighs on growth. As for communist ideas, they reinvest the spirit of the social movement whose singular crest is formed by the movement of yellow vests. In short, this economic, social and political situation should lead you, the right, to negotiate a compromise on this issue. So what about, more specifically, in this news sequence? The remuneration of the vast majority of those who live by their labour force is in the dark. It no longer allows them to live decently, under the double effect of wage stagnation, since the 2008 crisis, and the capture of wealth produced by labour by a small number, especially by shareholders, whose dividends reached EUR 57 billion in 2018. This transfer of the added value of labour to capital destroys our social pact. Without drawing the consequences of these findings, the President of the Republic has announced emergency measures on purchasing power. Far from responding to the demand for revalorisation of wages and in particular of the SMIC, it was a question of mobilizing instruments in trompe l'oeil: exempt overtime, exceptional premium, increase of a social benefit to supplement low incomes. These measures, financed either by new exemptions from social contributions or by national solidarity, i.e. by taxpayers, do not meet the expectations expressed by our fellow citizens who want to be able to live with dignity in their work. They also save capital. Above all, these ads leave aside a large number of French. While only one in two employees in the SMIC will be covered by the activity premium, very part-time employees, students, pensioners, civil servants, beneficiaries of social minimums or the unemployed are completely forgotten. I would now like to quickly recall several essential elements that will demonstrate the merits of an urgent and progressive increase in SMIC and wages in general, in contrast to the social glaciation that you impose and that causes an increasing number of French people to slam their teeth. Firstly, increasing the SMIC means increasing the minimum wage, i.e. moving towards a decent wage to cope with the hazards of daily life. How much does it take in France today to live decently? The National Observatory for Poverty and Social Exclusion estimates that the decent wage for a single active person living in the social park is EUR 1454 and EUR 1572 when housed in the private park. The average basket is broken down as follows: about 620 euros for housing, 300 euros for transport, 220 euros for food, 150 euros for social life, 110 euros for equipment, 70 euros for clothing and 60 euros for health. This is the reality of the daily lives of our fellow citizens. Today, however, living at Smic means living with 1203 euros a month. We therefore propose to set the SMIC at 1,800 gross euros, i.e. close to 1,400 net euros in order to bring it closer to the decent standard of living.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u291	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u292	Employers would take their full part. Secondly, the SMIC is a wage for growth: to increase it is to allow participation in the economic development of the nation. However, since assuming responsibility, the Government has refused to raise the minimum wage. If the SMIC increases annually, it is only because of the legal automatic indexing formula. This is far from sufficient, because this indexation is itself hampered by the fact that all low-wage earners are increasing marginally. The pressure on low wages by the Government and employers prevents us from moving into a dynamic of wage increases. That is why we must break out of this spiral of wage cuts. This is all the more urgent because, let us recall, the SMIC is for many of the employees of our small enterprises the last bulwark, for lack of collective bargaining. Thirdly, increasing the SMIC means increasing the socialised wage, i.e. the wage which opens up pension or unemployment rights. However, while net wages are rising slightly, gross wages are stagnating, owing to the multiple exemptions from social contributions on low wages enjoyed by employers. As you know, we spend almost EUR 60 billion a year on these policies, which have poor employment effects, of which EUR 20 billion is allocated to the CICE alone. This flight forward in the supposedly necessary fall in labour costs is neither effective nor beneficial to the workers themselves because it keeps them, as has been said, in low-wage traps and further weakens the financing of our social protection model. Increasing SMIC and wages is therefore a way out of this deadly spiral and increasing social security rights. Fourthly, to increase the SMIC means to recognize the worker's work and contribution to the production of wealth, because recognizing work cannot be achieved through a social benefit paid by the State and financed by tax. Employees do not ask for charity, they ask to be able to live with dignity from their work. The activity premium is a short-term solution to the question of purchasing power, which allows the state to replace employers in the payment of wages. Increasing wages, therefore, also means empowering employers in their social role. Fifthly and most recently, increasing SMIC and wages is promoting equal pay for women and men. Finally, 60% of the smicards are smicards! This figure alone should challenge you, encourage you to stop sticking to good intentions and act in favour of women's wages. Ladies and gentlemen, this increase is not irresponsible, because we propose to accompany small and medium-sized enterprises at the same time through a reorientation of public aid now distributed without compensation. The waste of public money in the CICE should lead us to make aid conditional on the fulfilment of criteria for job creation and activity, territorial solidarity and ecological transition. In these circumstances, is the majority this day, will it be tomorrow, when you are going to return your copy on the great debate to the French, the right at the same time the most antisocial and the least intelligent? Will it go so far as to close the door to a new solidarity pact for our country that is even advocated by liberal economists? Will it be the most cynical right, when your president, the great commander of your majority, claims to be the great progressive leader of Europe by promising a European minimum wage? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Decency requires you to thaw and derail your thighs so that our fellow citizens can live with dignity from their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u293	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u294	What if the SMIC rises to 1300 euros net per month? This issue has been widely heard in the manifestations of the yellow vests, and beyond the protest movement, the increase of the SMIC is a fairly widely shared demand among the population. Yet it still seems to be a taboo question. The Government thus rejected this solution in December, choosing to increase the activity premium. Nor is there any question of this in the context of the major national debate, whose four themes on the table by the President are taxation, the organisation of the State, the ecological transition, and finally democracy and citizenship. The question of work and its remuneration shines with its absence! However, the President himself acknowledges this: we often find at the root of the despair and anger expressed by our fellow citizens wages too low for some to live with dignity from the fruit of their work. In 2018, the number of persons paid at the minimum wage was 1.98 million in France, of which 58% are women, all paid less than 8 euros net per hour, or 1200 euros net per month. We did not wait for the yellow vest crisis to realize that it is very difficult to live, in France, with 1200 euros per month. We are all aware of the limited options available to these workers in terms of purchasing power. Living with the minimum wage, what does that mean in practice? This often means shopping hard-discount, choosing the cheapest products, unfortunately of less good quality. It also means putting outings and recreation aside. Working with a minimum wage means always counting: for rent, electricity, telephone bills and canteen. Once the essential and incompressible expenses are paid, when we get there, what remains? Not much: on average, it remains to the modest households about 180 euros said of arbitrable income. The burden of these expenditure constraints has increased significantly since the early 2000s. They account for 60 per cent of the budget of households living below the poverty line. In addition, food expenditure. And again, I'm not talking about health care costs or the hazards of life. Thus, according to INSEE, the average standard of living of the 40% of the least wealthy French people declined between 2008 and 2016, although it had so far tended to rise. This impoverishment is largely due to high unemployment as well as to a slower change in the amount of the SMIC than in the total wage. Therefore, and for all these reasons, how can we not, in principle, favour an increase in SMIC?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u295	It is indeed difficult not to be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u296	It is clear that we all want to respond positively to the demand for increased purchasing power. If this request is not recent, unfortunately it has still not received a satisfactory response.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u297	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u298	So yes, in December last year, we urgently voted for measures: revalorisation of the activity premium, Christmas premium, defiscalisation of overtime. But as their name suggests, these were emergency measures. They are not meant to respond to the structural crisis in our country, which means that work does not pay enough. The GDR Group is proposing today, and I thank its members, an interesting proposal for a law, the aim of which is to upgrade the SMIC by removing reductions in employer contributions. Whether or not we agree with the scheme, which is very ambitious, it must be admitted that the text opens an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u300	We will most probably not have the opportunity to pursue it today, which the Liberties and Territories Group regrets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u301	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u302	This debate is about fair pay for work. For the past 25 years, France has favoured the use of policies to reduce labour costs, making the reduction of employers' contributions a historic lever. Our country has chosen as its main fight the fight against unemployment. The reading grid he chose requires him to believe that the lower the cost of work, the more companies will choose to hire. The increase in the minimum wage has thus become the enemy of employment, so much so that all governments have merely curbed the rise in the SMIC and have gradually reduced social contributions on the lowest wages while introducing income supplements – RSA-activity, activity premium – in order to support the income of employees at the bottom of the scale without costing the employer a cent. One of the most recent schemes, the CICE, transformed during the last draft law on the financing of social security into a permanent reduction in employer contributions, is an example of this. While there is still no consensus on its results today, it has certainly not lived up to the expectations it has given rise to in terms of job creation. In addition, it has mainly benefited large enterprises, particularly those in the retail sector, as well as higher wages. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] For this reason, the Libertés et Territoires Group is looking more closely at the spirit of this bill, which seeks to overcome the main problem of the CICE by directing the savings generated by the phasing out of this scheme towards supporting the companies that need it the most, and which are also those that create jobs in our territories: the TPEs and SMEs. In parallel with the fall in contributions, sometimes unfairly referred to as "burdens" when they are an investment in our social protection system, the State has introduced income supplements in the form of social benefits, so much so that, in the income of households, the share of social transfers has increased sharply, while that of wages has decreased. For example, last December, the revalorisation of the activity premium was established as a savior of the purchasing power of the most modest households. At the moment, it was perceived as the least bad solution to the social emergency and the anger that was grumbling. However, if it has increased income without penalizing businesses, we have once again acted on income without calling into question remuneration, wages. Acting on the simple lever of the activity premium poses some problems. First, it poses the risk that wages will never be increased, since the premium can be used by employers as a pretext to maintain the status quo. In addition, this makes the remuneration of employees financed by taxpayers, including the most modest ones. Finally, and above all, the premium is not included in the calculation of unemployment insurance or health insurance benefits, nor in the calculation of pensions, which penalises small wages. If, in the short term, the revalorisation of the activity premium thus helps to relieve a number of people, it is definitely not a structural policy to ensure that work is paid in a fair manner. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] I want to insist on this requirement of justice. In addition to low wages, the main problem lies in the unequal distribution of wealth and wage inequality. How can one explain to those who earn 1200 euros a month that they will not increase their salary, while the remuneration of some managers is considerable and the dividends paid by their company are high? Of course, some skills are rarer, some occupations require long education, but can this justify that the one who once earned five times as much as another earns today twenty or even a hundred times more?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u303	Definitely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u304	The reality is that the share of wages in value added is only decreasing – indeed, the CICE has contributed to it. Indeed, the margin rate of large companies has recovered considerably since the crisis. The fall in employer contributions therefore does not address the problem of the unequal distribution of wealth. The increase in the purchasing power of the French must necessarily be accompanied by measures in favour of greater wage and social justice. That is why the bill tabled by our colleagues in the GDR Group is interesting, because it makes sure that aid is directed towards small businesses. It is above all the latter which create jobs and enable us to maintain activity in our territories; It is therefore they who should receive more attention, especially since they have not harvested the fruits of the CICE – among other things. As regards the improvement of aid to undertakings in the overseas communities, we are in favour of this, given the particular difficulties encountered in these territories. Of course, the implementation of the proposed mechanism raises several questions: what budgetary impact it could have, particularly in view of our European commitments; regarding the risk of job destruction that it causes, as you mentioned, the minister – this is an argument that is constantly being put forward to oppose the increase in the SMIC. In addition to these questions, there is the need for a broader reflection within the framework of our membership of the European Union. This is all the more necessary since other Member States, such as Spain, Portugal or even Germany, have already chosen to increase their minimum wage. Finally, there is the question of the possible introduction of a European minimum wage – but this is not the subject today. [["Congratulation! » and loud applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In the end, the debate proposed to us would certainly deserve more than the time that we can devote to it – time that will certainly be further reduced, since a motion of prior rejection has been tabled, which we regret. In the Libertés et Territoires Group, however, we were prepared to approach this discussion in a spirit of openness, with the desire to support the purchasing power of all employees, in particular those paid at the SMIC, as well as employment in all our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u305	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1168.u306	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the bill to increase the interprofessional minimum wage for growth and wages by accompanying very small enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises; Discussion of the proposal for a law abolishing the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities; Discussion of the bill to strengthen the integrity of elected office and national representation; Discussion of the proposed law in favour of transparency on the use of popular energy savings. The meeting is adjourned.
