ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u1	The next item is a statement by the Government, followed by a debate, on the migration policy of France and Europe, pursuant to Article 50-1 of the Constitution. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u2	"No wonder... the immigration issue has often crystallized political divisions. The political debate has seen, in a recurring way [...] confront two conceptions of the nation, which do not overlap the distinction between the left and the right. On the one hand – so majority that it is not always vigilant enough – an open patriotism, based on the conviction that France was itself only when it fully assumed its universalist message [...]. On the other hand [...] a narrow and closed nationalism, obsessed with the image of decline, decline [...], inevitably making on the other, especially from abroad, the scapegoat of the uncertainties of the present. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u3	You're still a manichean.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u4	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] "Today we must ensure the triumph of the republican, open-minded conception of the nation, the one that guarantees rights for everyone and makes it accept duties for all. » Ladies and gentlemen, these words are not mine: I have just read to you the excerpt from a speech delivered in 1990 here by Michel Rocard on the occasion of a debate in Parliament on immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u5	At the time, you were a Rocardian!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u6	A rocardian who quotes Rocard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u7	The exercise we are carrying out today is therefore not new. The questions we ask ourselves are neither new nor scandalous. They are no longer the sole preserve of populist parties on whose lands we would be surprised to brag.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u8	It's still a little what you're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u9	These are questions that the French have been asking themselves and which they have long been concerned about; questions to which we must provide answers and which the country must face. If the exercise is not new, the way we approach it is relatively new. For once, the Government chose to come to Parliament to speak on immigration, not on the basis of a technical text but to propose a diagnosis and strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u10	No vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u11	We have made a commitment, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic, to resume this debate every year. We want this method to enable us to clarify and document precisely and seriously, a subject that is sometimes suitable for approximations. We propose a dialogue: it is a question of sharing the observation and building together the answers. The Government has obviously worked; ideas have been studied, some have been rejected and some have been in depth, so that in the light of this debate – and I insist – and in the light of the guidelines that will emerge from it, measures can be quickly implemented. Let's start, ladies and gentlemen, by making the diagnosis. We are no longer experiencing a refugee crisis like the one Europe experienced in 2015 and 2016. Irregular flows into the European Union have been declining steadily for the past two years. Despite this, the French asylum system is currently saturated, as if we were delayed in suffering the effects of the 2015-2016 crisis. The data are clear and indisputable: in 2018, France recorded a record 123000 asylum applications, an increase of 22% compared to the previous year, while at the same time the number of applications fell by 10% in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u12	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u13	This paradox, which we need to understand in order to move forward, is explained by two phenomena. First, France faces major secondary migratory movements, that is, many asylum seekers arrive in France after passing through another European country. On average, 30% of our asylum seekers have already filed a file in another Member State, i.e. they are not, in principle, the responsibility of France. The second phenomenon is the large proportion, within the asylum application, of the nationalities corresponding to countries that OFPRA – the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless – considers safe, that is, in which rights and freedoms are respected. Among the first three nationalities of asylum applications in France are Georgia and Albania, i.e. candidate countries for accession to the European Union. We have a duty to examine the causes of this situation because OFPRA and the National Asylum Court – CNDA – are overwhelmed by the number of applications. This situation prevents us from reducing the review deadlines as quickly as we wish, and it results in the retention of people on our soil who are difficult to carry out. In the end, it is the people who are really entitled to protection in France and who should be able to receive it quickly and well, who suffer from it. Overseas countries also face difficulties related to the influx of asylum applications. We must provide appropriate answers to each of these situations, as we have done for Guyana and Mayotte. The Government, with the support of the majority, is endeavouring to take decisive and coherent action in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u14	He "trys" only!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u15	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] For the past two years, we have been pursuing a policy of immigration without chin blows and without naivety. We have structured dialogue with countries of origin and transit with a view to better preventing and controlling migratory flows. We put the necessary means...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u16	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u17	... and in particular we are making a considerable effort in the area of official development assistance. This effort represented 0.43% of the national wealth in 2018, and the President of the Republic decided to raise this rate to 0.55% by 2022, which represents a significant increase. For the past two years, we have finally put the migration issue at the heart of our diplomatic relations with States. Let us take the time to take stock of the law of September 10, 2018, which is beginning to produce its effects. The fight against irregular immigration is gradually becoming more effective and therefore more credible. Remoteness has increased by 10 per cent over the past year and by 20 per cent over two years. Sign of the maturity of the public debate on immigration issues: in the recently published fora and positions on this subject, there is no longer any dispute over the need to provide the means for the effective, voluntary or forced return of persons not belonging to any of the categories of stay or asylum. We have made an unprecedented effort to improve the reception conditions of foreigners present and in a regular situation on our soil. Our reception capacity for asylum seekers will reach more than 107,000 places by the end of 2019. In 2018, 3,000 places were created in reception and situational centres in all metropolitan areas, in order to give substance to the commitment made by the President of the Republic in his speech in Orléans in July 2017. Regularly – still a few weeks ago in Grande-Synthe – camp dismantling operations are accompanied by the sheltering of several hundred people. The minister of the interior asked the police prefect of Paris to identify, with the necessary assistance of the city of Paris, a comprehensive response to the unworthy situation that we see at the door of the Chapel. Every week, dozens of people are oriented from accommodation and camps in the Parisian agglomeration to reception centres in the province. Finally, we are mobilizing to ensure the sustainable housing of those who are granted refugee status. In 2018 alone, more than 8700 housing units were mobilized, allowing nearly 20,000 refugees to resettle, almost doubling the number in 2017. We have put the package, if you put it to me, on the means of the asylum system in order to reduce the delays in the processing of applications, which are far too long. This year again, I authorized the recruitment of 150 new protection officers at OFPRA and the necessary officers for the opening of a twenty-third chamber in the National Court of Asylum. These additional staffing levels have at least stabilized delays, in a context where the number of applications to be processed is increasing sharply. Finally, we gave a new ambition to our integration policy following the report submitted to me by your colleague Aurélien Taché. We have decided to double the hourly volume of French language courses given to first-time foreigners who need them from 200 to 400 hours. We have also modernized and doubled the duration of civic training for these people. Nevertheless, we have clearly not achieved all of our objectives. We must continue our efforts and do better. On the basis of what principles and with what means? That is the purpose, the issue of today's debate. First of all, there are solutions that I do not believe in, always the same ones that we know they are not working and that I propose that you stay away from. Among these false solutions are myths and fantasies, starting with zero immigration, which never existed and which is even less imaginable in our open and hyper-connected world. I am one of those who think that France must be proud of being an attractive country when it is for good reasons, especially for the quality of its universities and its research. It seems to me that no one wants to question the reception of students and researchers to develop the assets of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u18	So, you don't have to increase the registration fee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Another fantasy is the replacement immigration, which is called a certain ugliness that appeals to the most detestable springs of conspiracy and which has inspired political discourses that I have had the opportunity to say were deeply contrary to the idea that we are making of France and the Republic. Among the false solutions, I also include symbols that do not make a policy, such as the end of the ground law, that some propose. Of course, the Government that I am leading assumed to tighten the criteria of soil law in Mayotte, where an objective specific situation had to be resolved, which was recognized as such by the Constitutional Council. On the other hand, I do not see how, at the country level, the end of land law would be an answer to the migration questions that arise. Let us recall some raw facts. Some 30,000 people have access to French nationality each year through so-called land law. The vast majority of them access it through a voluntary process. They were young people who were born and raised in France, and then took a step towards becoming French. Should we always say no to them? Or are we going to complicate their lives?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u20	Don't caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u21	Can we imagine solving our migration challenges in this way? For my part, I don't believe it. As far as nationality is concerned, it is rather about naturalisations by decree – at the number of 60000 per year – that we could question ourselves, as well as the criteria we give ourselves to verify, for example, the French language level of the candidates. As I have already indicated, I think that this level should be raised, and we will act in that direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u22	We should go to the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u23	Take action, rather than talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u24	I deeply believe that the Republic has solutions to respond effectively to the current migration challenges. These solutions are based on a few principles, which I believe are intangible: first of all a balanced logic of rights and duties. While this principle is simple, it must never be lost sight of. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The second is a principle of humanity, which justifies the part we take in the relief at sea of people in distress, but which also justifies that we give special treatment to the issue of unaccompanied minors. We must be without weaknesses against the channels and against frauds, without naivety in the face of the problem of false minors. As far as real minors are concerned, however, our approach will remain that of child protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u25	We have to give the departments the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u26	They're just words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u27	[[Protests on several benches in the LR group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] The reception of people threatened, persecuted, and freedom fighters, openness to talents, willingness to integrate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u29	... the sovereign right of France to choose who is admitted to stay and who is not – these are our principles. However, they only make sense if they are effective. This implies recognizing that, in order to properly welcome and integrate, the rules of the Republic must first be applied with great firmness. A good reception means controlling migratory flows. Incorporation requires that one can, if necessary, be renewed. Applying the laws of the Republic, without paying for words, is the only way out of confusion, to make room for the exploitation of fears; This is the condition for both the credibility of migration policy and the sustainability of our policies and our integration efforts. I will go even further by saying that the question of an objective steering of admission to the stay is not taboo. I'm not afraid to think about quotas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u30	That's audacity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u31	We must stop thinking, we must act!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u32	We therefore need to look at each subject individually. It has long been known that quotas cannot be applied to asylum or family immigration. Yet it cannot escape control either. There is a need to combat abuse and fraud and to tighten the criteria where necessary. In fact, we have set ourselves ambitious student reception targets within the framework of the "Bienvenue en France" programme. Finally, as far as occupational immigration is concerned, we need to have a pragmatic approach, in relation to our labour needs. If we were to pilot our professional immigration according to quantitative objectives, we would still have to consider the value of quotas by nationality or by professional sector. We need to discuss all of this. In fact, we must take control of our immigration policy so that its results are more the result of a strategy and are less of a mere observation. The policy that we propose to you does not obey the search for an supposed balance that would aim to preserve divergent interests. It's not a little more here, a little less there, that we have to propose. It is a coherent whole of rights and duties, a whole that also implies accepting to revise our software when necessary. In this spirit, here are six guidelines that I submit to the debate to adapt our immigration strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u33	After twenty minutes, it was time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u34	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on a few benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Revising our software is first of all affirming that our official development assistance must be, among other objectives, a lever of our migration policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u35	It's not really new!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u36	I recalled the importance of French ambition in terms of official development assistance. We want to renew our approach to this issue by focusing efforts on the regions of the world where they are most justified and on the most acute development issues – which, for both issues, is not always the case today. [[Mr Claude Goasguen exclaimed]] It is logical that the resources we devote to this aid serve our migration policy, not only by dealing with the root causes of migration, not only in the long term, by supporting economic or social projects, but also more directly by supporting projects aimed at developing the capacity of some States to control their borders, combat smuggling networks or modernise their civil status. Let us make it clear that it is also logical for us to expect States to support, through official development assistance, a high degree of cooperation in controlling illegal immigration. Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, will speak on this subject. Revising our software also means recognizing that the response to the current challenges is largely European. We have built the Europe of free movement; That's good. We need to build the Europe of border protection better; It's urgent. We want to propose to our European partners to reshape the Schengen area, first to better protect the external borders, with the rise of the Frontex agency. Refounding Schengen is also an enhanced solidarity and control capacity within Europe, and it is really bringing our national asylum systems closer together. It is striking in this respect that between two European States the rate of granting asylum to persons of the same nationality can vary from simple to triple. I believe deeply in the role of the European Union Agency for Asylum to ensure greater coherence. This will be one of the themes of the intervention of Christophe Castaner, Minister of the Interior. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The third orientation I propose to you stems from the recognition of the importance of secondary migratory movements. As I said in my policy statement, we must ensure greater European convergence in the conditions for the reception of asylum seekers and migrants. The gaps between Member States are real, for example, as regards the allowance paid to asylum seekers or the conditions for access to the health system. France must, of course, treat all those who reside in its territory. But it must be neither more nor less attractive than its neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u37	"Attractive"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u38	Should it be like Hungary or like Germany?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u39	We must accept to look at things in the face, without taboo, methodically, without denying any of our principles. Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, will present the method proposed by the Government on this subject. The fourth guideline is to give full effect to the law of 10 September 2018 that you voted, by continuing the enforcement efforts, both on the removal of aliens in an irregular situation and on the reduction of the time limits for examining asylum applications. We must reach the average time of six months before the end of the quinquennium. Fifth: we can probably do more and better in terms of integration. Some, on these benches, have recently highlighted the issue of access to the labour market. I believe that integration through work is a major issue. The Government that I lead is the one that has added a professional integration component to the Republican integration contract. This is a good topic for our debate: how can we do even better with regard to integration through work? Labour market access procedures are archaic. I am convinced that, without calling into question the principle of individual authorisation, we must simplify these procedures in order to boost them. Today we are living in a upuesque situation. The rules are draconian, but bypassed by illegal work. I would like both to modernise these rules and to fight more firmly against illegal work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u40	We have to regularize!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u41	Well-accepted and well-integrated, it begins, for the State, by being able to live up to its responsibilities. I hope that we will welcome users of the public service in better conditions. Nocturnal queues are not worthy of what we have to do. The dematerialization of procedures, for which our ambition must be great and our demanding timetable, will help us to remedy this. [[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] Finally, and this will be my sixth focus on the debate, we must continue to attract talent, be it students or people who have already entered working life. I would like us to reflect on the idea of setting annual targets for attracting scarce skills and talent. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the debate that is taking place is necessary and will be useful. Your discussions will feed into the Government's thinking and decisions, and we will ensure, as a result of the debate, transparency on these decisions. It will also be necessary to prolong this debate and to respond to the concerns of our compatriots about the reality of communalism in our country. Yes, there are Community drifts within it: let us also put words on the things our fellow citizens see. Yes, an insidious secession which we do not want, and which does not correspond to the idea we make of France, is developing. This is a problem against which we must act consistently, without weakness, in accordance with the law, with the tools given to us by the government's plan to prevent radicalisation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This is a debate that we are, of course, ready to have as well. But it is a debate in itself, which raises questions other than those that bring us together today, namely the control of migratory flows and the reception of foreign nationals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, on several benches of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the IDU-Agir group]] I shall now leave the floor to the three ministers on your benches; After which I will of course listen carefully to your various interventions. Thank you in advance for the quality of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u42	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u43	To conduct our exchanges in serenity and dignity, we need clarity, starting with that of the facts – the Prime Minister has just mentioned them in part. The reality of the current situation is first and foremost the reduction of migratory movements to Europe. Thus, while the number of irregular entries into the European Union amounted to 1.820_000 million in 2015, it fell to 180000 in 2018; and for 2019, the decrease is currently 29% compared to last year. [[Mr Claude Goasguen exclaimed]] Nevertheless, the subject is not behind us: nor for Europe, because we know that flows can resume; Nor for France, because the reality is that our country is also experiencing a sharp increase in the volume of asylum applications, while the general trend in Europe is declining. It's a French singularity. [["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] This is linked to the increasing number of asylum seekers, as well as to the fact, recalled by the Prime Minister, that asylum seekers in France have often applied in another Member State. This singularity is also due to the fact that many of the requests we receive are made by nationals of countries that we consider safe. Finally, it is due to the fact that, in the eyes of its population, France is far from being the first destination for asylum seekers in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u44	Ah, there you go! Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u45	The second one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u46	[[Exclaims on several LR benches]] You have to say the facts! The reality, however, is that certain mechanisms, first and foremost asylum, are sometimes diverted from their primary purpose to the detriment of those who really need protection and should be the only beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u47	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u48	We also need clarity about our values. Our responsibility in this regard is always to remember what we are and to remain faithful to it; First of all, to recall our humanistic values: respect for the equal dignity of everyone, the moral imperative of helping the most vulnerable, the defence of those who fight for freedom, wherever they come from. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group. - Mr. Stéphane Peu applause, too.]] France cannot forsake these values without abandoning itself. What we are talking about today is many human lives: lives of men, women and often children. Let us never forget it, because ignoring the humanity of the other always means losing his own. We must also recall our history of openness: those who think that the French nation was built in the withdrawal and rejection of the other ignore our past and the thousand faces that made France and its wealth. Finally, we must recall the principles that oblige us, including at the legal level: human rights, the international conventions that we have freely ratified and our European commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u49	Principles that we do not respect, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u50	Finally, we need clarity as to what the broad guidelines of our action should be. Today, one observation is necessary: the facts I have described put the reception and integration system that we have built into tension. If we do not act, what we risk losing is first of all our ability to accommodate, under the best conditions, those who are entitled to asylum in our country. If we do not act, we may also fail to integrate those who have just obtained French nationality or a regular residence permit into our society. If we do not act, we risk finally seeing the Schengen area implode and Europe undo. To say this is not to play the Cassandres: this risk is not theoretical, that's what almost happened four years ago. At the height of the crisis, the Schengen area was in danger and, with it, the cohesion of the European Union, hence its future. It is often said that Europe has been built in crises, and it is true that we must learn all the lessons of 2015. But let us not see any fatality: Europeans must be able to move forward together on this subject without waiting for a new crisis to emerge. To counter this triple risk, we need to be both effective and fair; Our approach must be balanced, accountable and consistent with what we are. But it must also be global, that is, it must articulate all relevant public policies – the Prime Minister has just recalled. A comprehensive approach is also an approach that takes into account all the geographies concerned: first, to act as upstream as possible, with the countries of origin and transit; then, to avoid human tragedies, especially in the Mediterranean; Finally, to better organise us within the European Union. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I was saying: first acting upstream is essential. Our top priority is therefore to cooperate with countries of origin and transit to control the flow of regular and irregular migration to our country. That is why we must use all our instruments of political dialogue, technical exchange and all relevant policies to develop a partnership with the countries of the South, and first and foremost with African countries, based on transparency and reciprocity of commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u51	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u52	Our visa policy, first of all, has three objectives that are not contradictory: to ensure the security of our citizens against threats, to combat illegal immigration and, at the same time, to promote the attractiveness and exchanges of our country. This is the purpose of our support for graduates, entrepreneurs and young professionals, who are an opportunity for France because, back home, nurtured by this international experience, they will be able to make a decisive contribution to the development of their country: it is the meaning of the device of "passport talent", which offers opportunities for extended stay in France to the promoters of innovative projects, in the scientific, artistic or economic fields. Nearly 10,000 talented passports were issued in 2018, and we want to continue this attractive policy. However, we can only do so if, at the same time, we manage to work together with the countries of the South to reduce upstream the risk of visa diversion and fraud that affects legal mobility and to ensure the return and readmission of foreigners who are in an irregular situation in our territory. This is transparency with partner countries. The progress we have made in issuing consular passes, particularly to certain priority countries, shows that our partners in the South understand and support this approach. The partnership we build with them is also based on our joint action for development. Official development assistance has, of course, a specific objective: the fight against poverty and the reduction of inequality. But it is also an essential lever of our migration policy, for three reasons. First, it allows us to carry out humanitarian actions as close as possible to the people: I am thinking in particular of our action in the camps for internally displaced persons and refugees, which, in the Levant, welcome the victims of Daesh and the Syrian conflict; I am also thinking of the actions taken to ensure the protection of refugees and migrants along the Central Mediterranean road and in Libya, through the evacuation operations of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and the returns assisted by the International Organization for Migration, which we support financially and practically. France is committed to resettling 10,000 refugees in 2018 and 2019, and we are delivering on our commitments. Secondly, our official development assistance enables our partners in the South to build the capacity necessary to control migration flows themselves: an up-to-date civil state, tools to combat documentary fraud, but also means to better control their borders and combat smuggling networks and trafficking in human beings. This is the meaning of projects that we are conducting, in connection with the European Union, in several countries such as Senegal, Niger, Mali, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea or Tunisia. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group, on several benches of the MODEM group and on some benches of the IDU-Agir group]] This is often a strong demand from our partners, because the migration challenge does not start at the door of Europe: it is first and foremost a challenge for the countries of the South. Our interest is to help them cope with it. Finally, development assistance is essential to address the root causes of irregular migration over time. [[Same moves. - Mr. Stéphane Peu applause, too.]] No one leaves his country and his own to cross the Mediterranean on a makeshift boat.No one! That too is a fact that we must always bear in mind. Those who take the roads of exile, sometimes bracing the worst dangers, are convinced that they have a future only far from home, and this is the first of the tragedies. We must help them find opportunities, including economic opportunities, where they live. [[Same movements]] Everyone must understand that, when we support access to the care of the Comorian population by strengthening basic social services, when we help young girls in the Sahel stay longer in school so that they escape forced marriages or even early pregnancies, when we offer young people in West Africa the possibility of higher education of excellence through the Franco-Senegal University Campus in Dakar, when we encourage female entrepreneurship in Africa, when we promote agropastoralism in the heart of the Sahel for the benefit of small agricultural sectors, we bring concrete solutions to the development of these countries and, therefore, to the migration challenge. Let us not be naive: in a world fractured by inequalities, a world bruised by crises and conflicts, a world in a state of environmental emergency, the control of migration necessarily requires international solidarity. Let us think that Africa, which has 1.3 billion inhabitants in 2019, will have 2.5 billion in 2050, almost doubling. This demographic issue in Africa concerns us all and our responsibility is to respond to it, in the interests of the countries concerned but also in the interests of the French, through a development policy that is at the same level – we will have the opportunity to return to it within the framework of the law on programming and guidance in the field of development. An up-to-date development policy is a policy that concentrates its efforts on the most vulnerable countries, almost all of which are in sub-Saharan Africa, which deals with the real frailties: health, climate, education, equality between men and women, and which, in turn, promotes job creation. An environment policy that is up to date is a policy that puts the necessary resources, and that is what we will do, as confirmed by the President of the Republic and, at the moment, by the Prime Minister, by raising our official development assistance to 0.55% of national wealth by the end of the quinquennium. This partnership with the countries of origin and transit, we are therefore working on it both nationally and at European level. We will ensure that the next multi-annual financial framework includes funding instruments that match the challenges and integrate migration issues. And this migration issue must also be integrated into the political dialogues between the European Union and third countries, as well as in the preparation of the future post-Cotonou agreement, currently under negotiation with our partners in the ACP countries – Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. Indeed, Europe has an essential role to play: there will be no real solution to the migration challenge unless Europeans act together, and first of all to deal with emergency situations, such as in Libya, where tens of thousands of migrants are trapped in war and human trafficking. Together with our European partners, we are mobilized to find ways to stabilize this country, so that international organisations can resume their work of protecting and evacuating refugees. [[Exclaims on a few SOC benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In the Mediterranean, more than 2,000 people lost their lives in the past year alone at the gates of our continent. This is unacceptable. It is high time to put in place an effective and sustainable rescue and landing mechanism. France has shown that it can be at the meeting, and is fully prepared to participate in the establishment of such a mechanism. To act together is also better to organize us. A window of opportunity has just opened with a new political situation in Italy and with the establishment of a new European Commission, which should soon propose a new pact on immigration and asylum. We must continue our efforts to better control our external borders. The Frontex agency will be able to mobilise 10,000 coastguards and border guards in the coming years to help Member States with border controls and deportations. This is an obvious sovereignty issue because, ladies and gentlemen, without control of the territory, sovereignty is only a vain word. Within the Union, our priority is to recast Schengen in order to preserve freedom of movement in Europe. Some Member States have, simply because of their geographical location, a particular responsibility: to be countries of first entry into the European Union. In concrete terms, this means that the same countries are still on the front line: Italy, Greece, Spain, but also Cyprus and Malta. If we want the rule designating the country of first entry as the Member State responsible for examining applications to be better applied, they must benefit from a European solidarity mechanism. Everyone in Europe must take part in the effort by accepting the relocation of refugees to their territory or another form of solidarity, financial or material, for example. We must never again leave these countries, disadvantaged by geography in this particular case, alone in the face of a challenge that actually affects us all. This is one of the challenges of the revision of the European asylum system, which should allow us to harmonise our national systems, which is essential to combat the secondary movements, which the Prime Minister spoke of. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the few comments I wanted to make on this major subject. Our model of reception and integration is the honour of our Republic. Our duty is to make every effort to adapt it in depth in order to preserve its foundations and viability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u53	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u54	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I have a deep conviction that our immigration, asylum and integration policy does not belong to a ministry: it involves the mobilization of all. Almost three years ago, in Montpellier, during a campaign speech by the President of the Republic, the foundations of our policy in this area were laid. We must work together, address all aspects of our migration policy together, and stay away from the ideas we have received. I know how essential the subject we are going to address is. I measure it, and Laurent Nunez with me, every day at the Ministry of the Interior. This is a subject that is the subject of debate, including in your Assembly. For many of you, this is a question. Speaking of migration policy is often about its own history, and we cannot ignore it. Migration policy is first and foremost an international question: Jean-Yves Le Drian has just talked about it. In this international order, of course, there is Europe. I begin with the European demand because it is at the heart of the challenges, as solutions, because we cannot today think of France without thinking of Europe. The Schengen area has been built on two pillars: freedom of movement within borders and protection of external borders. Very quickly, major progress was made on the first pillar, while the second, basically, did not concern us very much. Today, if we carry out extremely extensive controls at airports, for example,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u55	More than the police prefecture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u56	...some external borders of the European Union, which we call the "green borders", are still poorly controlled and still do not allow for satisfactory management of irregular migration flows. In addition to this difficulty of control, we do not yet have coherent and effective tools and rules between Member States on the right to asylum. It is for this reason that the President of the Republic committed himself, very early, to looking for ways and means to recast Schengen. Why? To encourage the establishment, at the external borders of the European Union, of "controlled centres", which the European Council called for in June 2018; to make sure that we are better supported by the European Border Guard Agency and to work towards the creation of the European Asylum Agency; Finally, to ask the question of the European Union taking over these procedures financially. This Schengen reform, in order to be credible and coherent, must necessarily be accompanied by a concerted reform of the European rules for coordinating the handling of asylum applications. The Dublin Regulation, an essential element of Europe's asylum policy, defined a rule that was clear in appearance: the country of first entry of an asylum-seeker was processing his application. Very quickly, it became apparent that this principle was difficult to apply. As we have seen in Greece and Italy in the past, the massification of arrivals prohibits the proper processing of applications. Moreover, the criminal networks that trade in human lives, but also the multiple demands of the same applicants, make it difficult for European states to show solidarity. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. "Mr. Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] That is my conviction: we cannot forget that behind what some call flows, there are women and men, life paths, and sometimes even life paths.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u58	I know that progress is possible and that solidarity between States can play a role. I was two weeks ago in La Valette with my German counterpart, but also with my Italian and Maltese counterparts. We certainly had conflicting interests, but we managed to define the basis for an agreement to ensure the solidarity of the people collected and saved at sea, in the Central Mediterranean, because there is an urgent need to act – we are all aware of this. Laurent Nunez and Amélie de Montchalin are working to ensure that this agreement is supported by the largest number of states. We must develop this dynamic and achieve as soon as possible a comprehensive reform of the European asylum system, which will aim at the two principles mentioned by Jean-Yves Le Drian: solidarity and responsibility. In this regard, our objectives are clear: better fight against networks and traffic, with European countries of first entry as well as with States of destination, such as France; establishing genuine solidarity with these same countries; counter secondary migratory flows within the European Union, which destabilise the European area. As soon as the new European Commission is set up, we will have to be ready to propose solutions to move ahead with the recasting of Schengen and to defend a reform of the European asylum system. France will be on the rendezvous. It will propose a balance between the responsibility dimension and the demand for solidarity. We are fully mobilized by this objective and will defend it in the Council of Ministers of the Interior of the European Union. However, I am lucid: the discussions will be lengthy and complex. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to recall some facts and realities, because that is where we have to leave. Let's start with regular admissions to the national territory: there were 256000 in 2018, of which 90000 through family immigration, stable, plus 83000 students and 33,000 people who came for economic reasons. These last two motivations are rising sharply, reflecting the attractiveness of our country for talent, and reflecting the choices you have made. These 256,000 regular entries represent twice the number of asylum applications, which, however, often occupy more minds than the reality of this controlled immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u59	With 256,000 entries, it's under control?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u60	As far as asylum applications are concerned, the French reality is singular in relation to other European countries, as the Prime Minister pointed out. Indeed, while asylum applications have declined in Europe over the last two years, they have increased significantly in France. This data must ask us. They affect our ability to handle the demands of those who have a real need for protection and who are, let's say, the first victims of a voltage system. We must be able to explain to the French that a large number of asylum applications come from countries considered safe. The list of these countries is drawn up by the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons, and also derives from the decisions and jurisprudence of the Council of State, which has often had to decide on the matter. Simply put, a safe country is a country where not only the State is not a threat to its citizens, but also where there is an effective judicial system, guaranteeing the rule of law. For example, among the countries with an increasing number of nationals filing asylum applications in France are Georgia and Albania: in one year, asylum applications increased by 86 per cent and 35 per cent respectively. In addition to requests from nationals of safe countries, the Dublin system has failed, since almost 30% of asylum applications lodged in France are made by persons who have already started proceedings in another European country. Again, we must look at things in the face. These figures show that our system may be partly diverted, perhaps partly diverted. They show the very strong pressure on our public services. I am thinking of the prefectures, of course, but also of other services, and among them our health and care system. As the Prime Minister pointed out, these figures justify our decision to increase our accommodation capacity since the beginning of the mandate. Thus, 7,500 places for asylum seekers and 5,000 places for refugees have been created. This is a concrete effort, which you have voted for and which is being implemented. Finally, since May 2017, we have been making the budget for the allowance for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u61	"Sincised"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u62	This effort has been expected for too long: we have consented to it. Ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of the legislature, we have dealt with immigration, asylum and integration issues. We did it with seriousness and serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u63	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u64	We have done so, with the conviction that the word should not only be given to those who do not speak about this issue, but who very often feed on amalgams and untruths. The law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration was a first step. Successive financial laws have been proactively implemented. As you know, this effort will be further scaled up in the Finance Bill for 2020. Today, one year after its enactment, the law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration has fully entered into force. All the regulatory measures necessary to implement it have been taken, and budgetary appropriations, material resources and organizational measures are on hand. This text has allowed for strong, necessary and useful progress, of which I will give two concrete examples. [[Exclaims on some of the SOC and GDR panels]] The first is the extension of the maximum period of detention from 45 to 90 days for foreigners in an irregular situation. You had debated – and that was quite legitimate – the proportionality of this provision and the risk that it would lead to the detention of too many people in closed places, without any certainty as to the usefulness of these custodial measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u65	We already know!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u66	Among these people, there are now 209 children!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u67	First, this measure did not lead to an increase in the average length of detention. Second, only 10 per cent of people in detention centres stay there for more than 45 days. Third and final observation: in 40 per cent of cases of residence in administrative detention centres of more than 45 days, actual removals from the territory are carried out. I say that, ladies and gentlemen, without the law that you passed, we could not have carried out those reappointments. The second example is the possibility for prefects to take, in certain cases – in particular for applications from nationals of safe countries or for persons who have disturbed public order – removal measures as soon as the OFPRA makes a decision to reject the asylum application and it is confirmed by the courts. Since its entry into force, this provision has allowed prefects to impose more than 3000 obligations to leave French territory. This measure is simple, effective and very understandable for the sectors which organise the arrival in our territory of people who intend to mislead our asylum tradition. Also know that with Laurent Nunez, we increase the number of trips to the countries of origin concerned and the contacts with their authorities, in order to build cooperations of trust. These steps are effective. This is not only proof of the unprecedented level of cooperation that we have achieved with the countries of origin of foreigners in an irregular situation for the issuance of consular documents necessary for removals, but also of the success of complex removal operations: aid for voluntary return through a more calibrated and targeted mechanism; controls at internal borders; forced removals, finally, up 10% in 2018 and even more in 2019. In the field of combating irregular immigration, all the tools are therefore mobilised. Of course, construction sites remain open. That is precisely the subject of this debate. We must, for example, take into account the desire of most refugees to reside in large urban centres, because most of them have work opportunities. I am convinced that integration will be achieved through, among other things, job integration. In response to the invitation we sent them by mail last Thursday, Julien Denormandie and I will soon receive mayors who have committed themselves to succeed in this challenge, or who have expressed their intention to contribute to it. But we must also ensure that housing and employment opportunities in smaller cities are seized. This is the idea of the "directive direction" on which we are working. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our immigration policy is aimed at one outcome, and only one: the integration of those we choose to welcome. Strong steps have been taken in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u68	Numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u69	We have reviewed our integration path to double the number of hours of French and civic training, and have considerably strengthened the programs that promote occupational integration. In just two years, the budgetary resources dedicated to integration policies have been raised to unprecedented levels in our history. A few weeks ago, I went with Muriel Pénicaud to Juvisy, to people benefiting from the HOPE programme – job-oriented accommodation – integration through work. We have seen its effectiveness. This confirms, ladies and gentlemen, that we made a good choice last June, following the report by Aurélien Taché, by extending our integration policies to vocational integration. However, we must go even further, and I am convinced that we can do better for women, for qualified refugees who cannot always work in the professions to which they have been trained, but also for those sectors in tension that are struggling to recruit. On this subject, we have begun a reflection to simplify the procedures and revisit the list of so-called "volunteer" professions, of which the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – regularly reminds us of limitations and imperfections. Ladies and gentlemen, like you, I am going to the field, I am listening to the French, their remarks and their fears. Of all these meetings, I have one conviction: the heart of our immigration policy is the success of integration. This is the key to our republican pact, and it is the best bulwark against communalism; integration will only be successful if our rules, clear and legible, are respected. The values of the Republic are a red line on which one cannot compromise. It's our duty to take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u70	Put a little more conviction in it, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u71	It is a duty vis-à-vis the French, and a duty vis-à-vis those who ask us to welcome. We need lucidity, no fantasies. We need courage, not a priori. We must live up to the challenges and expectations, and leave no questions and no individuals unanswered. In the same way, we must not leave any aspect of the debate in the shadows. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Jean-Christophe Lagarde also applauds]] I would like to apologize for having to leave our debates before they are finished: I am indeed about to receive the families of the people who died last Thursday in the police prefecture of Paris, in order to prepare with them the tribute that will be paid to them tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u72	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u73	To open a debate on immigration is not to question our principles, it is not to compromise with our values, it is to question a sensitive phenomenon in order to understand it in all its complexity. In this area, as in many others, we must keep it right. As a matter of responsibility, solutions cannot be prescribed like other slogans. To be responsible does not mean being naive: to be responsible is to act with discernment, based on reliable data and available knowledge. Doing not dissociate knowledge from action is often the best way to know how to be useful, and the best way for action to be relevant. Immigration is multiple. It has various causes and takes various forms at each time. In recent years, major crises have transformed it. In his speech by the Sorbonne, the President of the Republic called for "the construction of a common area of borders, asylum and immigration". These words are more relevant than ever. They offer the European Union a prospect of common intelligence and sovereignty. In the coming weeks and months, it will be up to the renewed European institutions to build this common area, because a Europe that knows how to control migratory flows, it is Member States that welcome better. It is about our humanity, as well as respecting the conventions to which we are parties and whose access to fundamental rights is an essential pillar. Our country honors – I insist on this word – for having enshrined in its Constitution the right to health for all. He honors himself to allow everyone, regardless of their situation, access to care. Care in France is based on a "universal" disease protection, since it allows every person who works or resides in France to benefit from the care of his or her health care costs on a stable and regular basis. It is an ancient choice, almost consubstantial to the creation of social security, which makes that in France your health insurance does not depend on your job or your status. This protection is thus accessible irrespective of the nationality of the insured person; It includes foreign nationals with residence permits, refugees, as well as asylum seekers. As you know, there are also arrangements for the care of irregular migrants who do not meet the criteria of universal health protection. This is state medical aid, the AME, which covers the essential care of these people, in the framework of city medicine as well as in the hospital. Coverage is not immediate, as it requires a presence of at least three months in the territory. In addition, it is issued on a means-tested basis. If these conditions are not met, care is then limited to emergency care. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – MM. Jean-Christophe Lagarde and Bertrand Pancher also applaud]] These procedures are indispensable. They are, of course, for humanitarian reasons: in France, people are not left to perish because they lack the right stamp on the right document.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u74	No one ever said you had to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u75	[[Same moves. – Mrs Valérie Rabault also applauds]] It is a public health imperative not to let diseases get worse and potentially spread. For everyone, it is a matter of humanity, and for doctors, it is the respect of an oath taken. [[Same movements]] If state medical aid is essential, it is also because it allows for better control of our public spending.We know that the late management of a disease is systematically more expensive than the timely management of city medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u76	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u77	[["Yes! » on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] However, state medical aid feeds a lot of confusion, caricatures and misunderstandings, which themselves feed into discourses of fear and retreat.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u79	A lot of false information is circulating about the AME, and I want to clarify things to you once and for all. The level of care is lower for AME beneficiaries than for regular insured persons, who, at this level of resources, benefit from CMU-C, the supplementary universal health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u80	It's not a criterion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u81	To be more precise, the costs of spa treatments, medically assisted procreation – LDCs – and medicines with low medical service, i.e. 15%, are not covered by the AME.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u82	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u83	Much of the costs covered by health supplements, such as dental or optical costs, are not covered by the AME.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u84	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u85	Since aesthetic care is not covered by the health insurance, it is obviously not covered by the AME either.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u86	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u87	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u88	With regard to other social rights, the aim is to facilitate the integration of people. On this subject, I want to put an end to the accepted ideas that foreigners in an irregular situation should have wide access to social benefits: that is not true. Persons in an irregular situation are not entitled to any benefit other than care. I do not include asylum seekers, who are not considered to be in an irregular situation in our territory. With regard to persons in a regular situation, we apply constitutional principles and international rules that are binding on all and through which access to fundamental rights is realized. I am thinking, for example, of family benefits, which reflect the right to a normal family life, which is a principle of constitutional value. I am also thinking of housing allowances, which are closely linked to the right to housing. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These principles are clear and we are committed to them. However, equality of treatment is not total: most social minimums are subject to more restrictive residence conditions for foreign nationals in a regular situation than for French nationals. This difference in treatment should not be an obstacle to the quality of care, because adapting to the problems specific to migrants means welcoming not only with humanity, but above all with intelligence. Going to these populations means not only ensuring that the right to health is a reality for them, but also taking a first step towards their integration. The access to health care permanences, the "PASS", which welcome everyone unconditionally, have a mission of medical and social accompaniment to the most vulnerable people. There are currently 455 PASS, 61 of which are mobile PASS to facilitate access to rights; This is an essential entry point for the care of migrants, and their capacity has been strengthened. Aurélien Taché's report on an ambitious policy for the integration of foreigners arriving in France emphasises the need for effective access to health, particularly through the management of post-traumatic stress. That is why I started work on the health path of first-time migrants as soon as I arrived, so that this care would be adapted to their specific needs. We know these needs and we can anticipate them. These are the vulnerabilities generated by the migration route, with what it may involve as psychotrauma or sexual abuse. It is the prevalence of certain diseases in countries of origin, or because of the conditions of migration. These are situations of extreme fragility faced by pregnant women or children. Finally, these are all the difficulties associated with the lack of knowledge of the health system and the steps that must be taken in a language that is not always mastered. The aim of the first-comers' health path, built with the voluntary sector, health professionals and regional health agencies, is to structure and strengthen the health path of these newly arrived people, whether or not they are in an irregular situation, and to organise a care of the needs as early as possible. It is normal, however, to question the efficiency of this system and the identification of possible abuses. Combating abuses is not to weaken our system, it is to strengthen it, by restoring confidence which seems to be lacking today. So I come back to state medical aid. We can talk about numbers without false modesty. It is true that the expenditure is important; it stood at €848 million in 2018, up 6% from 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u89	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u90	This increase is due to the increase in the number of beneficiaries but also, to a lesser extent, to the increase in the cost of care, which is true for the care provided by the AME as well as for other care. Although the increase in cost per recipient over 10 years is increasing by 0.5% per year, which remains measured and, above all, lower than the increase in the cost of health for the general population, it is legitimate to examine these expenditures in more detail to see if they could be more efficient. A task has therefore been assigned to the general inspections to provide useful insights into possible fraud or abuse, to study the arrangements in place in other European countries and to propose ways of improving them. These leads will be able to take into account the models in place in our main neighbours, although, beyond comparisons, this is the most relevant and effective management framework we need to study. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Jean-Christophe Lagarde also applauds]] Several options are currently being considered by the inspection mission. If I look at all the proposals with great attention, I would like to make it clear today that I will not consider any solution based on the financial participation of those admitted to the AME.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u91	And we can trust you, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u92	This would be too important a barrier to effective access to care. The temporary introduction of a stamp duty in 2011 showed that such a measure merely deferred the costs of taking care of urgent care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u94	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u95	Two more leads are being investigated by the inspection mission. The first would be to make access to certain benefits subject to prior agreement, apart from urgent or vital care. The second would be to adjust the scope of the care basket supported by the AME. Once again, these are only avenues for reflection, and I expect the mission to make its findings at the end of this month in order to make a decision. However, we do not wait until the end of the mission to strengthen controls.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u96	Ah! Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u97	The AME and urgent care should not be diverted and should benefit those who are actually entitled to it. These checks cover eligibility conditions for AME, such as the length of stay and the actual resources of applicants. They may also take place a posteriori, in particular on the beneficiaries who have the most recourse to care. The consolidation of AME applications into three primary health insurance funds will enable them to be better monitored.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u98	We'll have to recruit people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u99	We will thus deploy a plan to combat fraud. Another measure of this plan will help to combat a well-identified phenomenon: the misappropriation of proceedings by foreign nationals who, although they are covered by private insurance under a Schengen visa, ask for the AME or for urgent care to be taken in order to receive care considered to be of better quality in France than in their country of origin. Health insurance funds will have access at the end of the year to the Visabio database of the Ministry of the Interior, which will allow to identify applicants concealing a visa and therefore not intended to benefit from the AME or from urgent care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u100	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u101	This plan to combat fraud can be enriched in the light of the conclusions of the General Inspections Report, in particular with regard to the possibility of imposing prior agreement on certain non-emergency care which may be subject to fraud or trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u102	We'll have to hire controllers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u103	This is, in a very concrete and pragmatic way, how we intend to remove suspicions about a system to which we are very attached and which must not suffer from any mistrust or mistrust. With regard to the particular case of asylum seekers, the scheme is that of membership in health insurance, which is often part of the CMU-C, as soon as the application is filed. The Prime Minister referred to this: there has been a significant increase in asylum applications by persons from countries reported to be of "safe origin", which means that in the vast majority of cases these asylum applications will not succeed. Abuse is therefore made possible by this immediate membership of the health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u104	[[Smile]] It makes you cough, Madam Minister; Keep your voice for bioethics!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u105	Pragmatism and justice are needed. Suspicions are not evidence; Only an in-depth study will allow us to confirm the existence of channels benefiting from this rule, so to rethink, if this proves relevant, the conditions of insurance coverage for asylum seekers. This study is under way as part of the inspection mission I mentioned earlier. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] If we want to avoid the asylum application being used as a vector for the sole purpose of obtaining the care that can be provided in the applicant's country, a waiting period could be conceived.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u106	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u107	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This three-month waiting period, during which we would obviously take care of the urgent care, already exists for the French who return from abroad without a professional activity. [[Exclaims on some of the banks of the FIand GDR groups]] Fighting fraud is an act of justice, for the abuses committed by a few can fuel a suspicion that harms everyone; and it goes without saying that fighting fraud does not, on the contrary, call into question our constitutional obligation to have access to health for all. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We know this very well: it is not by restricting the conditions of care in our country that we will discourage the people concerned from joining France. Doing so would not only give way to an announcement effect, as easy as it is not respectful of principles: it would add indifference to misfortune; It would be strong with the weak, and that is not the idea that each of us is making of the greatness of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u108	So? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u109	[[Same moves. "Mr. Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] Going to people, focusing on prevention and ensuring that our system is not abused is the key to an effective and responsible model. It is also the key to a restored trust, so I hope the end of the trials in generosity – because anger is sometimes wrong. For the Minister of Solidarity and Health I am, taking mobility and migratory flows into account is essential. Essential because we have a duty of humanity and relevance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u110	And firmness, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u111	...and I do not see that our health care system, among the best in the world, can be closed to the most fragile people residing in our territory. Essentially, it is also because we have a duty of responsibility:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u112	And firmness! ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u113	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... we don't want some people to give up treatment and go to the hospital late, which would ultimately lead to an increase in hospital expenditure on emergency care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u114	At least listen to what the minister says!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u115	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Jean-Christophe Lagarde also applauds]] For this same reason, it is necessary to ascertain the relevance of the care provided to migrants. Far from prejudices and fantasies, or a demonstration of force and intransigence towards vulnerable populations, our demand must be that of justice and fairness, because in such circumstances the force becomes violence and intransigence, of relentlessness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u116	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Vigier, the first of the 27 speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u117	For more than 20 years, Parliament has been working on an average every 16 months on a text related to immigration issues: issues that are among the issues of greatest concern to the French, constantly fuel fears and raise nationalism in France and Europe. Why this new debate? Probably because the 25% increase in asylum applications since 2017 has left no one indifferent. I imagine that the Government wishes to convey a message of firmness, or perhaps forget the remarks made by the President of the Republic, who, in 2015, applauded Angela Merkel for having decided to welcome 1 million migrants to Germany, a decision whose consequences are now known. Finally, I dare not assume that this debate is based on purely electoral grounds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u118	A little, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u119	In any case, you do not run the risk of uncovering cracks in your majority, since there will be no vote, which I find regrettable. Mr Prime Minister, the migration policy of France and Europe is a subject that we must talk about without naivety, without angelism, with courage and with a spirit of responsibility. We must therefore tell the French the truth: we have not become the first migration destination, that is true, but according to Eurostat we are in eleventh place in relation to the number of inhabitants. Nor have we become the most attractive country, since we are the fifteenth largest country in Europe. The countries around us, Spain, Belgium, Ireland or Croatia, are much more in demand than we are; and it is Greece, Cyprus and Malta, which receive the most migrants, taking full advantage of the Dublin agreements. See in my remarks the desire to face a painful situation for many of our compatriots, little or no information, who encounter difficulties in finding a job or housing, or even being welcomed, and therefore do not always understand our immigration policy. But the situation is also painful for many migrants, who imagine Europe as an Eldorado and must quickly disappoint. However, the migration crisis is still there, less violent than in 2015, but present. Every day, women, men and children put their lives at risk in order to reach our continent. They are asylum seekers forced to leave their homeland; They turn their backs to their roots to escape violence and death. The majority of them come from Afghanistan, Albania and Georgia; They are waiting for the protection promised to them. Others are driven by economic reasons, and we do not escape the increase in this migration. Prime Minister, our choices must be guided by three words. The first is that of "humanity", because certain humanitarian emergencies call for a response from the international community, from Europe, from France, to the drama experienced by these families carried to our shores, or for which the road from exile ends in the depths of the Mediterranean. The second is the firmness, faced with illegal immigration, irregular stays, the channels of smugglers who exploit human misery. The third, finally, is efficiency, so that asylum seekers who do not obtain refugee status do not remain in our territory clandestinely and that economic immigration corresponds to our needs. It is on these conditions alone that we can show that immigration is not just a matter of numbers, of cost to our public finances, of pressure on jobs and wages. The fears expressed about immigration are real in France and elsewhere in Europe: we must hear them and respond to them in the most just way possible. However, European asylum and immigration policy is marked by inconsistencies and shortcomings on the part of Member States such as Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The European Union must harmonise its rules and reception conditions, and be vigilant with regard to cooperation with third States: I am thinking of Turkey, which has suspended the agreement on the readmission of migrants and has again allowed them to leave its coasts to join ours, as well as the Libyan case, strongly denounced by the UN, the United Nations. Europe and France must strengthen official development assistance: as you said, Prime Minister, it is an essential lever to give people hope, to keep them away from the fundamentalisms that feed on poverty, and to enable them to participate in the prosperity of their country. Our national community has always been enriched by the diversity of its origins, but it is illusory to think that our country can be a land of welcome without limits. The right of asylum is the honour of France, you recalled; it must be preserved, respected, applied; But it is because asylum is a fundamental right that we need to reform our migration policy. Let us stop experiencing successive waves of economic immigration: let us finally, like Canada, establish a quota mechanism by trade, voted annually by Parliament. Let us establish the responsibilities of each individual for unaccompanied minors, whose overburdens for the departments amount to more than €2 billion. Let us look back at the medical aid for foreigners – as you mentioned, Madam Minister – by fighting a number of well-known abuses: I am thinking in particular of Georgian nationals. Let us also recast the ADA – aid for asylum seekers – which is often misguided.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vigier...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] You will understand this: the Government is facing its responsibilities on this serious matter; It is important that we act with courage, dignity and efficiency to become the driving force behind the recasting of the European asylum and immigration policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u122	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u123	We have been approaching a taboo debate in France since 1983, rarely based on facts and even on experience, so much to talk about immigration unleashes the most irrational passions, so much to confront populists, dreamers and laxists – and I fear, Prime Minister, that this is the media fate of this debate. Unfortunately, we are experiencing immigration without learning how to manage it collectively. Mrs Buzyn recalled earlier, very usefully, the fantasies of social protection "granted" to people in an irregular situation: after years of explanation, we still fail to restore the truths that you have stated. The first of these truths is that immigration is not a national phenomenon, nor is it even a European phenomenon. Nor is it temporary or temporary. It is a global, sustainable phenomenon that will grow in a globalized world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u124	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u125	If an issue is to bring us closer, it is to learn how to manage this phenomenon, since it is not a crisis, nor even a problem, but a state of affairs. This is the first time that a debate on immigration has brought together so many members of the Government, representing so many sectors: this confirms the need for a comprehensive strategy, publicly debated and publicly chosen. I also hope, Mr Prime Minister, that this debate can take place every year, so as not to leave the impression that there would be anything to hide, but on the contrary to show a willingness to build something in common. This will must first be part of a European framework: as you said, I will only come back to it briefly. We have been so slow to share the guard of our external borders! We have done so only in the face of the migration crisis linked to the events in Iraq and Syria. The lack of political will on the part of those who challenged Europe, and challenged it with the possibility of protecting our borders, plunged our countries into a crisis some of which are having a hard time getting out of – I am of course thinking, Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, of our Italian friends. To the right of asylum which must be harmonised throughout the European continent, to the safe countries, to the processing times – Mr Prime Minister, you will allow me to say that they are of course linked to the number of asylum applications, but also to the means we devote to them, and the political will in this regard seems indispensable to me – is added a national problem which no one has yet mentioned, concerning Dublin. If, today, 30,000 to 40,000 people who have applied for asylum in another country come to France without us being able to refuse it, it is because our Constitution, in its 1946 Preamble, obliges us to consider a request even if it has been rejected by friendly countries. Only a revision of this Preamble would allow us to avoid these "double dublinés", the case of which is unique to France; We must tell the French, and our Parliament must deal with it. Finally, Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, we must step up our development aid, which still requires resources, but European resources. Countries exonerate themselves: a few years ago, the Danes thought that Africa's problems were not their problems; the migration crisis has shown them that the development of Africa affects them just as much as Italy, Spain or France. It is also necessary to make it possible for these countries to cooperate fully with each other on the readmission of their nationals when they are not admitted to France. Some countries that we help, unfortunately, "play on the edges" in this regard. Let us be objective: the Minister for the Interior, I believe, referred earlier to the different categories of visas that we are granting. Let us quickly pass on the 83,000 students, indispensable, who participate in the influence of France when they return home.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u126	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u127	Whether it is economics, international relations or simply politics, the diplomatic corps is happy to have, in front of it, interlocutors trained in our country. Labour-related immigration, on the other hand, is the smallest in volume: some 30,000 visas, as you have pointed out, have been granted in this capacity. Nevertheless, it would seem appropriate to revise the list of professions in tension – since it has not been so since 2008 when reality has had to change since then – and, above all, Philippe Vigier said, to set quotas for each trade, sector of activity, corresponding to France's needs, as in Canada. Otherwise, foreigners are being lied to by telling them that they can make an application which, in view of their profession, has no chance of exercising their right of residence on our soil. As far as asylum is concerned, it is not only misled in the political debate but also hijacked in practice. The right to asylum is sacred. It is an essential component of our country and its values. In my opinion, however, it is disoriented by those who would like to extend the right of asylum – which should be agreed only in the political sense – to economic asylum and climate asylum. We should not take these last two concepts into account, but we should protect political asylum. Many of you have reminded us that this will only be possible if we are able to implement it, which involves rapid processing of cases, coordination with safe countries, and readmission measures. No less than 90,000 first asylum applications are addressed to our country, but many people who have been rejected remain in France, which is legitimate. This is our biggest failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u128	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u129	Only one in five people have to leave France, which means that about 60000 people remain in France every year. In ten years, half a million people will eventually be regularized in our country because we did not know, ab initio, that they would be taken home when the right of asylum was denied. Our system, hypocritical, must be reformed. We must give ourselves the means to send people home, otherwise it is not worth pretending to send them a prefect's paper to warn them that one day they will have to leave! In reality, we will eventually regularize them. You mentioned family reunification. Mr Minister of the Interior, I was already denouncing, at the time when Mr Sarkozy was in your place, the inconsistency of the rules that govern him. It is not a problem, you say; But I think he's putting one down. We should lay down a principle: a person who wants to bring a member of his family to France must have the means to take full responsibility for it, without asking for social assistance. Do you know, Prime Minister, that today a person who wants to bring his spouse and child must earn 1,204 euros a month and occupy a 32 square metre dwelling, the equivalent of a studio in a social housing unit? However, when three people occupy such social housing, they are asked for a transfer, while resources limited to 1204 euros to support three people are entitled to the APL – personalized housing aids.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u130	That's enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u131	You can see the inconsistency between social housing and accompaniment policies and family reunification policies. This system needs to be reviewed. You wanted proposals, Prime Minister. The little experience I have gained in Seine-Saint-Denis will allow me to make you two or three.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u133	I fully agree with what you said about state medical assistance, Minister. I'm tired of hearing that this would be a gift to the people who settle here when it's a gift to all those who are here and are thus protected from the most serious diseases. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] Tuberculosis, for example, has reappeared in Seine-Saint-Denis, a department that Mr. Nunez knows well. I prefer that the AME be granted to all those who need it rather than taking the risk that our compatriots will be infected with tuberculosis, transmitted by undocumented people who could not have been treated. It's so obvious that everyone should go there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u134	He's right about that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u135	Don't make it a totem either. I appreciate the minister's approach. We can study this device to analyze faults, that's right. However, it seems to me much more important to look at the case of tourist visas. Between 80 and 90 per cent of people who are abusively referred to as "undocumented" are in fact illegal immigrants, who have entered France regularly but have remained in France irregularly. The tourist visa is thus the main provider of persons in an irregular situation. We need to ask ourselves how we are effectively following up on requests. Our assembly – not just this majority, but all those I've seen parade here – thus refuse the responsibility of the host, even to point out that the person is not going back. This is one of the reasons why we cannot act realistically, pragmatically and decisively, while remaining human. Similarly, the town halls issuing the reception certificates are not informed that the previous person has left. I was mayor for eighteen years. When you receive ten requests for hospitality certification in the year, you end up accepting them because they meet the conditions, but you begin to doubt the effectiveness of the departure of the people who have been accepted. Prime Minister, I had tried to make it clear to Mr Collomb: our system "wrongs the lives" of honest people who need to visit their families in France, without preventing those who want to cheat from accessing our territory. I would like to see a three-year visa for regular family visits. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will mention the case of Mr Fatealy, a pharmacist in my commune of Drancy, Malagasy of origin, now French and perfectly integrated. His parents live 1000 kilometres from Antananarivo. There's no TGV and they can't fly. They must therefore travel for three days to apply for a visa that will allow them to review their grandchildren. The return will take them the same time. And they'll have to do the same trip again to get their visa. They will have travelled 4000 km to get a visa! They came three times to France and always left. Why are these people being forced to file new applications for a tourist visa on an ongoing basis when we could allow them, like businessmen, to go and come for a fixed period of time, which would allow them to lead a normal family life? Finally, Prime Minister, I want to stress the importance of promoting integration...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u136	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u137	... by imposing schooling on parents who are the first to arrive. We educate their children but forget to teach the French language to parents, to offer them naturalization when their residence card has to be renewed. A ten-year card will always be renewed: as much as offering to become French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u138	Thank you, Mr. Lagarde.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u139	A new law will be needed, with new legal tools. The debate is just beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u140	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u141	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as exciting as each other's words are, if each 'carrot' speaker for a minute and a half, the debate will be extended by an hour. I hope that we will not, then, have to make the observation that these spans are empty and the debates are insufficiently followed. Discipline benefits everyone. Mr Luc Carvounas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u142	You are inviting us today to a major national debate on migration policy. All right. I know that many of us in this House are familiar with these issues in our constituencies and have visited at least once a migrant camp, which has made us aware of their accommodation conditions. This debate must be approached with lucidity but with a political prism which, in my view, cannot be the one to which President Macron invites us. [["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] In fact, I say this before irritating the Members of the majority, the simple fact that Jean-Marie Le Pen validates the President's speech must worry us collectively. Your majority is bulwark against the far right, but you become the bridge! Migration policy primarily concerns human beings, who have a name, a face and a history. For my part, I visited the reception centre for isolated minors in Pantin. I was still, last Wednesday, at the door of the Chapel in Paris, to meet the asylum seekers of the migrant camp and to go to the famous hill. With regard to migrant camps set up throughout France by asylum seekers, we know that there are at least 30,000 places missing. My group's political vision is clear. If we are not in favour of an unconditional reception of the stay, we are campaigning, with many NGOs – non-governmental organisations – for unconditional accommodation for asylum seekers. We must ensure decent reception conditions under our humanitarian asylum obligations. Moreover, since 2015, the independence of OFPRA, guaranteed by law, is inseparable from respect for the right of asylum in France. In fact, it is completely unconscious to think that by letting human beings pile up in the streets, under unworthy and unhealthy conditions, others will be discouraged from escaping war or misery. We can build these 30,000 accommodation spaces. Letting people out on the street means setting up a "manufacturing of madness" that will only worsen the situation in our cities. What purpose do you pursue with this debate? Do you really want to move forward with real solutions? Forgive me, Prime Minister, but I have not heard anything to this effect in the various government statements. At the moment, on the benches of the majority, it is the Lépine contest: stigmatization of Albanians, stigmatization of Georgians, questioning of state medical aid, migration quotas even though they are ineffective and unfeasible. It is known that migration or major replacement are only dangerous and morbid fantasies. In January 2017, candidate Emmanuel Macron told the newspaper Le Monde: "The subject of immigration should not worry the French population. [...] Immigration proves to be an opportunity from an economic, cultural and social point of view. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u143	You voted for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u144	Who to believe? The candidate Macron or President Macron? What have you done in these two years? You passed the "asylum and immigration" law, disputed even on the benches of your majority! You did not even react to the appointment of a European Commissioner for the protection of our way of life. You left local authorities completely abandoned in the face of the arrival of asylum seekers. You even criminalized solidarity. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my support for Martine Landry, who was brought before the courts for the offence of solidarity. Where is the "at the same time"? Where's the balance? When President Macron compares humanism to laxism, there is no longer any doubt about your intentions. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC group. – Mrs. Danièle Obono also applauds]] How can I not mention the fight, as I have done on current issues, that I have been leading for four months alongside the undocumented workers of the site of Chronopost d'Alfortville, who went on strike? They are denied access to their social claims on the pretext that they are in an irregular situation. What is the Government doing against these big companies that maintain modern slavery in order to multiply their profits? Why don't we get an answer from you? We are well aware that it is not enough to denounce your migration policy. That is why we propose realistic solutions: to establish a European humanitarian visa, to establish an effective right of hospitality, to create a European fund to support local authorities, to anticipate climate migration, to establish medical cooperation with certain countries, to ensure effective and free access to prefectural services, in accordance with the law, and, according to the wish of more than 20 NGOs, to harmonise the right of asylum at European level, by leaving the "dublin" system, without degrading the reception of applicants. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The "at the same time" does not work for values. Braconing on the lands of the National Rally, while the French themselves do not make immigration a priority theme, will only strengthen this party. You are yourself preparing a deleterious Italian climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u145	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u146	[[Applause on some of the SOC benches, as well as on several benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Claims on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] At a time when our compatriots are questioning you about the future of their pensions, climate emergencies or purchasing power, you are wrong about debate and priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u147	That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u148	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u149	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] President, ministers, colleagues, after the Government's speaking time, I have only ten minutes of speaking time. So I'll be as direct as you expect. We saw today that you've changed your tone since what you said a few days ago. Maybe you scared yourself of the consequences of what you triggered. Why do you want to stir that up, Mr. Édouard Philippe, Mr. Emmanuel Macron? You deliberately decided to inject a dose of poison, mistrust and discord into the country's veins. How dare you say that by addressing this topic, you raise a taboo to end a "denial of reality"? How dare you say that our country has been deprived of discussions on this subject? The Le Pen family has been doing this for forty years! It has been forty years since the same arguments came to the table, forty years since the same lines were opposed to them, forty years since the French people made their electoral arrangements with full knowledge of the matter! As for Parliament, it is debating it at the average of one text per year! Since the beginning of the quinquennium, it has been the third time that we have discussed immigration in this House. So many chatterings with cruel consequences for those who suffer the consequences. And what is the outcome of this legislative work? That's what you didn't tell us, Prime Minister. What is the record of all these measures? When was he trained? What, in particular, is your own assessment, since you have had two texts on the subject voted on? We don't know that. No one will know. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So we can ask ourselves questions. Perhaps you return because the balance sheet is not good; and if you have been bad in the past, why would you be good in the future? In reality, we are summoned to be the setting for a new propaganda operation in a permanent electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u150	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u151	In my opinion, the country deserves better. As you have failed to make the dream of being a billionaire, as by crossing the street you can't find a job and as the big, repeated debates get drunk, you are recirculating the great social bond of our time, the subject of the permanent buzz: fear and distrust! Fear of everything, of everyone and especially of what is different and unexpected. [["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Whether you want it or not, you have again chosen to make the immigrant the scapegoat of the country's problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] The immigrant, rather than the financier who plunders our country and on whom you say nothing; the immigrant, rather than the tax fraudster who steals 80 to 100 billion euros each year from this country! The immigrant, rather than the corrupt ones who robbed the country's industry abroad! When the rich and powerful run away from tax, they compare tax regimes to take advantage of our country without taking their part in its existence; So they see that the poor do the same by comparing social regimes. With you, strangers are adulated if they come to speculate on our wealth, but point fingers if they come to produce it through their work. The country deserves better. You are misleading us in an absurd direction: we must deal with the causes of the problems that arise, not revenge on them against their victims. Immigration is a growing phenomenon in the world – expanding! First of all, it is because of the ravages of liberal policies that are devastating the economies of so many countries: Europe, in particular, has submitted thirty-two African countries to economic partnership agreements ruining them. It is then the result of the wars that these economic violences trigger. Finally, it is now the result of climate change, which will throw nearly 1 billion people on the roads of flight. At present, only 17% of migrants come to Europe. Everything else is dilute in the space of the countries of the South. Now is the time or never to develop policies to reverse the phenomenon. The most urgent is to allow people to stay at home; because they do not leave out of pleasure but forced and forced, for lack of a desirable future on the spot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u155	That's what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We would do the same, Mr.Édouard Philippe, you and I, if we were in their place, for ourselves and for our children. This is what 500,000 Greeks and 400,000 Spaniards did in the face of the ruin of their country. We turn our backs on this challenge to human civilization as a whole. People must be able to stay at home. "Living and working in the country," we said thirty years ago, when we refused migration between French regions! There is a need to relocate productions and to have good use of borders. Goods and capital must move less freely so that people are not forced into their dance. What kind of wall are you going to invent to protect yourself against the desire of every human being to improve his or her existence? You shed big tears on the Berlin Wall; He fell. It has been built from seventy-five in the world, over 40,000 kilometers long, that is to say the equivalent of the circumference of the earth! All this leads nowhere. Responding to a challenge first requires the right diagnosis. The country deserves better than a collage of fantasies and DIY technocrats. [[Applause on the benches of the FI groups. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon and Mr Alain David also applaud]] Immigrants are victims of an economic and geopolitical order; You're pointing at them. The damage is greater than it seems, Prime Minister: the ancestors of a quarter of us have come from their ranks. When we stigmatize the newcomer, we stigmatize at the same time the millions of us who are their children of yesterday and who are proud of their sacrifice and effort. The President dared to say that the popular circles were not lucky enough for the bourgeois not to associate with foreigners – it is his vocabulary, not mine. The country deserves better. For the bourgeois, you figure, also frequent strangers. But they're not the same; They do not realize this, for these foreigners belong to the same social class as them. As for popular circles, they were forcibly parked in the same places. Do you want to mix people better? We are in favour of that. But, in the meantime, why stigmatize those who are there? What do you know about the thousands of them who come from it and who are the pride and success of the homeland? Look at the benches of this assembly: you will also see how France makes itself. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs. Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] And even if some immigrants would not have succeeded, would your children be ready to get up at five o'clock in the morning to go clean the offices, ready to go breathe the asphalt to pour on the roads, ready to keep the kids of others at home? Think, from time to time, of saying thank you, regardless of the status of the persons considered. Imagine this nightmare, colleagues: that one day immigrants all leave, tired of being mistreated as they are. Social security would be instantly ruined due to a lack of sufficient contributors; the economy would collapse by anaemia of popular consumption and because it would miss the hundreds of thousands of arms and heads that make it run today. What about France? So what would she be like? We must love France, we must know who it is to understand all that it can do. With the right of the ground, the French people can make France of any wood. We are a republican nation, that is, our motto can be applied to every human being, regardless of their culture or ethnic origin. We are a universalist nation, or we are no longer France. The answer to the inevitable problems of immigration, large or small, is in a few words: we do not need new detention camps, new rules or laws; we need more teachers in schools, more vocational training, more quality housing, more work to be distributed; We need thousands of hands and heads at work, prepared to achieve the immense ecological transition of agriculture and industry and to face the consequences of climate change that is now under way. More work is needed to balance social accounts and pensions, thereby dispersing jealousy and competition between people. Instead of what you come to tell us about savings on state medical aid, in the midst of a whole mix of conflicting considerations. Yes, you pick on the edges and finally take back from the plate what you gave people! Everyone knows that the microbes are unaware of the administrative situation of the people who transport them! Refusing to treat a patient is a humanly unacceptable behaviour, in addition to being absurd in terms of accounting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u157	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u158	We said the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u159	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] But if you said so, don't hide from it! You're hiding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u160	We need to update your speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u161	If people are not treated at the beginning of the disease, they not only contaminate others, but, when they finally arrive at the hospital, their condition has worsened: they cost 50% more. It is better to save money elsewhere, for example by recovering money from corporate social fraud, which costs 7 to 9 billion euros to social security. Be also interested in seconded work, which links hundreds of thousands of people to a life of slavery; this detached work that causes thousands of jobs to be lost to those who live here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u162	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u163	This debate will not conclude with any vote or proposal. France deserves better. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] Beware of the sorcerer apprentices who threaten to break the matrix that produces the republican homeland of the French by typing on the nail of immigration! I call on the millions of binationals and the children of these long and beautiful stories of lives begun elsewhere, those of the first or the second generation, to express themselves to say that they are tired of being an election cannon! France is our common republican homeland; it is the place of our common future; She is to all those who make her live and love her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u164	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u165	How can we not have a great deal of doubt about the reasons for the break-up of this debate on immigration, without a text or a vote? Already, during the great debate, the President of the Republic had – without result, it must be admitted – agitated this subject under the nose of yellow vests who wanted to talk about tax justice, wages and public service. How can you not assume that, without an answer on these subjects which are the first of the concerns of the French, you are thinking of drawing the martingale of a debate on immigration? This is a temptation all the more dangerous as you engage this debate in the most extreme confusion, mixing migration policy with the right to asylum, but also social and territorial segregations. The confusion also stems from what some members of the Government say they expect from this debate to "arm our country". But who should we arm ourselves against? How can we not understand that it is first of all our compatriots from immigration, some of whom have been the target of such a speech for three, four or five generations, who would be the source of the cultural insecurity that Emmanuel Macron is worried about? You pretend to look at reality in the face, but by posing this debate so badly, you throw on it a veil of fog. On the contrary, it needs clarity. This clarity requires us first of all to recognize how crazy this world is: on the one hand, capital flows freely at the speed of light; On the other hand, there is a separation of human beings, between political refugees, migrants fleeing poverty, victims of disasters and the labour force to be exploited. So, what are we talking about – or rather, who? If it is about refugees, let us not forget that it is first of all the South that bears the misfortunes of the South by welcoming 90% of the refugees, and that France does not shine by its hospitality since it occupies only the fourteenth place of the countries of the European Union over the last five years. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] See, for example, the scandalous situation at the Chapel Gate, where I live and where my constituency is. The state leaves it to the sole responsibility of NGOs and voluntary citizens responsible for the fate of three thousand human beings, stored – there is no other word – at the borders of Saint-Denis and Aubervilliers. This is an absolutely inhuman situation for refugees and unbearable for residents. You can decide without delay to host them and to give them a dignified welcome. And if the President's words are sincere, you can even ask the beautiful neighborhoods to contribute. But maybe you want to talk about undocumented people. They live, work and are taxpayers here in France. Measure the weight of the exploitation they are subjected to, the profits that are derived from the most difficult work they carry out; understand that by giving them papers, you will grant rights to all the workers in this country. In this way, you will act effectively against the black economy of labour and housing. So be brave and realistic: pose an act of regularization, as François Mitterrand, Lionel Jospin and even Nicolas Sarkozy did before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u166	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u167	And if, suddenly, you're interested in popular categories, look at them at least in front of you. See their diversity, see how the early rise of France is a mixed France. Hold her hand instead of pointing her finger! Respond to its expectations, repair the breach of republican equality denounced in the parliamentary report on the evaluation of the State's action in the exercise of its sovereign missions in Seine-Saint-Denis, redeploy the public services which are the cornerstone of national cohesion. There are no lost territories of the Republic: first there are territories that the Republic abandons. What a contradiction! It is where the Republic is based the most hopes and expectations on the Republic that it turns its back on its promise. On these and so many other issues, there is a need for fewer frightened speeches and more acts of hope. What we are is a whole, the product of the slow sedimentation of centuries and of the hustle and bustle of cultures. Let us follow, ladies and gentlemen, the plan of Victor Hugo, who celebrated the abolition of slavery by declaring: "We must be a new world", and let us build a new world. Now, through this debate, you open the door – to your defending body, perhaps – to "the sectarian and cruel defense of the One and the Same," according to Edward Glissant's formula. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] Colleagues, we need to reinvigorate the dice of human progress; There is no shortage of construction sites. And, since you claim to speak to the popular classes, Communist deputies have a lot of ideas to submit to you: we could start by re-establishing the tax on wealth, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u168	I don't see the connection!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u169	Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u170	The debate we are opening today will only be fully meaningful if it paves the way for a recasting of migration policy and integration policy in France and Europe. This debate is not only unprecedented in its form, which will become a ritual. It is not only the fulfilment of the promise made by the President of the Republic at the end of the great national debate. Above all, it is not a debate to say everything and to decide nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u171	I'm afraid that's the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u172	It is a debate to rethink everything; with lucidity, with boldness, with courage. The French today demand a radical change in software. We do not have the right to disappoint them, otherwise our democracy runs the risk of a disintegration on which extremists have been relying for ages to make their terrible projects flourish. The lucidity, first of all, leads us to admit that today we are in a sort of impasse that is only losing. Our unconditional principles, which must remain so, of respect for human dignity are being undermined, and the effectiveness of our regulatory policy is legitimately put on the brink. Humanity and firmness are words that go very well together, but the failures of our policies for several decades have undermined their meaning. "Humanity", declared Emmanuel Macron in October 2016 in Montpellier, "it is not to grant titles to the dropper and leave all the other asylum seekers in the territory in a situation of lawlessness. » As the markers of this inefficiencies have already been mentioned today, I will not expand on them: the ineffectiveness of European regulation, in the first place, whose topicality regularly offers tragic illustrations; inefficiency of French schemes also, which is reflected in this growing gap between admissions to France and Europe; right to asylum diverted from its object due to different modes and processing times; accommodation conditions too often unworthy; difficulty in curbing illegal immigration; Unstabilized fate of unaccompanied minors; too slow, too unequal and imperfect integration of women and men allowed to remain in our territory; and, finally, the distrust of our fellow citizens in their own ability to remain faithful to the tradition of welcoming which our country has prided itself in the past. The law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration, adopted last year, was necessary. Ministers were right to stress the progress that it has made and that I want to welcome here,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u173	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u174	...e.g. in terms of accommodation or integration. However, everyone feels that this progress is too slow and that there are too many obstacles. All experts predict this: the challenges we face are constantly changing, under the fourfold influence of political, demographic, economic and climate migration. The way we respond to these challenges is now out of step with these challenges, their complexity and their intertwining. From there comes the urgent need to be bold. That is the second point I would like to address. It is time for us to change our scale to understand the migration issue in all its complexity. It is for the Republic Group that this debate is at stake and, even more so, the work we want to do with your government, Prime Minister. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I have no reason to deny the different sensitivities that go through our political family, having always considered that it was, in this area as in many others, its strength and its wealth. But here I can testify that it will find itself unanimously in a project of transformation embracing all aspects of the migration issue, including the most complex and disturbing, as long as this project has two objectives, to which I know you have acquired: first, scrupulous respect for the values that are ours; Secondly, the possibility which will be given to us to escape, finally, the postures, instrumentalisations and manoeuvres of avoidance that have fossilized the public debate, to the detriment of the efficiency and fate reserved for women and men who enter our territory and, for some of them, are called to remain there. In this respect, the devices are essential, and no one can challenge them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u175	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u176	But the method is the same. The overall strategy we call for goes hand in hand with a very cross-cutting approach, including all the major areas of public action: regulation and relations with countries of departure and return, of course, but also the economy, health, work, housing or education. This debate is part of a rather new interdepartmental approach, which we fully agree with. The Members of the Republic on the move who will speak after me will testify to this diversity of thematic approach. But our group hopes that we will go much further and that the administrative or even governmental organisation will evolve in order to perpetuate this global method and visibly embody the coherence of our policies. In the same way, we will not recast anything solid unless we have restored the confidence, which has now begun, between associations ready to take on their responsibilities, citizens' initiatives and the public authorities. I now turn to my third and final point: the courage, which consists, first and foremost, of telling the French the truth. Self-awaiting to end years of helplessness, our fellow citizens are calling for strong and spectacular measures. However, symbolism is not always synonymous with efficiency. Conversely, the recasting policies that we want to undertake will take time to make their impact felt. The courage is then to recognise the European level as the one where the right solutions are located. The recent European elections have made it possible to put on the table proposals in support of the ambitious action undertaken by the President of the Republic with our partners since the European Council in June 2018. Lucides on the political conditions, which are not all in place to move these proposals forward as quickly as we wish, we must make every effort to improve the harmonisation of asylum policies in Europe, for greater solidarity between the Member States in the distribution and reception of refugees and for the dismantling of the Dublin agreements, which have been rendered ineffective by the imbalance in practice. Courage is still the only limit in the critical examination of existing arrangements, our tradition of welcoming and respecting the dignity of all women and men who must undergo or benefit from them. Yes, asylum is a right, but we must ensure that we identify and, if necessary, end the flaws of our system and abuses. Accepting dignity may mean accepting less, but integrating better, both in metropolis and overseas. Let us also give ourselves the means to rethink our policy on economic immigration. Let us finally ask ourselves the question of official development assistance. Aid cannot be reduced to one figure, and one figure does not make a policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that this debate will give our migration and integration policy the new impetus that our fellow citizens expect. We are willing to abandon the standards of hysteria and stigma to supporters of national division, obsessed with cultural insecurity, and fantasies. To talk of distrust, let us impose a programme of reason and cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u177	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, the Republic Group wants to get to work with you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u179	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u180	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Immigration or invasion? This was the question asked by former President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing on the front page of Figaro Magazine in 1991. Our generation has a duty to respond clearly and calmly to this question which our predecessors, alas, have not been able to address consistently. Our generation, which has never exercised power, has a duty to break with decades of hesitation, insufficiency, renunciation and blindness. Is it too late? I do not believe this, but there is an urgent need, because we know that the 21st century exposes France to migratory chaos. Geography and demography tell us. There are now 510 million Europeans for 1.2 billion Africans. In 35 years, the report will be 450 million Europeans for 2.5 billion Africans, two thirds of whom will be under 30 years old. In order for France to remain France, we must regain control. It is not for the courts, supranational organizations, bureaucracy or immigration candidates themselves to decide France's policy. It's up to the French to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u181	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u182	Is that possible? Yes, but, Prime Minister, it will not be enough to utter magic words or to pass an umpteenth law stacking technocratic micro-measures. A major legal and political break is now necessary to get out of the carcan whose governments, until then, have been the voluntary prisoners. There must no longer be a right of foreigners to immigrate to France, but a right of the State to decide who France wishes to receive or refuse in the territory of the nation. That is why I propose that an immigration charter, backed by the Constitution, be submitted to the French people by referendum,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u183	It smells like his election campaign for the LR presidency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u184	... to give the Government, under the control of the National Assembly, new powers: the power to decide freely, without any criterion other than that of the national interest, to grant or withdraw a residence permit; the power to limit immigration by decree, thus regulating the number of foreigners admitted to stay in our country; the power to suspend family reunification; the power to condition access to family allowances and social housing to ten years of legal work in France; the power to permanently expel foreign offenders and illegals, without the possibility of appeal. This new constitutional framework will also allow asylum for genuine political refugees, who are threatened freedom fighters in their countries. The decision to grant asylum must therefore be the sovereign responsibility of the Government. Applications for asylum from democratic countries must be refused in principle, unless the Prime Minister, on an exceptional basis, decides otherwise. To regain control is also to define and assume a new nationality code, which gives France the right to decide who, among foreign nationals, it chooses to recognize as French. The law of the soil, which emerged from a law of 1889, is no longer adapted to our time: the birth of a foreigner in France must not necessarily lead to his becoming French. I therefore propose the abolition of the right to land. The new French nationality code will provide that it can either be transmitted by blood law – one is born and one is French when one of the parents is French –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u185	Marion wrote the speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u186	... or acquire by a decree of naturalization when the Government sovereignly decides to grant French nationality to a foreign national who so requests and who is assimilated to the national community, the assimilation being assessed by the mastery of the French language, the respect of our laws, the adherence to our civilization and the contribution to the influence of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u187	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u188	This deeply republican reaffirmation implies the renegotiation, or, in case of impossibility, the denunciation, of certain stipulations of international law that prevent us, today, from stopping mass immigration. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I have already said in this rostrum the serious difficulties posed by the European Convention on Human Rights. I would also like to mention the Franco-Algérien agreement of 1968. I also have in mind the Marrakesh Pact. Finally, I would add that we will not have to ban ourselves from renegotiating or suspending the application of certain directives of the European Union which would conflict with the new constitutional charter on immigration. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I challenge President Emmanuel Macron: if you want to stop the migratory chaos, have the audacity to follow the path that we, the Republicans, propose. I am convinced that the French will soon want to regain control, so that the nation will live and the Republic will live.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u189	Mrs Marielle de Sarnez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] For the first time, a debate on migration policy is being held, in the presence of the Prime Minister and several members of the Government: this initiative deserves to be welcomed. This is the consideration of an obvious fact: the answer to the great question of migration can no longer be partial, it must be global; It can no longer depend on a single ministerial department, but on a comprehensive, defined, explicit and federative action. The question of migration is one of the dimensions of the century. The number of migrants has increased by 40 per cent in 15 years, the number of refugees has more than doubled in less than 10 years. This is a global development, and Europe is far from being the most affected: migration is usually to countries closest to areas of conflict, disaster or poverty. This development is also sustainable: none of its causes – wars, political crises, demographic pressure, poverty, inequality, climate change – will disappear in the short term. So we are facing one of the greatest responsibilities a generation has to assume. It is fair to say that people have the feeling – if not the certainty – that there is no policy defined and led by nations and large groups on the issue of migration. When the public power is powerless, then the people turn against the unarmed leaders, at the same time targeting the migrants in a rejection that touches the skin colour, the origin, the religion. It is enough to state these facts to understand how much we need a comprehensive vision to draw up a public policy that takes into account the interests of all: first, those of the countries of origin, sometimes ambivalent, who are disarmed in the face of the flight of the youngest, often the most educated, but also benefit from a considerable source of income, through transfers – $500 billion a year at the global level; Then, those of the countries of transit, which serve as a framework for all trafficking, mafia drifts, inhuman treatment, violence, and sometimes terrorism; Finally, those of the host societies, for which the question of the ability to integrate new arrivals in good conditions is legitimate, is felt to be pressing the social and cultural question. My conviction is that it is possible to define a migration policy, and to share it with both the French and our partners. I want to state what, in my view, the principles of such a policy should be. The first principle is that we must separate the question of economic migration from that of asylum. There is a broad agreement, within the nation and among its elected representatives, to preserve and sanctify the right to asylum, whose exercise is threatened. As asylum is the only route open today, migrants are engulfed in it, regardless of the reality of their situation. This explains high refusal rates, close to 70%, and confusion, in the minds of our compatriots, between economic migrants and refugees. In the absence of common rules within the European Union, a very large number of asylum applications registered in France are actually rejected by our neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u191	Yes, she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u192	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The conclusion is clear: there is an urgent need to refocus our asylum policy within a harmonised European framework. I call for a mutual recognition of asylum decisions between European countries and between full-fledged European democracies. This will avoid the re-examination of cases already dealt with by a European partner. I plead for convergence of our recognition rates: two in three Afghan asylum seekers are granted status in France, less than one in two in Germany, one in three in Sweden. There is no justification for states of law, democracies applying the same international and European texts, to achieve such divergent results.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u193	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u194	In the same way, we need to bring our procedures and practices together in terms of reception, assistance, accommodation, access to work and response time. For reasons of efficiency – of course – but above all for human reasons, these deadlines must be reduced. Today we are still in France at more than twelve months: it is far too long. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Finally, there is the return of those who are rejected. The situation is not satisfactory for our country. We need a more effective return policy, which is closer to the procedures practised by many European countries. We Europeans must stand in solidarity with the countries of destination and those on the front line for the first reception: no European country should be left alone in the face of migration crises, as has been the case for Italy and Greece.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u195	Well done, Marielle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u196	The European Union's failure to manage the migration crisis had a very heavy political price. Whatever the difficulties, we must therefore build a genuine common asylum policy in Europe, and do so quickly. The second principle stems from this: we must deal with the issue of economic migration in the open. Currently, economic migrants most often enter our land illegally, or remain there after the expiry of a visa, survive in an irregular situation and are finally regularized. This mode of operation perpetuates the illegal settlement of migrants on French soil. Those in an irregular situation will obviously not go back and forth voluntarily with their country of origin: the general hypocrisy in this matter does not help anyone and has paralyzed reflection for too long. [[Ms. Nadia Essayan and Mr. Boris Vallaud applaud]] It is time to draw another vision and finally to discuss the opening of legal avenues for labour migration. Our legal framework in this area is one of the weakest in Europe and it does not work: it is perfectly illustrated by the famous list of professions in tension, never revised since 2008.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u197	She's absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u198	We can, with the opening of a legal way of access that is coordinated with the social partners and controlled by Parliament, propose to these economic migrants a future that does not involve exodus, but, on the contrary, favours positive round-trips, with visas allowing multiple entries and exits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u199	All right! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u200	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] It is a total change of model, which reflects the situation of many African countries, which now offer real opportunities for resettlement after a few years of study or work in Europe. This new system will work if we take decisive action to facilitate the recognition of foreign diplomas, guarantee the portability of social rights, validate the achievements and adapt the training, and if we design a policy of integration that works. Indeed, while it is fair to say that everyone's participation in the society that welcomes them requires everyone to respect our fundamental values, it is also fair to say that French public integration policy does not work. It is indeed all the integration paths – language, housing, work – that need to be reconsidered. Here too, there is an emergency. Finally, the third principle is that we must establish a new partnership with the countries of the South – particularly with Africa – with a single obsession: to restore future prospects and hope for African youth. Inequalities between poor and rich countries must be addressed in a new form. It is no longer a question of assistance or development aid, but rather of thinking, together with Africans, of a strategy that primarily serves their interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u202	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] We have both led in Europe – but not only – policies that have had negative aspects – I am thinking of the agreements that have enabled many countries, first and foremost European countries, to export massively low-cost products to African countries, which has profoundly destabilized them. African agriculture has been the great forgotten of public policies. I believe, for my part, that food self-sufficiency, which was one of the main initial objectives of European integration, is an essential objective for Africa of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u203	Well done, Marielle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u204	Africa continues to suffer the plundering of its natural resources by major powers, which exploit them and transform them to their sole benefit. As a result, with 30 per cent of the world's natural resources, sub-Saharan Africa produces only 3 per cent of the world's economic wealth. The world and its institutions can no longer accept this continent as looted. These resources belong to Africans; It is up to them to control and transform their raw materials in order to generate added value, employment and give hope to future generations. It is a policy of rupture that must now be thought of and implemented, listening to African youth and their rightful aspirations for democracy. Colleagues, the issue of migration touches on what is most essential: it affects the fight against inequalities, and therefore the balance of the world; It affects the cohesion and unity of our societies; Finally, it affects the ability of peoples to live together on the same planet tomorrow. It is our duty and responsibility to respond. (Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – Mr Claude Goasguen also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u205	It's something other than Mr. Larrivé's nauseous logorhoea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u206	Mr. Millienne, please... Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u207	You have therefore decided to place on the agenda of our Assembly a declaration on the migration policy of France and Europe. Without a vote at the end of this discussion and without any concrete decision-making, we can legitimately question the purpose of this initiative, which departs us from the priorities expressed by our fellow citizens – the future of pensions or purchasing power. Worse still for the majority, this declaration highlights the limits of the law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration: debated last year and already overturned, it simply weakened reception a little more, without responding to problems encountered on the ground. The migration issue deserves serious and dignified discussion: seriously, because our statements involving opinion cannot be based on exaggeration, prejudice or obsession; With dignity, for it is the least that our Republic can do, with regard to women and men who wish first and foremost to build a better future than the one which is cruelly promised to them in their country of origin, in the midst of war or serious crises. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot govern the French by prejudice, if we do not want to end up governed by prejudice. France is far from being the country of Europe that receives the most asylum applications. When compared to our population, they are only the eleventh largest country in demand. With a net migration of 7% of the equivalent of births in France, the time has certainly not come for a large replacement; it's wrong to talk about an air call; It is degrading to speak of attractiveness, while the rights open to migrants in France, even in an irregular situation, are roughly equivalent to what they are in our neighbours. I would like to recall the reality described by the humanitarian associations involved in daily life, which we have received. In unison, they denounce facts sufficiently serious to remind our consciences of what is going on in practice: numerous systematic violations of rights; inadequate care for unaccompanied minors, in particular for the proper treatment of them – at this stage it is worth recalling the ineptitude of the alleged attractiveness of France, since only 10% of unaccompanied minors know that they can be treated, even though 36% of them require urgent care. Like the terrible testimonies of precarious situations, we cannot conceive that our health care system, one of the best in the world, can be closed to the most vulnerable people living in our territory. In these circumstances, we flout our host land values and the logic of public health, allowing doubt to be cast on a form of medical tourism, while you refuse to give a flag to a rescue boat in the Mediterranean and criminalise the action of NGOs and volunteers who engage with sincerity and humanity. The reality today is that the right of residence is not being properly applied – knowingly, through the amplification of an unworthy policy of deterrence, of which NGOs are witnesses, or because the law is not adapted, like the Dublin system, which should be thoroughly recast. The right of asylum must be guaranteed to all those who are entitled to it, in accordance with our historical tradition and our international commitments. Access to procedures must be guaranteed or even strengthened. New supplementary residence rights must be opened, based on specific grounds for humanitarian, climate and economic protection. As for minors, their care must be unconditionally provided by the State and by ensuring solidarity between departments. The law of aliens must be applicable and applied. It is only under these conditions that the debate will regain the serenity and dignity it commands. Finally, I would like to recall our proposals to encourage our country to reflect on climate migration in European and international forums, leading to a convention separate from the Geneva Convention on Refugees. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Finally, humanity is tantamount to giving every refugee a right in the future. The truth is that our rules can adapt to allow us to remain faithful to who we are and what we represent in the world. All we have left is the will – unless it is political calculation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u208	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u209	While we hardly dared to speak of our values and to claim them, or to sing our national anthem, I committed myself very young in politics and tried, throughout my journey, to remain faithful to the motto of our Republic: freedom, equality, fraternity. Little son of an Italian immigrant on my mother's side, I often heard the stories of a time when migrants were not welcome. At the beginning of the last century, they were victims of assaults and insults, were hard-working, did not speak French, and were grouped into communities. A prefect of the Northern Department had sent a note to the minister of the interior to explain to him that they were perfectly incomparable. A few years later, in the first global conflict, these men who were so difficult to integrate were mobilized to go to fight and get killed on behalf of our country. "While his family situation could keep him in the back, he asked to go back to the fire and showed the most complete disregard for the danger": this is the text of the quote on my grandfather's military notebook, an Italian migrant incomparable. Lorrain, I have known similar stories about the Portuguese, about the Spanish, and then about the Yugoslavs who came to work in our iron and coal mines. Together with the Maghrebs, and Africans in general, this unhealthy logic of non-integration has been maintained by reproducing the same clichés and adding – to root the mistrust – the differences of religion and by making disturbing amalgams between radical fundamentalism and migration. We have allowed racism to flourish and we have been gangregnated by the refusal of the foreigner. Big mouths, short ideas: rather than incarnating our republican heritage, our culture and our values so respected around the world, rather than betting on the richness of our differences, making co-development a chance and understanding the opportunities of an inevitably open world, we have allowed the farce of the theory of invasion to flourish! Today, it is time to finally re-establish truths avoided by sterile debates: if we report the number of asylum applications to the number of inhabitants, France ranks eleventh in Europe. And we strive to look at Africa, the world's first French-speaking continent with extraordinary wealth, with increasing distrust, without becoming aware of the presence of 400 million people who do not eat to their hunger, less than 15 kilometres from the Strait of Gibraltar! What stupidity! Let's stop hiding behind our little finger. Let's stop the hypocrisy. Three hundred thousand people living in our territory do not have papers and a large part of them will never be expelled – let's not look at it: everyone knows it! Despite this, the Government has considered reducing the amount of medical assistance provided to these persons. We have been told that you want to restrict access to care for asylum seekers by introducing a three-month waiting period before the rights are granted. What health policy worthy of this name would be to knowingly allow the health of these people to deteriorate before taking care of them, at aggravated stages, in emergency services? Where has the homeland of human rights gone, if we agree to let people die on our sidewalks, on the pretext that they are foreigners? It would be against the background of the principle of health prevention that you have just advocated, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health. We condemn this inhuman and unrealistic measure, which, as we all know, has no rationality in terms of public health. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups]] My proposals are therefore clear. Finally, let us regularise all those who will never be expelled: this will mechanically reduce the cost of the AME. Let us return to the universality of our health system. Let us secure the Mediterranean, by finally financing relief and distributing the migrants. While we should welcome progress, I regret that we are washing our hands by subcontracting the hunt for migrants to countries such as Libya, whose capacity is being strengthened when they are engaged in documented abuses. Strengthen the role of cities and territories in welcoming migrants. Let us go back to the iniquitous Dublin agreements. Strengthening development aid – it was one of your commitments. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, I would like to sincerely thank all those who spontaneously help others. I don't know if we'll ever invent for them what will look like a Medal of the Righteous, but I want to tell them how proud I am of what they're doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u210	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u211	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups]] In conclusion, I will quote a famous migrant, Jorge Mario Bergoglio: "The answer to the challenge posed by contemporary migration can be summed up in four verbs: welcoming, protecting, promoting and integrating. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u212	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u213	We are gathered here today without a preparatory document, without text and without a vote to speak about immigration. A year ago, we spent a hundred hours examining the asylum and immigration law, an iniquitous law of forty-one articles, barely coming into force. This debate on immigration was announced after the great national debate, which, let us recall, did not put this issue at the top of the demands – the solidarity tax on wealth was in pole position, but you decided that the debate did not have to be. Launched by the President of the Republic at the beginning of the year, he resorts to a semantics that one would have hoped to be of another time, and is very little documented – there is thus a question of "getting out of denial", of "stop laxism" and of "mass immigration". The president of your movement has followed suit, worried about an air call caused by the reimbursement of breast prostheses. First, these prostheses are not supported by the AME; Secondly, you have chosen to start the debate on the craziest slope: when they are people who flee conflict and hunger and who are victims of trafficking, you suspect that they are engaged in aesthetic tourism! So all of a sudden, we should talk about immigration! Yet it is the silence that you chose when the Aquarius demanded, with horn and shout, to be able to accomodate. And if we are talking about immigration, it is not to respond to the plight of migrants at sea or in Libya, a country mandated by Europe – we have just discovered a boat stranded off Lampedusa, where thirteen women have died, including some pregnant women, and eight children reported missing. Nor is it this afternoon to reallocate to the reception the billions spent on Frontex, nor to deal with the situation of those who work, have been schooling their children for years and will not return to their country of origin because their lives are here. No: in fact, you are using Parliament to participate in the launch of phase 2 of the quinquennium, thinking that speaking of quotas, you will ensure the re-election of your movement. With this strategy, the most honest – and I'm sure there are – think of curbing the far right vote. But by presenting this subject as a growing problem, you legitimize their vision of the world. You said bulwarks, but you pass the dishes. For you, I believe, the issue of immigration is not a diversion. The discourse that is based on the idea of an excessive number of immigrants always allows an alternative narrative to the consequences of your political choices. Worse still, the President of the Republic chose to insult the popular classes by claiming that they had a monopoly on racism and xenophobia. It is to forget that part of the popular classes are descended from immigrants and that the cohabitation between the so-called "majority" population and the population of immigrant origin is built more and better in the popular circles. You want today – even if, when you hear your speeches, you don't always know exactly what you want – to reform the AME. It should be remembered that it is equivalent to 0.5% of the expenditure of health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u214	It's not health insurance: it's a state budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u215	If this budget is on the rise in recent years, it is migration policy that must be blamed. Furthermore, any challenge to access to asylum-seekers' care would be very dangerous. Put an end, this afternoon and beyond, to the famous myth of the air call. Tell the French that the net migration is stable, that the large phases of regularisation have not given rise to a call for air and that the various studies carried out, such as the one published in 2018 by the CNRS, demonstrate how migrants contribute to the economic wealth of the host country. They do not threaten employment or social security systems in the countries in which they settle, as they are also producers, consumers, taxpayers, contributors and creators. It is neoliberal policies that put peoples in competition and poverty. We need to get out of the fear of sub-Saharan migration. All demographers dismantle the theory of submersion. We cannot forget our share of responsibility in the Afghan tragedy, the Libyan chaos and the climate crisis. You will certainly tell us about Albania, but I would remind you that it is a country with 3 million inhabitants! In 2018, France achieved its third best weapons sales performance in 20 years. We cannot, on the one hand, denounce the violence and instability of certain regions in crisis and, at the same time, feed their source – with one hand, sell weapons; on the other hand, move official development assistance towards strengthening borders. The diagnosis of associations regarding respect for the rights and freedoms of migrants indicates a lack or even absence of any health and social facilities to protect the needs, as well as practices of refoulement to the borders. A year ago, you promised the end of the detention of children: in 2018, they were 208; This year, there are 193 of them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] The progress that you call yourself cannot be reduced to an empty speech that is held by the people between two towers to block the National Rally. In our country, progressism has a history: it consists in accepting that individual rights and freedoms exist, unattackable and incompressible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u216	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u217	The debate we have today on migration policies is crucial – for the future of our country, for the future of our continent, for meeting a challenge that, as has been said, is largely before us and for responding to the generous aspirations of the French – but also to their fears. That is why this debate cannot be that of postures or impostures. Our first responsibility is to get out of the confrontation of two camps that brandish only symbols, and never solutions: on the one hand, the standard of absolute dignity; on the other, the flag of firmness and intransigence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the SOC benches]] I know how sometimes, on the left of this House, we can drape ourselves in the standard of dignity and criticize the very fact of provoking this debate – we have had some examples this afternoon. But the ideas are beautiful only if we really fight for them, and you fought badly for them. [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] You're talking about dignity and humanity, but where are they when, for years, you haven't given enough money to build housing and you've allowed camps to develop in our streets? Where are humanity and dignity, when you have allowed a system to develop where it sometimes takes years to tell an asylum-seeker if he is entitled to asylum in our country? Where is dignity, where is humanity, when you have not carried in Europe, strong enough, the voice of France to say that the Dublin system was breathless and that European solidarity did not work? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The same is true of the postures of intransigence and firmness: always the same discourse on the re-enactment! Do I have to remind you of the rate of actual deportations to the borders when you were in power? Always the same speeches, but always the same failures. So, when I conduct this debate, I say it clearly: this majority can look the French in the face. For two years, without falling into the trench war, it has acted: we have increased the budget for asylum, immigration and integration by 50%. We have opened more places of accommodation during the first two years of this quinquennium than during the entire duration of the previous one. We have dismantled a record number of illegal immigration channels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u218	You didn't really have a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u219	We have devoted more resources than ever to integration by doubling, for example – this has been recalled – the number of hours of French courses. We have begun to continue further, being firmer on the issue of consular passes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u220	By putting the kids in jail!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u221	But to conduct this debate is also to tell the truth, the whole truth. And the truth is, that's not enough yet. The truth, and our fellow citizens see it, is that there are still men, women and even children on the street...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u222	Put them in jail, we won't see them anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u223	...it's that our hosting device isn't working well enough yet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u224	All you have to do is change the ELAN law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u225	The truth is that an asylum-seeker has to wait too long to get an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u226	Start by apologizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u227	The truth is that the channels benefit from the disparities in the European system in which you are twice as likely to obtain asylum in France as in Germany if you are an Afghan citizen. The truth is that our asylum system is not working well, because it is misdirected and carries to itself the weight of the lack of a comprehensive strategy on all types of immigration: economic, humanitarian and tomorrow, even more, climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u228	We didn't even meet the 2015 commitment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u229	[[Claims on several benches of the LR and SOC groups]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] And if we do not confront these realities, if we, the progressives, the humanists, lock ourselves in the postures, we will let others implement their imposture. I remember that during the campaign of the European elections, the leader of the National Rally replied that she would refuse to treat a sick migrant child free of charge if the latter could not afford to pay. Whether you call yourself Bardella, Le Pen, Salvini or Orbán, know that we will do everything we can to ensure that you never have the responsibility for migration policies in our country. And I'm worried about sometimes seeing a part of the right – we had another example this afternoon – locked up in a speed race with the craziest proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u230	That's not true, stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u231	So at the National Rally and those who run behind him, I say: your project is not one. Your project is just a rejection. You're just impostors. Facing the realities is, on the contrary, bringing the progressives together to define a strategy for migration policy. And that is what this majority is trying to do, against the expectations of all those who imagined that we would be divided. Because we are in power, because we know the importance of the stakes, we have been able to gather around the strategic priorities very well set by President Le Gendre: to guarantee the right to asylum, to examine without concession all our arrangements, to have a more transversal approach to migration policies, to defend a reshaping of asylum in Europe, to rethink our approach to economic immigration and to analyse our development policies strategically. And we'll have to do it without totem or taboo. In this regard, I would like to stress the issue of economic immigration, because it is at the core of the debate that we have had for years on the issue of migration policies, which has reduced it to the problem of asylum. It's obviously too narrow a view. We have locked ourselves in postures, like the progressives who, precisely because they do not seriously deal with the issue of asylum, are afraid of being swept away by extremists and lose the courage to tell truths about economic immigration. What are these truths? That economic immigration accounts for a very small proportion, very few of those entering France: barely more than 10%; that economists all tell us that economic immigration does not lead to unemployment in our country, and that, on the contrary, it creates growth; that economic immigration does not draw down the wages of the French; We know very well that there are hundreds of thousands of unfilled jobs and that they are a hindrance to our growth and development. Of course, it is not a question of welcoming hundreds of thousands of people, of being the naïve of globalisation, but, when we know that the list of professions in tension – as you mentioned earlier – has not been updated since 2008 and that only 15% of the professions at that time are still in tension today, I believe that we have a duty to rethink our strategy on economic immigration. We are doing this by using a method, which Marielle de Sarnez put forward earlier, in consultation with the social partners and representatives of local and regional authorities. Because we must also have a territorial approach on this issue to better define our needs, including by asking the question of quotas for economic immigration – I am in favour of it. You see, our ambition is great.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u232	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u233	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM group]] Larger than reducing debates made of postures or, worse, impostures. But be sure, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen: because we will be consistent with the strategic framework that we are defining today, because we will co-build the concrete measures that will result from this debate, you can count on the majority and the Republic on its way to stand by you in order to meet this challenge. You can count on us, the French can count on us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u234	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u235	From this debate, we could expect the worst – an umpteenth artifice of communication – like the best – the salutary starting point for a radical change in immigration policy, which breaks with the spirit of the Marrakech Pact that you have dangerously approved. Your speech, Prime Minister, gave us the answer on-line. This debate will be sterile and useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u236	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u237	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Today, however, we are at the foot of the wall, all the lights are red. Legal immigration is breaking records: 256000 residence permits in 2018, twice as many as 20 years ago. Illegal immigration peaks: there are 400,000 to 500,000 illegal aliens in our country. The asylum application is out of control: there were 123,000 asylum seekers last year, there will probably be more than 130,000 this year. Our country is unable to keep foreigners away: according to the Court of Auditors, 95 per cent of those denied the right to asylum remain in our territory. There are barely 7,000 forced evictions to third countries. Offence is over-represented among foreigners: 4000 of them are on the register of radicalised persons and 16,000 are on the list of prisoners. Assimilation and integration are failing: 43% of working-age immigrants are unemployed. Communautarianism is gaining ground every day and camps are set up in the heart of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u238	Not in the heart of Paris, but in the popular suburbs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u239	We are therefore well in the catastrophic situation described by Gérard Collomb the day he left Place Beauvau: "Today we live side by side, I fear that tomorrow we live face to face. He added that we had very little time to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u240	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u241	Yeah, time's running out. Hesitating more is a betrayal of the future of our nation, all the more so because of demographic, geopolitical and environmental changes, migratory pressure on Europe's borders is expected to continue to grow over the next few years. This has been said: the African population is expected to double by 2050. Until then, however, the Government had adopted purple indifferences on the subject, since President Macron had in turn considered that there was no migration crisis and that immigration was an opportunity. His speech has just changed, it's happy, but the acts are still not there. This debate will be of no use if no new, concrete, effective, pragmatic measures are proposed at the end of the debate. Yet solutions exist to enable our country to regain its sovereignty, its capacity to guarantee social cohesion and its security. I propose – we propose – a method, a timetable and actions. The method is a referendum to get out of the denial and immobilism of political correctness. It is up to the French people, and to them alone, to decide. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] As regards the timetable, this referendum must be launched before the end of the year with measures applicable from 1 January 2020. The actions consist of twelve strong measures: to have the courage of expulsions; to return to the offence of illegal residence; make administrative detention the rule; Reshaping the right to asylum by refusing to consider applications from safe countries and requiring applications to be filed in hotspots near conflict zones; hardening the right of nationality, because no one should become French by chance; Immediately expel foreign offenders, criminals and all those who pose a threat to France; Re-establish controls at internal borders;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u242	That's what's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u243	... negotiate with third countries and make official development assistance conditional on the issuance of consular passes; prevent foreigners from constituting an unbearable burden for public finances by reducing the attractiveness of our social model – the AME must be reformed by guaranteeing only access to urgent and vital care;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u244	This is stupid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u245	...to assimilate by promoting the values of the Republic and republican secularism...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u246	Mass in Saint-Sulpice?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u247	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] ... while, as a study by the FIFG for the Jean-Jaurès Foundation has just revealed, 46% of Muslim foreigners consider the sharia to be superior to the laws of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u248	It's barely caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u249	...which should mobilize us all. There are moments in history when what is being played must go beyond prejudices and dogmas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u250	And what you just said was not prejudice?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u251	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Strong in words, the Government has so far been weak in its actions to curb mass immigration. Today we solemnly ask you that this debate paves the way for a concrete and comprehensive reform of our migration policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u252	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u253	Is that a duettist number?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u254	We are gathered in this Chamber to talk about immigration – I was going to say: again about immigration. Immigration laws have been numerous for 30 years, not to be operational, but to save time, to make the opinion believe that we were acting. These debates were false debates, they resulted only in remarks of a rostrum, tartarine postures, cosmetic laws. Today, this session takes place because public opinion, in the face of the absolute scandal of immigration, demanded it. Those who have no choice to flee from immigration live in distress and we carry their cry of suffering. They are aware that anarchic immigration is a threat to their daily lives, their way of life and sometimes even their lives. This parliamentary debate – and beyond, in society – the nationals imposed it by the vigour of their love for the homeland and by the force of the ballot box. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] But what a waste of time, as our country is experiencing a real submersion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u255	Gérard Collomb, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u256	Yes, a "submersion", I dare the term, because it describes the reality of this uninterrupted flow that flows over our cities, our towns and now, because of your irresponsible policy of rural settlement of migrants, to the smallest village. [[Exclaims on several benches]] The issue of immigration has remained taboo for a long time. What an absurdity! As if it was illegitimate, at a time when the world was experiencing huge population displacements, to take an interest in these demographic flows. What a betrayal too, because the primary role and even the honour of politicians is to protect their people. This is not what our leaders have done: not only have they let it happen, but they have organized denial and repressed dissenting voices. Above all, without ever referring to the people, they organized the channels of legal immigration and tolerated illegal immigration. From 1976 to the present, all the families of the French political class, except ours, bear an overwhelming responsibility for the present situation. Family reunification, labour migration transformed into settlement immigration, massive regularisations, relaxation of the criteria for residence permits, opening of borders with Schengen, incitement to the misuse of the right of asylum – the list is long and not exhaustive. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and FI groups]] Behind these concealments and abandonments, behind these mystifications and betrayals, there is certainly the incompetence of our leaders, French and European, often their cowardice too, but above all the globalist ideology that guides them imperturbably. They reduce man to his economic dimension of producer and consumer, an interchangeable man, without identity or reference, a man who is only a working part of the great world trade. History will remember that at the beginning of the twenty-first century, you, together with your NGOs accomplices to smugglers, have reintroduced a new human trafficking from the shores of the Mediterranean, with its tragedies and uprooting; but also that you have exposed European countries to the increasingly probable prospect of demographic, cultural and even political-religious destabilization. The migratory torrent is sweeping our social systems, blowing up the penal system, undermining the unity of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u257	And you, you finance yourself through Qatar!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u258	That's why no one believes the official statements, the false intentions that all your actions invalidate. We have before us the perverseness of the "at the same time": Mr Macron expresses his concern about immigration and at the same time goes around Europe to threaten financial sanctions for countries that resist the migration wave. How can Mr Macron dare to deplore the number of admissions when, for seven years and two years he has been in charge of power, this number reaches exponential levels when family reunification was extended a few months ago for minor migrants? Today's platonic debate bears witness to this dual language: a debate without a vote, without a decision, as if it were the repetition of a high school play, a theatre of shadows where only lucid speakers have five miserable minutes to express themselves. We have nothing to do with these politicians. At the National Rally, we have a plan of action built and drafted, which is only waiting to be implemented in order to stop this destructive process of mass immigration and its consequence: the no less destructive process of communalism that is fragmenting our country. [["It's mutual! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have no confidence in you, Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u259	Neither do we have any confidence in you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u260	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] ... and much less, if it is possible, in your Minister of the Interior, to solve the dramatic problem of immigration which causes so much suffering to our compatriots. You are, in this assembly, a majority who want this migration madness to continue; You are, French, a majority who want this migratory madness to stop. So, Prime Minister, on this major issue of immigration, rather than a small debate without a vote, have the courage to finally organise a great referendum!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u261	And what would be the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u262	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u263	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u264	"Politics is the art of making what is necessary possible," said President Jacques Chirac. What is needed today, for the women and the politicians we are, is to reconcile the French and the French with immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u265	A very difficult exercise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u266	For this reconciliation to take place, we must put an end to the fears of our fellow citizens and say things as they really are, without demagogy, without minimizing anything, without occulting anything and without any naivety. Combating irregular immigration means making it possible to better accommodate those who really need it, to prevent families who have been granted asylum from being left behind, and to integrate more effectively foreigners who have respected the rules of our Republic and wish to live in our country. Do we know today how many people in an irregular situation live and travel within the national territory? The answer is no. We do not know, because these people all have different profiles, motivations and routes and unfortunately there is no suitable European counting tool today. These may be denials of the right to asylum that have been unlawfully maintained in our territory; persons smuggled into France who have never considered regularizing their situation; or foreigners legally entering France with a visa or residence permit whose validity has expired, who have not returned to their country of origin. The figure of 318106 people – that of the beneficiaries of the AME in 2018 – serves as a benchmark. But you will have understood it, it does not correspond, in fact, to the number of people in an irregular situation living in our territory. This is where the complexity of the fight against irregular immigration lies. How can we understand a phenomenon that we cannot quantify? How can we effectively combat irregular immigration, some of which is not identifiable or localizable? The law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration has secured the obligation for foreigners to leave French territory after the rejection of an asylum application, and has increased control over the persons covered by this procedure. The length of administrative detention was doubled from 45 days to 90 days maximum, allowing the administration to organize the removal by obtaining a consular pass. Since 1 January 2019, nationals of a country considered safe no longer have the right to remain in the national territory during the investigation of their appeal to the CNDA. Since the same date, proceedings have been speeded up, the appeal against CNDA's decisions takes place within 15 days or even 48 hours if the person is under house arrest or detained. In 2018, 30,276 illegal aliens left the national territory, 13% more than in 2017 and 22.5% more than in 2016. In the same year, the number of forced removals increased by 10% compared to 2017 and by 21% compared to 2016. Between 2018 and 2020, an additional 480 places will be provided in administrative detention centres, an increase of 30%. Finally, 303 illegal immigration channels were dismantled in 2017 and 321 in 2018. Should we be satisfied with these encouraging results? Is that enough? The answer is no. Despite our actions, despite the tireless work and often under very difficult conditions of our security and security forces – including the women and men of the border police, whom I wish to assure here with all my gratitude and support – we must now face up to the shortcomings of our system. Every day, crimes related to smuggling and slave trafficking of migrants are to be deplored, many lives are broken and we are increasingly counting on loss of life in the deserts and in the Mediterranean Sea. Our right to asylum is being denied: in 2018, Albania and Georgia were among the top five countries of origin for asylum seekers. However, the rate of asylum protection for Albanian applicants is 9.6% and for Georgian applicants 4.7%. Despite the significant increase in our housing stock, many asylum seekers who will benefit from protection measures and many refugees are not accommodated. Although the rate of removal from administrative detention centres is increasing, it remains low. Since 2017, as permitted by the Schengen Borders Code and as some other European Union countries do, we have maintained the re-establishment of internal border control, which has led to the declaration of 156587 non-admissions between 2017 and 2018. However, this exceptional procedure, in particular to combat irregular immigration, cannot be renewed forever, and there is therefore an urgent need for genuine control at the external borders of the Schengen area. Finally, although European cooperation is being organised thanks to the action of the President of the Republic, we all know that it will be extremely complicated to build a real common European migration policy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If we want to reconcile the French and the French, to perpetuate our right of asylum and to receive all refugees with dignity, we must ask ourselves the following question: in respect of our traditions, our cultures and our values, are we finally ready to act with pragmatism and to launch a genuine plan to combat irregular immigration?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u268	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u269	[[At 19.05 a.m., Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u270	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u271	More than two years after his election, the President of the Republic has still not answered this simple question: does he want more or less immigration to France? He does not respond, nor does his government simply, because they are unable to define an effective migration policy for our country. They do not want it, because imposing the migration debate on society, on the one hand, and doing nothing to reduce immigration to France, on the other, remains the only guarantee for the majority to face the extreme right in the second round of the next election, and therefore to remain in power. This detestable political cynicism has a cost. This one is paid by the citizens of Calais, Paris, Nantes and Mayotte – all those who suffer every day the horrors of your impotence. For lack of political courage, you have succeeded in questioning the sanctity of the political asylum, forged by the centuries of history of France, engraved in the marble of the Constitution, by making the only appearance of your migration insurrection. Forgotten the explosion of the number of illegal immigrants, the drifts of the AME, the family reunification, the hatred of some second- and third-generation immigrants for our country. For you, the migration problem was limited to asylum. In fact, you have made it a law, which has not changed anything since the deadlines for processing applications remain the same. Worse, for three months, you left OFPRA without direction. Even if I refute the thesis of the little tip of the migratory lorgnette, I will come to your field. As early as 2017, I asked you about the misuse of the right of asylum. Last year, 123625 foreigners registered asylum applications in France – an increase of 22% compared to the previous year. 2019 will see a 10% increase in these requests compared to the highest in 2018, while arrivals and requests are decreasing across Europe. Yes, the French asylum system is ill, not because of the explosion of applications, but because of your inability to reform it, you who prefer to suffer rather than act. Two thirds of asylum seekers are consistently denied their application, i.e. France's protection is denied. Of the 90,000 rejected, 90% remain in France, transforming asylum into illegality. The reality is that you have given up sending the rejected asylum seekers back to their country. In 2018, removals were down by 20% compared to 2012, and the obligations to leave French territory, carried out to the tune of 12% of the measures imposed. Worse still, the number of forced evictions decreased by 30% between 2018 and 2019. Your renunciation of expelling the rejected is such that you have cut the 2020 budget for combating irregular immigration by 10%, or EUR 14 million less. As you do not expel, foreigners who have not been protected continue to squat the places of real asylum seekers in State-run centres, pushing asylum seekers under bridges and tents, throwing them into the hands of smugglers and networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u272	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u273	The Republicans today solemnly ask you to act to save the right of asylum that you are endangering by your lack of political courage. The scandal of the migrants who died in the Mediterranean will have to be brought to an end. France must open closed centres, in transit countries or countries of departure, in order to examine asylum applications on the spot, and not to divide the misery according to the rescue operations at sea and the bank accounts of smugglers. It is up to France, and France alone, to decide who can come to its territory and stay there. It is not for criminal networks to choose for the Government, as is currently the case. Today, 15% of asylum seekers come from Albania and Georgia; Since they are not intended to be protected by France, they cause the embolism of our protection system. France must demand the return of visas for nationals of both countries. A list of safe countries must be voted on annually in Parliament, not in camera on the OFPRA Board of Directors. The list now includes only sixteen countries and has not been updated for four years; Maghreb countries, for example, are excluded. Asylum-seekers from safe countries should be automatically placed in an administrative detention centre, since this is the only way to be sure of finding the asylum-seeker once his/her application has been rejected and to return him/her to his/her country. In 2018, 60% of asylum seekers had already been rejected from another application elsewhere in Europe. France is not intended to be the bouncing country of those who have not been protected elsewhere, and since we live in a common European political and free movement area with common rules on human rights, we affirm that France must not consider these super-fetative demands. We refuse to allow the real refugees to pay for the broken pots of your migrating inconsequence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u274	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u275	We also call for an obligation to leave French territory automatically to be imposed on each person who has rejected his application for asylum, since, today, only one out of every two rejected applications is punished with such a measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u276	Not even!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u277	The removals of the rejected must resume, and the pressure on the countries of origin must be increased. Mali, for example, grants only 8 per cent of the consular passes necessary for the return of the illegals, even though our soldiers are fighting on the spot for the freedom of the Malian people. This is intolerable. Wherever France contributes to progress, our official development assistance must be modulated according to cooperation on the return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin. On the other hand, we must ensure that the asylum-seeker's allowance is granted only if the applicant is from a country that is not sure and has never been refused an application elsewhere in Europe. Moreover, such assistance should be used only for the asylum-seeker and not for his family remaining in the country. To that end, I have tabled a bill to prohibit asylum seekers from transferring funds abroad. We made all these proposals 18 months ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u278	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u279	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] But you disdainfully rejected them. It's not too late to catch up with your mistake and stop making the asylum a way into hiding. Act, take back the Republican proposals and save what is most sacred in the freedom of man: asylum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u280	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u281	We are gathered to discuss the migration policy of France and Europe – a healthy and indispensable debate as the issue of migration and its management is at the heart of the national and European political agenda and concerns the lives of all our citizens; a sensitive subject enamelled with amalgams and counter-truths; a subject that should not be reduced to clichés, caricatures, or a binary, Manichean vision. Migration policy must be understood in its entirety and in all its complexity, not only through a secure and repressive prism. Migration raises economic, social and cultural issues. The development of migration is a fact. He's not new. The question is how to manage migration flows. Which societies do we want to build? How to do it together? How can I live together? I will focus on the overseas territories. The latter represent an interesting case in the field of migration. Historically, they are migration lands from Europe, Asia, the Caribbean and the Middle East, whether they are asylum seekers or economic immigrants. The result is, for most of these territories, mixed populations and examples of successful integration with peaceful coexistence of the different communities. However, we are increasingly witnessing exasperation by the populations of some of these territories in the face of migratory pressure. Even if irregular immigration concerns only a few territories, Mayotte, Guyana and, to a lesser extent, Saint-Martin, there is a concern to which we elected are very attentive. How can we not be so when we see the scores of the far right in the overseas territories? In the 2017 presidential election and in the last European elections in 2019, the National Rally took the lead in several overseas territories, including mine, Mayotte. How can we not be outraged by this wave of populists throwing oil on the fire when we need appeasement?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u282	Respect democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u283	What is the reality of the overseas migration situation? The territories concerned are attractive with a significant proportion of the foreign population. This is especially the case in the Atlantic and Indian Ocean territories. More specifically, Mayotte, French Guiana and Saint-Martin are singled out by a much stronger proportion of foreign nationals than in metropolitan France and the other overseas territories; but also through annual admissions to the more numerous stay; Finally, there are more illegal aliens who are removed from the country. The overseas communities of the Pacific and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon are less affected as the foreign population is almost non-existent. With regard to regular immigration, according to the report on foreigners in France, submitted to Parliament in 2018 on the basis of the code of entry and residence of foreigners and the right of asylum – CESEDA – Guyana and Mayotte are the largest foreign population. There are 47463 foreigners in Guyana out of a total population of 281000 and 33957 foreigners in Mayotte out of a total population of 259000. In the West Indies, regular immigration is mainly from the Caribbean basin. In the field of asylum, overseas demand declined significantly in 2018 from 6363 applications in 2017 to 3755 in 2018, a decrease of 41% due to a sharp decrease in applications in Guyana, despite an increase in Mayotte, where applications rose from 643 in 2016 to 1498 in 2017. In the case of irregular immigration, the migratory pressure varies according to the territory. Illegal immigration is particularly prevalent in Mayotte, Guyana and Saint-Martin in terms of their population. In Guyana, it is difficult to obtain figures, but it can be noted that State policy is beginning to bear fruit. Indeed, the number of obligations to leave French territory – OQTF – rose from 11,000 in 2017 to 14300 in 2018, an increase of 31%, with an increase in remote locations. In Saint-Martin, according to the latest figures established prior to Hurricane Irma, there were approximately 6,000 illegal aliens for a population of 35,000 inhabitants over 53 square kilometres. In Reunion, a migration route is likely to open with Sri Lanka, as since March 2018, in four successive waves, 83 Sri Lankan nationals have arrived by sea. In this context, the French authorities have endeavoured to strengthen cooperation with the Sri Lankan authorities. Let me turn to the unique case of Mayotte, a small island of 374 square kilometres where almost half of the inhabitants are of foreign origin. Indeed, in 2018, 48% of the people in Mayotte were foreigners, including a huge part in an irregular situation. The Territory is estimated to have 62,000 illegal aliens out of a total population of 259,000. Incoming illegal flows are estimated at between 24,000 and 28,000 per year. About 20,000 people are returned to the border each year – mainly towards the Comoros – which represents the majority of the re-elections for the overseas territories. France's overseas migration policy meets the same objectives as for Hexagon: guaranteeing the right to asylum, combating irregular immigration, diplomacy and official development assistance. However, there is a differentiated policy because of the particularities of certain territories. Overseas departments and authorities are not part of the Schengen area of free movement. There is a right adapted to the realities of the overseas territories. This is the case with the decree "providing experiments on certain methods of processing asylum applications in Guyana" which aims in particular to reduce the time taken to process such applications. This is also the case in Mayotte with the relaxation of the rules for the acquisition of nationality: there is a five-day period for referral to the judge of freedoms and detention in administrative detention against two in the rest of the national territory. It is for the Government, as part of a proactive policy, to combat irregular immigration to Mayotte. We must adopt a comprehensive approach with a strengthening of the criminal, legal and security chain, and give priority to diplomacy. Most recently, the Minister for Overseas Affairs came to present the plan to strengthen and deepen the fight against illegal immigration – PRALIC – called "Operation Shikandra". I would like to commend the efforts of the Government, which has taken stock of the situation in the country. However, it is necessary to tighten certain criteria of access to stay so that holders of certificates can leave the territory of Mayotte. In other words, this differentiated policy must be pursued in order to return Mayotte to the Mahorais. I also intend to draw your attention to diplomacy and regional cooperation, which I consider to be a priority. Some progress has already been made. The partnership framework document between France and the Union of the Comoros was signed in Paris on 22 July 2019. The migration issue is the cornerstone of this agreement, the first of which focuses on the safety of people and the fight against trafficking in human beings. The agreement also has a development aid component, with a budget of €150 million from France over three years, from 2019 to 2021. Targeted priorities are training and socio-occupational integration of young people, agriculture and health cooperation. Beyond bilateral cooperation between France and the Comores, regional cooperation must also be strengthened. Mayotte, the latest French department, needs better integration into its regional environment. In this regard, Prime Minister, when did Mayotte become part of the Indian Ocean Commission, the IOC? This organisation must soon renew its executive and it is up to France to appoint a new secretary-general. In Guyana, there are two joint committees for cross-border cooperation in police and customs matters. Another point I will stress is the need to develop our territories. In general, overseas, we need engineering, experts. Some sectors have qualified immigration such as the space sector and the mining sector in Guyana. Others could benefit from it, such as health, by promoting medical cooperation, by developing a full-function, trilingual French-English-Spanish medical school in the West Indies, which would enable French medical culture to be brought to light in the Caribbean. I am also thinking of the environment sector, promoting the development of specialized university courses and the arrival of scientists; and higher education, by encouraging the regional reach of our universities and their role as the bridgehead of the strategy of influence of higher education and of French and European research. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the overseas region is composed of land of integration. Of course, we are not fooling ourselves, there are tensions in the face of migratory pressure in certain territories and fragile socio-economic balances to be preserved. The Government is paying particular attention to this, as demonstrated by the civil-military, legal and diplomatic arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u284	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u285	France is facing a new migration challenge and it is not with a succession of speeches that we will face it. It is time to take stock, more than a year after the passage of the law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration, voted here without the majority having taken into account only one of the proposals made by Members of the Republican Group. So far, the Head of State explained to us that there was no migration crisis; It has even expressed its support for the enlargement of the European Union to the Balkan countries and for Romania's entry into the Schengen area as soon as possible. What blindness! [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I am now learning from an article in Figaro that Marseille could become a port of reception for migrants as a result of the Malta agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u286	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u287	How, when we are already so fragile, can you make such announcements – which I hope, ladies and gentlemen, will you deny? With regard to Marseilles, let us take the case of isolated minors. The city is already flooded by the flow of migrant minors. According to the figures agreed at the end of September, we are approaching the heading of the 1100 unaccompanied minor foreigners to be taken over by the department of Bouches-du-Rhône. They account for 25 per cent of minors cared for by the services of the Social Welfare for Children – ESA. For the department alone, the cost rose from €26 million to €37.4 million, or more than 44% increase between 2018 and 2019. The care of isolated minors amounts to between 30000 and 40000 euros per year, not to mention the health and education costs they receive as children. Why abandon departments when it is a regal jurisdiction? Why not control their minority more strictly? What are you waiting for to generalize the minority assessment support system, the AEM file? It's a matter of humanity. It is about the protection of these minors – those taken over by ESA – as well as the fairness of our territories. Secondly, the cost and control of care. In 2018, more than 300,000 people were receiving state medical aid worth €848 million – $1 billion, one of our colleagues said. The number of beneficiaries and its cost have doubled in 15 years. The majority of the population concerned is young: 21 per cent are minors accompanied by an illegal parent, half of the adults are under the age of 40 and are predominantly male. Unfortunately, there is no statistical tool available to determine the distribution of AME beneficiaries by nationality, age and pathology. Perhaps such a tool would put an end to the caricatures you deplore, Mrs. Buzyn. This dogmatic ban prevents us from following populations at best from a migratory and even epidemiological point of view. This opacity must stop. The purpose of this tool would not be to infringe on the privacy of the individuals concerned, but to provide relevant statistical information. French solidarity has the right to transparency. My third point concerns universal disease protection, PUMA. Today, any person working or residing in France on a stable and regular basis can benefit from the cost of taking over by PUMA without ever having contributed. It receives the same support as an ordinary contributor. This is the case for asylum seekers as soon as they submit their application and throughout the course of their investigation. Yet 70 per cent of them will be denied the right to asylum. This decision of OFPRA is not even communicated to health organizations – or even to other organizations. As asylum seekers are not distinguished from contributors, they therefore continue to benefit from the common law for a year or more. We can see how asylum is diverted, and how, sometimes, it even provokes a form of medical tourism, illustrated by many reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u288	Stop with that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u289	In the name of social justice and the protection of our health system, we must provide for a special regime for asylum seekers. Such a regime would allow us to follow them and to know them, contrary to what is happening today. Minister, we asked you about this, but we did not have a specific answer. I propose not only to replace the AME with emergency medical aid, such as that which exists in other European countries, but above all to harmonise this scheme at European level in order to avoid diversions and nomadism within the European Union – I refer you to what Mrs de Sarnez has said. France does not only have AME and PUMA for asylum seekers: it honors itself for having set up a unique system in Europe thanks to the ill foreign procedure. Let us ask ourselves the question of the enlargement of the care basket, of the fight against organised channels, against identity theft, and of frauds to biological analyses! Let us accompany the countries of origin and demand the modernization of their civil status in order to combat documentary fraud, in particular identity fraud, and to allow the identification of foreigners in an irregular situation! Because, generosity, you mustn't throw it away! We have never had effective tools for more control and transparency. Opacity does not protect; It worsens the French fractures. How can we move forward in an enlightened way if we do not have any data? We do not even know the cost of a non-health care claimant. We do not know how much national solidarity takes care of irregular foreigners and others. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM group]] So, Prime Minister, let us remember the words of Jean Jaurès: "The courage is to seek the truth and to say it. » [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I hope that you will be able to deny the information about Marseille published in the press, especially since it would be decisions taken without ever consulting the local elected representatives, which is not normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u290	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u291	For the first time in its history, our assembly is organizing a debate on immigration. This is a risky challenge in view of the abrasive nature of this issue in society, but it is precisely for this reason that this debate is necessary and even indispensable. For a long time, in France, it was considered that to speak of immigration was to play the game of the National Front.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u292	Not at all! That's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u293	It was therefore the National Front that talked about it and managed to advance its ideas in society. Many politicians then thought they had no choice but to try to stick to what they thought was the French opinion on immigration. But opinion was too manipulated by counter-truths, for the sole purpose, however contrary to the ideals and history of France, to legitimize the rejection of the foreigner and a retreat that would weaken our country. So it's a dangerous game that you have to get away from. Progressives must seize the issue of immigration by advancing their solutions, which are more realistic than that of populists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u294	Well, come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u295	They must do so without repeating either the words or concepts of the Conservatives, assuming full responsibility for their own values.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u296	That's audacity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u297	It would be false and irresponsible to deny that there are difficulties, in particular due to the lack of common rules for asylum in Europe, but also to the lack of mix in certain neighbourhoods, due to major mistakes in urban planning in the past. None, however, is insurmountable, and today the main issue is integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u298	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u299	The Minister of the Interior, Christophe Castaner, said, we must acknowledge the fact that our model has failed. That is why, when his predecessor had offered me a mission to reshape integration policy, I immediately accepted. For the debate does not deal so much with the question of who would or would not want to be integrated – this is a very convenient position to clear from any responsibility those who prefer to refer to "good" and "bad" foreigners. The debate is about the definition of an objective and the means to achieve it by making it an issue that mobilizes society as a whole. In my view, the objective must be threefold: to allow everyone to speak French, to work and to participate in the life of the city. The question of means then involves asking whether the conditions are now in place for this? The Government has made integration a priority by significantly increasing the State budget devoted to it, i.e. this year, an additional €104 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u300	Go tell Pantin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u301	As has been pointed out, this choice has made it possible to double and sometimes even triple the French courses offered to foreigners who have just arrived, to finance civic and vocational training and to create an inter-ministerial delegation for the integration of refugees. This is a major paradigm shift, since the previous government had gone so far as to remove the word "integration" of public policies, thus denying the need for the support and guidance of those who arrive in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u302	That's not very nice of Mr. Le Drian!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u303	But we need to go further, and now provide the same rules for all, foreigners and French, with a truly holistic approach to this policy. It is an imperative of justice and the condition of success. That the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Solidarity and Health are present today to participate in our debate, together with the Minister for the Interior, is therefore an excellent thing. In conclusion of my report to the Prime Minister last year, I called for the creation of a specific public institution, which would bring together all the services responsible for integration, in which the local authorities, the social partners and researchers working on the subject would sit, in order to remove all the barriers that continue to hinder integration policy. This proposal seems to me to be more relevant than ever. In this field more than in any other, a true transversality is indeed the condition of efficiency, and if public order is to be respected, it cannot constitute the alpha and omega of the reception of foreigners. Today, in the northern camps of Paris, there are almost 20 per cent of refugees who have been granted asylum: how can we protect someone whose life is threatened, and then turn them into homeless? What integration under these conditions? Those who have managed to escape horror only hope, upon arriving in our country, to regain some dignity and work. Let us therefore act so that the wandering, which can lead to the worst, is not their only horizon! That is justice. It means giving everyone the same chance, no more or less. It is normal that those who were unable to learn French during their schooling should be able to do so upon arrival. The faster it will be, the better, because without the language, there is no work or citizenship.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u304	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u305	It is also necessary for everyone to be able to care for themselves and to live in the same way. However, for some foreigners, it is still very complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u306	What about the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u307	We must therefore imagine specific care and housing routes, because, as you have pointed out, Madam Minister, it is much more costly for society to leave these women and men on the street or to allow pathologies to develop. This cost is as moral as it is financial, and this first experience with France can leave traces difficult to erase, if it is not at the origin of dramas – what happened recently in Lyon came to remind us. We must also strengthen the participation of foreigners in the city's life. I welcome the Volont'R programme, launched by Secretary of State Gabriel Attal and the Civic Service Agency, so that, every year, 5,000 refugees can access it. It is a great effort that must be prolonged, because many refugees are engaged in associations – they want to return to France what it has given them. With the adoption of one of my amendments to the bill for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration, which became the law of 18 September 2018, asylum seekers can now work six months after filing their application, compared to nine months earlier. Let us take stock of this measure, and see if it is not possible to further reduce this deadline! Asylum seekers are now forced to live for several months, sometimes years, in reception centres in which they are dependent on an allowance. They don't meet any French. It is time lost for their integration, during which we also deprive ourselves of what they could bring us. And that's so much money wasted. In this respect, we have one of the toughest legislations in Europe; In this area too, we need to harmonise our texts. Access to employment is now an objective of integration policy. The Skills Investment Plan opened vocational training to 6,000 refugees. However, too many obstacles still exist so that foreigners in a regular situation can work and are no longer obliged, against their will, to resort to solidarity. Under such conditions, xenophobia can only progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u308	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u309	Economic integration is hampered by cumbersome and complicated procedures, which are based on an update by the prefects of the list of occupations in tension, with extremely important differences in treatment between the departments. Why not simply consider, after a certain period of time, that a job offer that has not been provided is open to all? This is the case everywhere else in Europe, and it works, whereas in France, this complexity and the level of taxes the employer has to pay lead to what, five years after arriving in our country, only one in three foreigners has found a job. It has to change. In order to do this, it is essential to involve companies more closely. They continue to demand it, as pointed out again, in a rostrum last week, Mr Bernard Stalter, President of CMA France, who founded the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts. Finally, this implies a mobilization of the whole society. For, beyond means, the question of integration is first of all that of moments of shared lives and a common destiny, issues which must concern us all. This is particularly the case in territories where the commitment of elected officials and citizens is decisive in combating the ghettoization of certain neighbourhoods and so that those who arrive do not discover France only through associations or administration. In this area, we have a lot to learn from the solidarity and know-how of popular cities. When Bondy relies on his communal university so that the inhabitants accompany the foreigners who have just arrived in France in large museums, what precious time saved for integration! When, in Garges-lès-Gonesse, the mayor created the collective Garges-en-Paix, in order to involve all the Gargeois, in their diversity, in the operations of urban renovations that will radically change the face of their city and their way of sharing it, he did much more for integration than those who were only incantation or who demanded general prohibitions of lists in municipal elections. It is obvious that communityism can exist in some neighbourhoods, even if it remains to be quantified and objective, far from the fantasies agitated by certain media that mainly want to sell paper, or by some politicians, always ready to divide in order to rule better. This must lead us to be intractable with the promoters of radical Islam, and with all those who try to exploit it politically. But this communalism cannot serve as an alibi to those who, by confusing it with secularism for example, reinforce what they claim to denounce. The expression of his faith, even Muslim, must not be a barrier to integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u311	What a beautiful debate! You can be proud of yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u312	The President of the Republic recently recalled this. This mobilization of society must also lead us to introspection, and lead us to open our eyes to certain realities. The integration of foreigners will have all its effects only when their children, having grown up in France, will have the same opportunities as all of them to succeed in their new country. The proposals made on some banks to deprive them of access to nationality are therefore unworthy. They disqualify those who do and then want to talk about integration. Rather, let us keep in mind that, having become French, it will always be four times more difficult for these young people to find a job and that, even if they succeed, they will often stay with their parents until more than thirty years of age, for lack of access to housing! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us also imagine how they feel by hearing the hate speech of a certain elite on a daily basis, while to them we don't pass anything, not even a tweet! These young Frenchmen, whom I see every day in Cergy, did, however, also aspire to study, to work, to marry. So, in order to truly make society, let us rethink our relationship to otherness, and let us not lose sight of the fact that with migrations that will continue, the stakes are nothing less than France's ability to remain that great country of freedom that it has always been.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u313	Mr Claude Goasguen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u314	Prime Minister, as you know, I have a great deal of consideration for your talent, but your speech has made us very disappointed. I expected proposals; We've had the beginnings of possible reflections! I believe that, in fact, we have not addressed the problem of migration policy. We have tried to address, in a matter of minutes, the technical improvement and criticism of immigration laws and regulations. But it's not the same thing! It must be said that this policy is obsolete, and that it does not work. It's so obvious that it's not worth wasting your time pointing out. The right to asylum has been distorted. It was forgotten that the right of asylum was the right of refugees, which had emerged from the Geneva Convention of 28 July 1951. In fact, you have no real power over the right to asylum, because you have delegated that power to OFPRA. Only the National Court of Asylum can possibly judge asylum in terms of legality. I stress that she does so in deplorable conditions – I speak in experience for having pleaded a little before her. As far as the AME is concerned, I was very shocked to hear speeches that explain that the AME debate is limited to disputes about immigration and the health of immigrants. The problem isn't here! I was among the first to say that the question of AME did not arise for immigrants, but that it arose for public administration. Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, the problem with the public administration of the AME is that it is a state budget managed by social security without being controlled. Let's just say it's for anything but immigration in general. It is used to fill the deficit in public hospitals, and to camouflage a number of things. Why would social security get tired of carrying out checks when the state is a good payer? Madam Minister, if we need to reform the AME, we must first ask your services to control it, which they do not do. Your department does not control the AME. Only social security, which is not equipped for this purpose, pretends to carry out this check. There are 16 checks in one year for a budget of almost 1 billion euros! I welcome the fact that social security refers to the transparency of the AME, but I do not think this is the debate. There are already a very large number of reports: you don't even need to ask for others. Ask the IGAS: they certainly have archives. See also the financial inspectorate, or the National Assembly: we have already worked on the subject several times. I myself have signed three reports on this subject on behalf of the Committee on Finance. You should ask the general inspection of the administration to draw on it. You might have some bad surprises. But migration policy is something else, and I would like, Mr Prime Minister, to ask ourselves together about it. First of all, there is no rule of migration policy. All those who think that it has been established once and for all on the basis of Republican considerations are mistaken and do not know the history. There have been migration policies before the First World War, for reasons that we all know; There has been the migration policies of decolonization; and there is the current migration policy, which actually dates back to the 1970s. At that time, because the world was what it was, France needed foreign workers, less well paid than the others. This labour policy is still ours today. It is a neocolonial immigration policy, which has only one objective: to bring immigrants in, and I say it without intent to shock the right-wing and central deputies. But as we see today, this system no longer works. I know, Prime Minister, your sense of foresight. So let's try to think about what we need to do in the context of globalization. Our duty, in my view, is the rebalancing of global society through immigration, which neo-Marxists – you see I have good references! – call "levelling". The policy of attracting immigrants must end; We must help their countries of origin, so that they as we win. Given the difficulties we face, the idea that should underpin the new immigration policy is the establishment of peace between African countries and our own. So we're going to have to question the inspired dogmas of the 1970s, and this is where things get complicated, but I'm going to go fast.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u315	No, it's interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u316	Family reunification?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u317	You must conclude, Mr. Goasguen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u318	But there's no more work! As for nationality, it now falls within the scope of the civil code, whereas it is a legal right – and I know that by saying that, I offend lawyers. Geopolitics and citizenship are other subjects that we need to consider. How do you not want to attract foreigners if you promise them rights identical to those of our citizens, who dissuade them from returning home? I agree with Marielle de Sarnez: it is necessary to implement a bilateral policy. Immigration is the search for world peace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u319	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u320	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is not this current technocratic system with which we are wasting our time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u321	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u322	This debate gives us an opportunity to take stock of the forces, but also of the fragility of our migration policy, and to learn from them to think about the future. It is my responsibility to address the European context of migration policies. It is certainly not easy to welcome, but we are able to do so. Our humanity and our model of society will depend on our ability to welcome with respect and dignity. This time for debate must therefore be a time for reflection on what we are today and what we want to be tomorrow. Given the changing demographics, the economy and the global environment, migration is indeed a major and inescapable challenge of the 21st century. Immigration has always been an important part of our country. Thanks to it, France developed and grew as a nation. The migration issue is above all a question of society, which must be understood objectively, based on research, particularly in the social sciences, in order to provide collective, adapted and shared responses. We must ensure that the figures are not instrumentalised in one direction or the other. As the number of asylum applications decreased at European level between 2017 and 2018, it increased in France, making our country the second largest receiving European country in absolute terms, as the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs recalled. However, I would like to put this figure in perspective by referring it to the total population of our country: France ranks only ninth among the European countries in this respect. There's no submersion! The phenomenon of increasing the demand for asylum in our country is also linked to the question of economic immigration. A better policy in this area would inevitably limit the number of asylum applications. We must also pay attention to shortcuts and amalgams: let us not underestimate the power of words. The On the Move programme, on the basis of which our majority emerged, affirms the will to make solidarity the heart of our policy. To strengthen solidarity is to stick to the principles that are ours. I am thinking in particular of the universality of social protection and of the AME, which is regularly criticized. We are particularly committed to it, as the Minister of Solidarity and Health has pointed out: it is a real public health issue. The European Union has also been built with the desire to establish greater solidarity between its Member States. A comprehensive and concerted European migration policy is essential. It must be based on a future perspective, not an emergency, in order to allow for a high level of protection and dignified reception conditions throughout Europe. However, the countries of the Union are struggling to reach a consensus on these issues. The Dublin regulations on asylum were signed in the 1990s at the same time as the Schengen agreements. Their aim was to strike a balance between freedom of movement and the management of migration. The rule is clear: the State responsible for the application for asylum is the State which "allows" the person to enter the European area, even if that person does not wish to apply for asylum from that State. In fact, Italy, Spain, Greece, Bulgaria and Malta are the first countries responsible for asylum applications. Despite France's strict application of the Dublin regulations, this system fails to guide and accommodate in a dignified and pragmatic manner those who seek asylum within the European Union. We can easily find three causes for this failure and for the existence of secondary movements within the European states. Firstly, the Dublin system does not take into account the personal project of asylum seekers, their family, community, cultural or linguistic ties. Secondly, asylum seekers do not have the same chances of obtaining protection depending on whether they apply in a particular European State. Thirdly, this system is unfair because it places a very heavy burden on the countries of entry into the European Union. The Dublin procedure is therefore a failure from the point of view of exiled persons, who are disadvantaged, from the point of view of host companies, the system being unnecessarily costly, and from the point of view of the European Union, as it creates a deficit of trust and solidarity between the Member States. We therefore believe that there is a need to consider a thorough overhaul of the asylum procedure in Europe. It should be noted that the pre-agreement reached in Malta under the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior circumvents the Dublin Treaty: this is a significant step forward. If this agreement were implemented, the migrants rescued at sea would no longer be the responsibility of the country of first entry, but would be distributed among the co-signatory countries of the agreement. Getting out of Dublin requires a fully shared solidarity and responsibility. As the President of the Republic said last week in his address to the Council of Europe, we must strengthen the responsibility and solidarity of the Schengen Member States and advocate for the harmonisation of migration policies at Union level, seeking as far as possible harmonisation from the top. Let us take the example of the status of the authorities responsible for granting protection to asylum seekers, who, according to the countries, are not necessarily independent. In France, the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons, OFPRA, has been functionally independent since 2015. This independence, guaranteed by law, is a cornerstone of respect for the right to asylum. Its legislative consecration has ensured a form of sealing of asylum decisions in the light of the imperatives of our diplomatic action, which protects the latter. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] I am therefore totally opposed to a government's political control over asylum, especially after hearing the extremes of the Republicans group just now! OFPRA has a higher level of protection than its European counterparts, not independent of political power, resulting in "asilary dumping". Thus, the harmonisation of the European Offices in the sense of functional independence and the mutual recognition of their decisions, or even the establishment of a European Asylum Agency, seems necessary. In France, many asylum applications come from nationals from "safe" countries. The fact that certain social groups in those countries were still subject to persecution should not be overlooked. I am thinking in particular of members of the LGBTI community – lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexes – who need to be protected, do not dislike some of us. It must be noted that the OFPRA's procedures, if combined with the CNDA's appeals, remain too long despite a significant increase in human resources. We can only question these deadlines. It is necessary to analyse the situation in order to be able to respond appropriately and in accordance with international conventions governing the right to asylum. The European Union also emphasises cooperation with third countries, such as Turkey and Libya, through mobility partnerships or readmission agreements. Significant financial support is often in the balance of negotiations. It seems to me that development aid cannot be a currency of exchange and that it must be part of a comprehensive policy to reduce inequalities such as the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs has restated its contours. In his address to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the President of the Republic denounced the "inhumane and degrading treatment" of migrants in Libya. [[Ms. Fiona Lazaar and Mr. Erwan Balanant applaud]] I recommend that agreements with this country be terminated as long as these treatments continue. As we know, migration will continue on a global scale and towards Europe. Climate change is now in addition to the migration factors we already know. Today, more than ever, we must accept the idea that migration will be part of our future. The main thing is to prepare France and the European Union for this phenomenon in order to avoid future migration crises. Finally, I want to tell you that, in a context of rising xenophobia and populism that threaten common European values, the Union must fully contribute to deconstructing fears and to appeaseing. We must conceive of immigration challenges as an opportunity to be proactive, while demonstrating that the principles on which our country and the European Union have built are still valid. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] "Unity in diversity": this is the motto of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u323	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u324	We are meeting to discuss the important issue of immigration, following statements by the President of the Republic on the occasion of the parliamentary re-entry. One year after the enactment of the so-called asylum and immigration law, we can only welcome this debate. In politics, indeed, all themes must be able to be addressed. And just as we care about the environment, the state of our planet and the future that we will leave for our children, we must not make ourselves a decreasing activist, so it is not because we debate immigration and want to firmly reaffirm our principles and the importance of integration in our society that it makes us a nationalist reactionary. We must therefore welcome the inclusion of this debate on the agenda of our Assembly, without wondering whether it is the result of a political calculation or a sudden flash of lucidity by the President of the Republic. Having said that, what will remain of this debate? If it is only a question of bringing together parliamentarians in the Chamber to deliver speeches, what is the point? It's no use. Our discussions this evening must be followed by concrete actions, otherwise it will only remain empty words. What mid-term review can we draw from now? As I said, the asylum and immigration law was enacted a year ago. It has been an opportunity for lively debate in the House, but what action has it taken? Apart from an increase in retention times and an acceleration in the time taken to review cases, there is little to do with the fact that the rate of return to the border of illegal aliens is still abnormally low, and our country continues to create an air call for illegal immigrants and networks of smugglers who benefit from the misery of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u325	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u326	However, the value of the welcome we offer depends on the rigour of the conditions on which we make it dependent and on the effectiveness of the escorts to the border when these conditions are not met. Our social security system is one of the most envied in the world and state medical assistance is an indispensable mechanism for our country. However, we must face it and recognize that the AME is the subject of unacceptable abuse. Without eliminating it, these abuses must be stopped and, in order to do so, its mechanism must be thoroughly reviewed. The general delegate of the majority party said that the issue of immigration was neither left nor right. He is right: it is not a question of left or right, it is a question of courage. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the assessment of the asylum and immigration law does not work in your favour – otherwise we would not be here to discuss it. However, the review of this legislation has provided you with the opportunity to take the necessary steps to implement a truly effective policy. But, wanting to pursue a permanent policy of "at the same time", we end up pouring into "no": our migration policy does not allow a dignified reception or effective integration into our society. The question of integration is the real dead end of your government's migration policy, Prime Minister. This is the observation we have today: an ineffective migration policy and an insufficient integration policy. France can be proud to be an attractive country for foreigners who want to contribute to our society, but only if they accept its historical heritage, as well as all the values of the Republic. The arrival in a foreign country is not easy and requires efforts, in the first place integration efforts. For it is for the arrivals to adapt to the country in which they arrive, and not for the host country to bow to those who settle there. This is why communalism is not acceptable: it leaves in France a parallel society, with its morals and rules, competing with the laws of the Republic. Without integration policy, you not only play the game of communityism, but you also contribute to the rise of extremes, which surf on this wave and divide our society between the so-called ethnic French and those called paper. If this falls within the scope of an electoral strategy or calculation, you will be responsible for its consequences. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Without a policy of integration, we are doomed to see the soil of division persist within our society and among our fellow citizens. It is therefore time to implement an effective migration policy and an ambitious integration policy, so that at last we can see only French people, united under the flag and, above all, by the ideal of freedom, equality and fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u327	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u328	I will start by quoting President Macron,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u329	Excellent! It's a good start!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u330	... who said of immigration, at the time of the parliamentary re-entry: "We have no right not to look at this subject in front of us. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u331	Well, here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u332	Here we are, indeed. While a debate on immigration is being held for the first time in our walls, which will become annual, a few reminders, some clarifications, and some proposals need to be made. If we, the Republicans, have repeatedly called for the organisation of a debate on immigration, for example in June 2017, in support of the presidential and legislative campaigns, it was not to sound a litany of pious wishes or to mechanically expose our proposals one after the other, but to offer the national representation the opportunity to debate and decide, on an annual basis, on the proposal of the Government, the immigration ceilings, the famous quotas, in order to regain control – that of our migration policy, in particular of economic and family immigration – and to take over the collective destiny of the nation. I have heard you, Prime Minister, speak of various avenues for discussion, including quotas by nationality or by professional sector. Well, let's talk about it! But fast. We are, at least, ready for it. There is much to bet, however, that the other avenues of work that you have outlined remain far below the expectations of our compatriots. The so-called asylum and immigration law of Gérard Collomb added a few measures of a technical-administrative nature whose effect on asylum applications was zero or even counterproductive in some respects – the President of the Republic was obliged to recognize it. This is attested by the sharp increase in the number of asylum applications and residence permits in 2018. It is to be feared that the measures, or rather the half-measures, which are proposed to us today, will focus only on managing the consequences of migratory flows, only on dealing with the most pressing, in short, with a few trickles, instead of tackling the real causes of the phenomenon. I would like to focus in particular on the expulsion measures of foreigners: expulsions, OQTF, prohibitions from French territory. The failure of the French State to implement these measures, especially the OQTFs, is quite indicative of our impotence, of the drift we are experiencing in this area and of the almost total disappearance of our power to decide sovereignly who the Republic welcomes or refuses in the national territory. With regard to OQTFs, the figures speak for themselves: in 2018, out of 103852 pronounced, only 12884 were executed, or 12.4%; and this rate of execution has been declining steadily since 2015. In this respect, the comparison with Germany or the United Kingdom is really not to our advantage. In order to make the deportations to the border more effective in the case of OQTF, we have repeatedly proposed, through amendments to the asylum and immigration law, and we still propose, at the very least, to drastically reduce the scope for judicial review of the State's decisions. I would remind you, because our compatriots must know, that there are not less than 20 of them: it is far too much. We have also proposed – but these amendments were also rejected some 18 months ago – to significantly reduce the time limits for appeals and to harmonise them downwards by setting them at a very limited number of days. On none of these proposals The Republicans were unfortunately not heard. We also proposed that any rejection of an application for asylum by OFPRA automatically lead to an OQTF, but on this point too, we were not able to obtain the consent of the majority. This, too, must be known to our compatriots: disputes involving foreigners occupy a very important part of the activity of our administrative courts – almost 40% of the total activity of the administrative courts and almost 50% of that of the administrative courts of appeal. This is, again, far too much: this situation is no longer tenable. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, on this and many other issues, we call for more audacity and courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u333	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u334	I spent my childhood in Bamako-sur-Seine in the 1970s. This is what Montreuil was called at the time – you remember, Mister Little. I shared the playground with Manouches, Blacks, Arabs and Portuguese.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u335	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u336	And Jews!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u337	Yes, at the time, we did not embarrass ourselves with euphemisms in the name of the politically correct, but we lived in harmony and without prejudice. France had made a great deal of appeal to economic immigration, the Communist Party was the majority in the neighbourhoods and its activists were the social cement – Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u338	He's not that old!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u339	[[Smile]] You, too, Mrs Faucillon, remember that? No, but not: Mr. Little is older than you, if I may... The thirty glorious ones have succeeded the forty laborious – the economic and social crisis, globalization, with its flaws and qualities, geopolitical and climatic issues. The Communist Party left room for communalism and the National Front, which fed each other and fed prejudices and fantasies. The social elevator has stopped and immigration has become the magnifying magnifier of the difficulties of our economic model. Like any magnifying glass, it gives a distorted vision. Stéphanie Stantcheva, a French economist born in Bulgaria and shining in the United States, has worked on the perception of immigration by French and French people. This is what emerges from his work. Among those living in France, there are now 12% immigrants, less than in Germany, less than in Spain, less than in Canada, less than in the United States. The French think there are three times as many. The majority of French people believe that the unemployment rate of immigrants is twice as high as it is in reality. And a quarter of French people think that immigrants receive twice as many social benefits as they do, without contributing to them. Too many immigrants, immigrants who do not work, immigrants who receive too many social benefits: these distorted images have been fed by the political class. The left, in the name of universalism, rejected the idea of economic immigration – Carvounas recalled it. The right, on the other hand, has cast doubt on the inability of foreigners to integrate – that was Mr. Ciotti – and stigmatized family reunification – for Mr. Goasguen – while it was she who had the initiative!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u340	It's a little caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u341	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] The extreme right, finally, made a family business flourish by making immigration the source of all the evils of French society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u342	We can see you live abroad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u343	Let us not look at it, ladies and gentlemen: if the French have immigrants the image I have described to you, it is also because our model of integration has failed. So let's talk about economic immigration; But before that, we must start by better integrating those who are already on our soil with the work. Without work, no sustainable integration is possible. Again, the figures speak for themselves: in France, more than 40% of immigrants do not have a job. Mr Ciotti should know that this is not a law of nature, since in Germany it is less than a third and less than a quarter in Portugal. So we can do better. Similarly, in France, fewer than one in two immigrant women have a job, ten points less than in Germany. Here too we can do better, knowing that, when a mother does not work...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u344	Eight hundred thousand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u345	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...it's the second generation that runs out, the second generation that doesn't fit in, one in four immigrant youth with no jobs or training, while it's one in ten in Germany and Canada. Here again, we can do better, we must do better. And I intend to highlight this issue of the employment of immigrant women in the future law of Marlène Schiappa and Bruno Le Maire on the economic emancipation of all women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u346	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u347	But, more broadly, we need to change our position: immigration is often seen in our country as a duty, whether it is a duty of humanity or a duty with regard to family reunification, and therefore lived as a burden, when we must make it an opportunity. This change in posture will certainly not be without effort, but we must no longer undergo immigration: we must become an actor. The asylum and immigration law has already incorporated the proposals of Aurélien Taché. We need to go further. Thus, today, a company is taxed to the tune of 750 euros to hire a migrant who would touch the SMIC: is that normal?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u348	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u349	Today, the recognition of qualifications, diplomas and, above all, experiences is a true journey of the combatant: is that normal?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u350	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u351	Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I am also a member of the French Foreign Office, and in this capacity, well placed to know that a French citizen returning from abroad must wait three months before receiving medical coverage, whereas, for an asylum seeker, it is immediate:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u352	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u353	...is that normal?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u354	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u355	All these issues, and others, must be addressed without taboos...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u356	As you say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u357	... and, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, in their entirety.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u358	Thank you for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u359	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] It is all our public policies that we must adapt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u360	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u361	"The courage is to seek the truth and to say it; It is not to be subjected to the law of triumphant lies that pass, and not to echo, our soul, our mouth and our hands with foolish applause and fanatical hues. This quotation from Jean Jaurès sums up perfectly the French' expectation of us on the subject that brings us together today, as on many others besides: whether we show political courage, of this courage that, by ease or sometimes by tactics, has been rare in recent decades. Ladies and gentlemen, on such a sensitive subject, I believe that we would benefit from getting out of postures, impostures and slogans: immigration is neither a chance nor a burden for our country; It is a human reality that we must never lose sight of because we are talking about women, men, families, isolated children who migrate to escape either the persecution they are victims of, or the social misery of their country. And it is a human reality that we are going to face more and more in the coming decades: migration will continue and intensify as global inequalities, global warming and instability increase in some parts of the world. We need to anticipate it. It is also a human reality to which we have not been able to respond effectively, neither in our country nor on a European scale, a reality that makes the bed of those who thrive on hatred and fear, adding far more problems than they propose solutions. However, we can no longer be satisfied with the multiplication of unworthy camps, which settle where many social difficulties are already concentrated, or with the conditions for sheltering isolated minors. Elected from Pas-de-Calais, I have been confronted with these unworthy situations, also confronted with the routes endangering families every week by placing them on nutshells to join the Eldorado: England. Nor can we satisfy ourselves with the delays, which are still too long, in examining asylum applications and the lack of effectiveness of voluntary return procedures. Finally, we cannot be satisfied with our policy of integrating statutory refugees, which fails to integrate them. These findings have been developed by my colleagues earlier, and I think we can easily share them beyond our partisan quarrels, because the real debate is there. We must therefore now better assess and correct public policies on immigration, asylum and integration. Mr Prime Minister, you, together with the Minister for Solidarity and Health and the Minister for the Interior, have presented some guidelines that are relevant to me, based on three guiding principles: effectiveness, firmness and humanity. I am personally open to these reflections, without any taboo. To show courage is to tell the truth. Too long, the proponents of denial have preferred to do ostrich rather than address the subject of immigration, throwing some of our fellow citizens, especially the humble ones, into the arms of the National Front.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u362	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u363	However, I do not wish to overbid miracle incantations that would solve the problems we face overnight. Our fellow citizens are not fools, they have become aware that everything cannot be resolved at the national level; and no one here can claim to tell the truth about such a complex subject. Hence, given the pregnancy of the subject today and tomorrow, Parliament must take full control of the issue of migration policy. For my part, I plead for the creation of a specific parliamentary office, capable of bringing out shared diagnoses on all of our benches and on the basis of which we could debate. This parliamentary office would have two roles: evaluation and anticipation. It would be composed of Members of Parliament and Senators, the majority and the opposition, and would be based on a college of recognized academic experts and would propose a permanent program of research and evaluation on immigration and citizenship policies to inform Parliament and our fellow citizens. This office could also be responsible for the centralization and communication of statistical data on immigration and the presence of foreigners on French soil, thus limiting the mistrust sometimes expressed against the figures provided by the administration. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, migration policy is for me a subject which commits the destiny of our social and national cohesion. In this capacity, I am convinced that it is up to us parliamentarians, political leaders that we are, to take our part in it, to have the courage to grasp it fully and with discernment, and thus to fulfil the wish expressed in this rostrum by Michel Rocard almost thirty years ago: to reconcile politics and wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u364	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u365	[[Mr. Roland Lescure applauds]] To talk about immigration is to talk about movements, whether it is the movements of the world or the deep movements of our country, it is also to talk about permanence, that of the process of integration through which the thousand faces of France all have the color of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u366	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u367	...and that of our tradition of reception by virtue of its status as asylum land. Guaranteeing asylum is France's immutable commitment, a constitutional commitment, a duty of protection, the respect for which presupposes that it is not denatured. This is what our majority reaffirmed by passing the law of September 10, 2018. The Law Commission regularly monitors this and will take stock of it on Wednesday. The tangible effects are undeniable: thanks to talented passports, France is more attractive for skilled foreign workers; In the framework of the Republican integration contract, French courses saw their hours doubled; in the prefectures, the services have provided important reorganisation efforts, the commission has thus found it in the Hauts-de-Seine where the appointment is dematerialised and simplified, the queues are reduced; the new reception and situation review centres – CAES – evaluate and guide quickly and effectively, such as the one in Nanterre we visited; At the Vincennes administrative detention centre, we found that there were more removals. I recently met with the representative in France of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees who told me that our procedure is working, and rather well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u368	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u369	They can't afford it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u370	In this regard, the considerable work done by State officials, the French Office for Immigration and Integration, OFPRA and CNDA is to be commended. From our preparatory work, I note two areas on which we can move forward, in the continuity of our action. First of all, the first welcome, because a bad start is the certainty of a chaotic trajectory. It is intolerable for people to spend months on the street, at the gates of Paris, especially the gate of La Chapelle. The material and psychological consequences of wandering are disastrous, in addition to obstructing future integration and fuelling the mistrust of our fellow citizens. It is therefore urgent to strengthen our first reception facilities: let us increase the capacities of the CAES, everywhere in France. Because our policy must be territorial, from first reception to integration: this is the direction we took in 2018. Let's go further! It is a real regional pact that we must create! a pact involving all actors – state, communities, associations, companies and citizens. This is necessary because the capacity of Île-de-France is not sufficient; It is also a question of territorial equity; Finally, it is to allow those whom we will protect to take root on our soil for a long time, as soon as they arrive. I want to develop a second axis by further improving the efficiency of our asylum procedure. It is fair and fair, but we must make it faster at all stages, because it is not enough! It is up to us to identify and remedy the blockages: I am thinking of the majority of these men and women from Syria or Afghanistan, for whom our aid is the last resort. Why not think about a faster acceptance procedure dedicated to them? I am also thinking of applicants from safe countries. Thus, in my constituency, a little girl and her mother, who came from such a country, will soon be expelled, an inevitable decision that took two years. Two years for nothing is long, especially when you're seven. Our responsibility is not to let lives be built on foundations doomed to collapse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u371	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u372	Our responsibility is not to let those whom we are not intended to accept believe that they could benefit from the flaws of our return system. For the integrity of our asylum system is also based on the effectiveness of the decision to refuse, and hence of the removal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u373	Do they make kids?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u374	Forced removals have already increased by 10% because, thanks to the increase in the maximum length of detention, we now obtain more consular passes and manage to move further away; In addition, beneficiaries of return aid have increased by 50 %. We must continue in this direction and in particular continue to encourage voluntary returns. The law of 10 September 2018 has a year. This debate is not a starting point and should not be a point of arrival. It is now up to us, members of the Law Committee and all parliamentarians, to assess and ensure that this law has its full effect. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] "All I ask politicians is that they simply change the world, without starting to change the truth," said Jean Paulhan. On immigration, which has been the subject of so much excess and overbidding, we will benefit from being able to do so collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u375	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u376	Whether we like it or not, migratory movements have shaped Europe and will continue to shape it for a long time. And today, the European dimension of the migration issue is both obvious and necessary. It is obvious, since the absence of internal borders within the Schengen area links our migration flows to the policies of our neighbours; It is necessary because migration is a global reality and, like other phenomena that ignore borders, it is counterproductive to want to deal with it only at the national level. However, the lack of agreement between the Member States of the European Union in the face of the massive population movements of the 2010s was clear: the closure of borders, the return of people to the country of first entry, and, more recently, the closure of reception ports in violation of international law. In the face of this situation, it is our duty to forcefully reaffirm European values in the field of human rights, but also the principle of solidarity within the European Union. Let us not forget that some of the people who arrive at our borders are entitled to international protection and refugee status. Asylum is one of Europe's intangible values. Nor should we forget that, during the dark hours of our common history, many Europeans have found refuge elsewhere in the world. It is true that we do not always agree with our partners on how to apply this right: the conditions for access to refugee status differ greatly from one State to another, as do the conditions for receiving and caring for persons. In a Europe of twenty-eight, where institutional and jurisdictional practices diverge, it seems essential to ensure fair treatment for the most vulnerable, by advancing the European reform of asylum, as many speakers have already pointed out. The creation of a European Asylum Agency, with extensive operational resources, should support the Member States in their task of receiving and processing applications. On these most consensual aspects of asylum reform, I believe it is essential to move forward. I am convinced that the entry into office of the new European Commission will make it possible to make progress on these issues. Several States of good will, including France, wish to create a mechanism to allocate the burden of receiving and processing asylum applications. This initiative must be completed quickly, so that effective solidarity between the States finally takes precedence over national interests and the provisions laid down in the Dublin Regulation. In parallel with this major recast of European asylum policy, we also need to think about the definition of a legal migration policy, which must be linked between national and European level. Let us not forget the formula of Jean Bodin, according to which "It is riches only of men". The demographic dynamics of our continent call for the establishment of safe, defined and concerted legal migration routes that take into account the needs of the labour market. Some countries, such as Australia or Canada, have understood before us the importance of attractiveness in ensuring labour immigration targeting skilled workers. It therefore seems to me a priority to review the rules for the allocation of the European Blue Card, which allows third-country nationals to come and exercise their talents in our economies. One of the challenges, again, is to harmonise national practices, since several Member States also apply their own arrangements – in France, it is the talent passport. The common visa policy is also one of the major instruments of controlled immigration to European territory. A gradual and case-by-case approach should be favoured in this area. Finally, the European Union has a key role to play in the protection of external borders, which is essential to the fight against illegal migration flows. The Frontex agency is doing a very important job in this area. At the same time, European cooperation must be strengthened with the countries of origin of illegal migrants, as well as with the countries through which they transit before they arrive on European soil. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM groups and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] The beginning of the new European legislature represents a crucial moment for progress on these issues, and France must firmly and decisively weigh in favour of an approach based on the values and principle of European solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u377	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u378	Let me briefly respond, after a long debate, to some of the interventions that have been made. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for participating in this exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u379	Did we really have a choice?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u380	Many speakers questioned whether it was legitimate or appropriate – and indeed both – to address this issue in these circumstances in this House. The debate seems to me to have shown that the subject was serious, that it was often mentioned by our fellow citizens, and that there would be something curious that the National Assembly would not take the time to discuss migration issues. We did indeed wish to propose not a debate related to a bill or technical measures, but a debate on the overall strategy that a nation can adopt in terms of migration policy – from official development assistance, which intervenes in relations with countries of origin, to the conditions under which integration or return to countries of origin can be organized. This comprehensive approach seems original to me, as well as the fact that, as has been pointed out, several ministers follow this forum to present the elements of a strategy. It seems to me to note that a debate in the National Assembly on the migration policy strategy may be possible. From this discussion I am sure to say a few things have been achieved. [[Smile]] First of all, there is no consensus, that is the least one can say. When we talk about migration policies, we see very strong disagreements – they are obviously legitimate, it is good that they are formulated, and I do not want to caricature things by saying that – between those who think that submersion would be at work and that it is appropriate by all means to stop it, and those who think that immigration is a data that must be accepted, or even encouraged, in order, in any case, to ensure that it is carried out properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u381	Without any caricature, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u382	Between these two positions, there is a series of nuances. I cannot trace them all here, but it is clear that, with regard to the issue of migration policies, there is no consensus as to what should be done. It may also be noted that it is difficult to express a nuance in this respect. Why? I note that during this debate several speakers demanded respect for certain principles, to which the Government had explicitly reiterated its commitment twenty, thirty or fifty minutes earlier. In the same way, several Members called for measures, even though we had mentioned them and expressed our wish to move forward on these issues – the Minister of Health had, for example, done so with regard to the possibility for CPAMs to cross-check applicants for certain medical procedures with the Visabio file identifying visa recipients. In other words, in this respect, the dissension and sensitivity of the discussion are such that it is difficult to have a nuanced exchange. The third element – which is, for the time being, an acquis and an element of consensus: no one in this House believes for a second that migration would be a cyclical phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u383	They even exist since the dawn of time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u384	Whether on the far right or on the far left of this House, no one imagines for a moment that we will live a temporary period, at the end of which the migratory pressure would be destined to disappear. No one has said this: it is an element of consensus, even if it does not mean that we all draw the same conclusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u385	Humans migrate, it's a fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u386	We are all human, it is indeed a consensus...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u387	Economic, political, demographic imbalances...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u388	Not to mention ecological!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u389	... also ecological, you are right: everything suggests that the migratory pressure is in the long term and that we must therefore think about our approach taking into account its structural character.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u390	And you only discovered that today?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u391	Two other elements seem to me to be acquired. First of all, while the European dimension has been mentioned, I have been somewhat surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not. We are all aware that this migratory pressure requires a coordinated and effective response at European level – more precisely, I have not heard anyone consider that France alone could implement an effective migration policy by being completely disconnected from the measures taken in neighbouring countries. However, existing measures and initiatives in this area are poorly described, and often few mentioned. However, as you have said with some of your colleagues, Madam President of the Committee on European Affairs, the current period should allow us to deal with this issue at European level – firstly because European public opinion is aware of the phenomenon, but also because a new Commission is taking up its functions. We must keep this context in mind: the time seems welcome for us to take initiatives to bring about convergence of reception conditions between countries and asylum policies, to develop border protection or surveillance if we wish, etc. Finally, the last thing I believe is that asylum is often at the heart of discussions on migration policies. France accounts for 123,000 asylum applications in 2019 – a much higher number than previously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u392	Asylum seekers are not an adjustment variable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u393	Madam Member, I listened very carefully to the chairman of your group, each of whom was able to appreciate the presentation. I tried not to interrupt it. But you do it yourself in a systematic way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u394	That's right, that's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u395	Because what you're saying is quite unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u396	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Maybe you don't agree with me, but at least let me say it, please! Asylum is often at the centre of the questions asked. We must take this issue seriously, especially since – as several speakers have pointed out – the right to asylum is not a right like any other. It is not a condition of entry as family reunification or the development of economic immigration may have been, when France, during the 1970s and 1980s, voluntarily and consciously - if not always explicitly - brought in workers from other countries, particularly Africa. The right of asylum is of a different nature, sacred – it is often said – and particular, because it reveals many of us. This very special sacred right is, we see, at the heart of all questions. It must, of course, be considered with the utmost seriousness: I share the view of those in this forum who felt that not to deal seriously with the real functioning of the right of asylum would put at risk this essential dimension of who we are and what we want to continue to be. In other words, as we move forward on migration policy issues, the issue of asylum will have a particular dimension. I could provide various answers to the speakers who have spoken, but many have left. In particular, I regret the departure of your colleague Guillaume Larrivé, who spoke a lot about migration law and policy and expressed the wish to draft a constitutional charter. He did not tell us how the right of asylum would be dealt with in this Charter, nor what should be done with the European Charter of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u397	Yes, he did!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u398	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] He mentioned it. He did not say, on the other hand, that the removal of the visa requirement for Albanian nationals was from November 2010, when he was, I believe – but I am speaking under the control of those who know him better than I do – to the levers in the cabinet of the then Minister of the Interior. This state of affairs does not invalidate the decision of the time, but should invite him – as he invites me – to modesty as to the scope of the words that we sometimes hold with great certainty, in these forums or elsewhere. It could also have been recalled that the directive came back in 2008, but let's move on. Mr. Dumont, you indicated that the deportations to the border were declining. It seems to me that you confused the most and the least.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u399	It's in the budget blue!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u400	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] They increased by 20% in the first nine months of 2019 compared to 2018. We'll check the numbers, but I'm pretty sure of the ones I'm moving forward. I would then like to return to the proposals that have been made. I heard President Lagarde talk about the exchange of information between the state and mayors on migration policy. Since the State asks the mayors for various things at the time of admission or application for a visa, I do not believe that I am illegitimate to allow mayors who wish to do so to be better informed of the decisions taken in connection with the stay. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Brahim Hammouche also applauds]] In any case, it may be useful for the state and mayors to raise the issue in confidence. In reality, such exchanges already exist, since mayors are asked to give an opinion. One can imagine a return to the ground, as proposed by President Lagarde. Consideration may also be given to extending, in some cases, the granting of multiple entry visas for practical reasons: in general, when an application has been accepted for the first time, it is the second and the third. Let us try to find a framework to avoid these repeated visa applications. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As far as quantitative objectives are concerned, you are right, Madam President Marielle de Sarnez: we need to think about the professional fields of immigration. Our current system is very hypocritical, because the list is out of date and the needs are immense. In this respect, we can do better. I am fully prepared for the Government to move forward with Parliament on this matter. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Boyer asked me a question about the port of Marseille and I am very happy to answer it. La Valette's arrangement does not impose landings in France at all, it is based on a fundamental principle in the law of the sea: the safest port is the nearest port. The sailors know what that means. It is not unusual to say that the safest port must be the nearest port. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM group]] If other safe places are to be considered, it is only on the basis of proposals made by States. There was therefore no question of imposing landings on France in Marseilles. We have indicated that we wish to reflect with other States, particularly those facing this issue of safe ports, on the arrangements for reception and financial responsibility. The idea is not to stay in treatment on a case-by-case basis, and to look for a predictable and organized system, i.e. more effective. Transparency on pathologies within the framework of the AME is one of the objectives of the inter-inspection mission that has been launched. We will therefore be able to make all the transparency in this matter. The inspectors have already told us that France is one of the few countries to report on the costs of care for foreigners in an irregular situation. This does not mean that other countries do not have such expenditure, of course, but France has chosen to have specific budgets. This is an interesting point to stress, while some people dispute our desire for transparency and accuse us of not wanting to raise the subject. On the contrary, the choice of budgetary techniques made by France allows us to identify the amounts spent on care for foreigners in an irregular situation much better than others. [[Laughs]] Mr Goasguen, you said that our discussions did not allow us to debate the strategy. I don't agree with you. I measured President Mélenchon's interest in you. I saw the Liberal you're joining in his analysis, the so-called neo-Marxist, President Mélenchon. Of course, you do not deduce the same things. I understand he didn't agree with your proposals. Your analysis of the phenomenon, however, is precisely in line with the objective we want to assign to this debate. It is not a question of discussing a technical measure but of discussing how to interpret and respond to these migratory phenomena.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u401	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u402	You mentioned, Mr Goasguen, the question of the control of expenditure on state medical aid. As the minister pointed out, we have put in place a mechanism that allows all these expenses to be passed through three caisses – those of Paris, Saint-Denis and Marseilles – and which will be effective on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u403	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u404	Instead of exploding the management of these funds, we want to centralise it so that we can follow it in detail and have instruments to combat possible abuses and frauds. This is a significant step forward. We are moving in the right direction in this direction. Finally, I would like to thank the speakers from all the groups, especially those who have described the reality of current immigration. President Lescure said: often debated, this phenomenon is often misinterpreted or misunderstood in its entirety, and often ignored in its individual reality. We all have our family, professional or political experiences in our constituencies. However, in the public debate, it is a step forward to give a face to immigration, to enable it to document its overall reality. A parliamentary debate must also serve that purpose. This debate is useful because it allows us to document, to exchange, to say a number of things. It will obviously have to be followed by action. Some avenues have been identified, some measures have been mentioned by the ministers present. For measures that require legislative or regulatory translation, future legislation will need to be used. In line with the strategy we have presented, we will be able to translate our decisions into action and document the effects they produce, measure by measure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Claude Goasguen also applauds]] The President of the Republic wished this debate to be annual. Each year, perhaps at the same time, Parliament will be able to look at the development of the situation, precisely documented. This exercise of transparency in the public debate can only be useful to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u405	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1012.u406	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-two fifteen: Further consideration of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
