ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of Mr Moetai Brotherson's bill and several of his colleagues to strengthen the integrity of elected office and national representation (No. 788, 1701).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u3	The GDR Group's proposal which we are considering today has been submitted to the Council of State, in accordance with Article 4 bis of the Ordinance of 17 November 1958, under which the President of a parliamentary assembly may refer a proposal for a law to the Council of State, prior to its consideration in committee, if the author does not object. We welcome this and urge that this procedure, introduced by the 2008 constitutional reform, be used more often. In its 2017 public report, the Council of State points out that, of the 1,376 pieces of legislation that it has reviewed as part of its advisory activity, 111 were bills and only three of the bills. Yet, far from muzzling it, law often enlightens politics on the way forward and reminds us that politics is more often a maieutic of means than an art of ends. Who cannot adhere to the objective of this text to "strengthen the integrity of elected mandates and national representation"? How can we not subscribe to this noble ambition? We all want – it is a presupposition – to strengthen the guarantees of probity and integrity of the holders of government or elected office. Our majority and the Bureau of the National Assembly have shown in an unprecedented way their concern for the ethics and exemplaryness of elected officials, a concern that they have put at the heart of their action. According to the explanatory memorandum, this bill is part of the extension of the law of 15 September 2017 for confidence in public life, the first major law of the legislature and the quinquennium of Emmanuel Macron, which committed itself, during the presidential campaign, to making the restoration of the bond of trust between the citizens asking for and political agents a prerequisite for the continuation of the reforms. Members of the majority are particularly proud to have supported this text, which has complemented the rules of ethics and financial transparency imposed on public officials, in particular by extending the supplementary penalty of ineligibility in the case of crimes or offences involving breaches of probity. We note, which may be paradoxical, that the group to which you belong, the rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, abstained during the vote on the organic and ordinary laws of 15 September 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u4	We did not vote against!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u5	We are sceptical about the means that the text proposes in order to strengthen the guarantees of integrity, namely the extension of the duration of the mandatory supplementary penalty of ineligibility – prolongation which can go up to life in case of repetition. As the Conseil d'État points out, "such an approach cannot be based on an assessment of the application of recent laws that have not yet been applied by the criminal courts, so that it is possible to question the need to change again the regime of the mandatory supplementary penalty of ineligibility shortly after the adoption of the law of 15 September 2017". It also reminds us that it is up to us parliamentarians to discuss the advisability of this text, which we do not fail to do. I am referring to the rule of law as reflected in the above-mentioned law and in article 131-26-2 of the Penal Code which it has created. The additional penalty of ineligibility is now mandatory for any person who is guilty of a crime or of any of the offences related, inter alia, to physical integrity, sexual assault, moral harassment, discrimination, fraud, abuse of trust, acts of terrorism, breaches of public confidence, breaches of the duty of probity, obstruction of justice, electoral fraud, illegal financing of political life, tax evasion, violations of the rules of transparency of political life, or association of criminals. The introduction, initially envisaged, of an electoral incapacity for any person whose judicial bulletin refers to a conviction for one or more of these offences has come up against the principle of individualization of penalties. The penalty of compulsory ineligibility is a maximum of ten years, which is severe with regard to the quantum of penalties applicable to some of the listed offences, as noted by the Council of State. According to him, the raise to thirty years you are planning does not appear "clearly disproportionate to the purpose of the bill." On the other hand, the imposition of a life sentence in the event of multiple offences breaks this proportionality of penalties, because some of the offences to which you refer, ladies and gentlemen, are too weakly punished by the Code. Take the example of an elected official who, in violation of Article 26 of the Law of 11 October 2013 on the transparency of public life, would not communicate to the HATVP – High Authority for the transparency of public life – the information requested by the High Authority and, as such, would be sentenced to one year's imprisonment, after having already been sentenced to the same penalty under Article L. 241-3 of the Commercial Code for having overvalued a contribution in kind to a family society. This elected official could be sentenced to life ineligibility. Do such offences deserve perpetual banishment? The Council of State suggests a better graduation of the penalty of ineligibility. We share his analysis. Moreover, there is room for question: the ineligibility for life, which has given rise to many proposals for many years – proposals which, for the first of them, came rather from the other side of the House, I would even say to the exact opposite – is it an effective penalty to promote the probity of representatives and holders of government office? In my view, it is up to the political party to which the person already sentenced to ineligibility is attached and who has served his sentence, to assume his responsibilities by no longer granting him a nomination for elections, unless he takes full responsibility for this act, which falls within the scope of the selection of political personnel, and therefore of his prerogatives. If a former elected official, deprived of his or her civil rights, wished to regain the confidence of his or her fellow citizens after regaining his or her electoral integrity, if he or she did not have a well-tested morality, he or she would be doubly accountable to his or her constituents. Beyond these considerations, which some might consider secondary, I believe, like Anticor, who has also been consulted, that it is important to strengthen the certainty of the sentence rather than to increase its severity. Indeed, according to the association, in 2016, of the 252 convictions for breach of probity, 169 were sentenced to imprisonment, including 38 farms for all or part of them, with an average quantity of firm imprisonment slightly greater than one year. A fine was also imposed in 110 convictions for an average amount of around 9100 euros. Of the 144 additional sentences handed down for convictions of offences against probity, nine are sentences of ineligibility. In the case of corruption, 72 convictions have been subject to additional penalties, of which two are sentences of ineligibility. Obviously, it's very little. The Act of 15 September 2017 aims precisely to intensify the imposition of the various penalties relating to some 40 offences corresponding to all violations of the duties of integrity, probity and exemplaryness to which any political representative is held. It is therefore necessary to allow time for this law to be fully applied and for disputes to be settled. It will then be possible to assess its application, as provided for in Rule 145-7 of our Rules of Procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] After a period of three years following the entry into force of the law, two deputies, one of whom belongs to an opposition group, may submit an impact assessment report to the Law Commission. It will be up to the Law Commission's office to anticipate that the 2017 law will be the subject of such an evaluation report. I am confident that your group, Mr rapporteur, will participate fully in this report. We count on your contribution to the evaluation of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u6	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u7	We are discussing today the strengthening of the integrity of elected mandates. Who wouldn't subscribe to it? This title, in strong terms and with a clear idea, has the support of all. Indeed, our democracy needs probes and integrity. As for those whose honesty would not be the first of the virtues, it is necessary that they be punished to the correct extent of their actions. Yet, beyond its evocative title, this bill calls for many remarks and reservations. First of all, we can question the advisability of such a text in several ways. Indeed, the laws of moralization of public life are recent and the mechanisms introduced have not yet been fully implemented and evaluated. Any changes therefore seem premature. The accumulation of legislation and legislative instability undermine the clarity of the law. Moreover, while it was necessary to establish rules of ethics and transparency, the constant return to the subject created a climate of constant suspicion towards elected officials. At a time when anti-parliamentarianism is raging, it does not seem to us welcome to further energize it. I would also like to point out here that not all of us are guilty because of the fault of a few. Secondly, there are real legal difficulties with this text. Although the opinion of the Council of State did not identify any constitutional obstacles, it remains that this bill is legally stumbling down on several points. It is a great pity that the amendments proposed by the rapporteur in committee to take account of the comments made by the Council of State have all been rejected. That was regrettable, since the latter allowed the text to be clarified and made more legally sound. The proposal therefore has the same shortcomings as those pointed out in committee. With regard to article 1, the desire to increase penalties did not raise any major opposition. However, it seems difficult to understand the consistency of the ineligibility for life: this penalty could be incurred for the cumulation of two offences with low penalties, whereas a crime, although more severely punished, could only result in the imposition of a supplementary penalty of ineligibility of up to 30 years. The conditions for recovery should also be better defined. Article 2 introduces an important new feature by creating an aggravating circumstance relating to the performance of a member of the Government or an elected office during the infringement. From a purely legal point of view, two main problems can be raised here: what are the offences for which the status of elected representative is already a constituent element? What about the determination of the penalty resulting from the aggravating circumstance? Finally, there is one point that I will dwell on at length: we need to reflect on the profound meaning of this bill. This text actually raises the fundamental, and not new, question of how to punish elected officials who have committed an offence. The movement to penalise political life dates back about 30 years. Through the creation of specific offences and penalties, criminal law has invested the political field to strengthen the rule of law and ensure that no one is above the law. The offence committed by an elected official or a member of the government is more far-reaching in that it does not harm a single victim but the nation as a whole by breaking the democratic pact that binds it to it. Since the 1990s, several laws have endeavoured to take this specificity into account. Today, a solid framework seems to be in place. Therefore, the real challenge is to enforce the existing law. As was pointed out at the hearings on this bill, the effectiveness of positive law must take precedence. The legislative arsenal is already considerable. It is not a question of wanting more and more, but of actually applying the texts. This second solution seems to be more effective in encouraging each to be exemplary. I understand, of course, the objective here, but we do not restore confidence in political life by making criminal law more severe. The growing difficulties in relations between representatives and represented by increased penalties are not solved. Today it is impunity that is burdensome. Too often, the facts in question are prescribed or very difficult to prove. A minority enjoys indulgence and pass-rights. It is on this point that we must act. Increasing penalties will not make criminal law more effective. The most shocking is not the quantum of sentences, but the fact that they are so often not imposed or not applied. The solution therefore does not lie in the suggestions made by the authors of this bill. Moreover, article 2 raises fundamental questions of substance: is the elected official a citizen like any other when he or she commits an offence outside the scope of his or her duties? Or should his duty of exemplaryness be so unfailing that one can make his status an aggravating circumstance? Are there different degrees of ethics? The answers are shared and can all be agreed, because, in reality, criminal law is often a case-by-case matter. The desire to offer the judge a new range of sanctions is commendable and the exclusion of political life would be a strong symbolic measure, but all this risks remaining a dead letter. This will not be more dissuasive if it is still not implemented, and our citizens will not be more reassured. The punishment of elected officials for their criminally reprehensible acts is a difficult issue, given the place and function they occupy in our democracy. We believe that the journey on this subject is in the right direction, and we will always be on the side of those who wish to progress towards more ethics and exemplaryness. However, beyond this objective, you will understand, the IDU Group, Action and Independents remain sceptical about this text and the procedures proposed therein. That is why we will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u8	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u9	On all these benches, we share the desire to raise our Republic to the highest level of international standards in the field of transparency and the fight against corruption. This guiding principle is necessary, and one wishes, quite rightly, to establish an unconditional example of elected officials and, more broadly, of public decision-makers. This is all the more necessary as an exacerbated anti-parliamentarianism has been expressed in recent months. We must provide firm and assured answers. The French' distrust of their political representatives has reached a historic level that must alert us. According to the barometer of political confidence established each year by the CEVIPOF, the political research centre of Sciences Po, the French have never expressed such a distrust towards their institutions and the actors of democratic life. If it is not new, the finding is particularly severe. In this context, the Socialist and Related Group understands the intention of the authors of the bill. It aims to strengthen the penalties for ineligibility imposed on elected officials, the maximum of which is currently set at five years for offences and ten years for crimes. French and French people regularly feel that there is a two-speed justice system in our country. This feeling is not new, far from it. "Depending on whether you will be powerful or miserable..." wrote Jean de La Fontaine in the 17th century. We must be wary of what is felt, because it does not always correspond to a reality. However, there is a feeling. It feeds the rejection of everything that makes system and feeds anti-parliamentarianism, which affects all, or few, elected ones. Our democracy suffers, it is undeniable, from this rejection of the elected ones, and we must do everything in our power to restore the sometimes broken link between the people and their elected ones. During the previous legislature, we have made real progress in terms of transparency in public and political life. In 2015, we passed legislation on the transparency of public life. We have created an obligation for elected officials to declare their heritage status and to provide a declaration of interest within two months of their election. Above all, we have created the High Authority for the transparency of public life. As many as 14,000 people are now subject to the transparency regime established at that time. These flagship measures are not necessarily an end in themselves, and improvements are still needed. A year later, we passed the law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life. We are firmly opposed to the idea of two-speed justice. That's why your bill is more perplexed. Admittedly, an elected person must not enjoy any privilege because of his status, we all agree, but it would not be normal for this elected status to become an aggravating circumstance either. We are in favour of the same treatment of all citizens, whether elected or not. Therefore, we find that the angle of attack of this bill is low. Article 1e (r) is intended to punish an elected person or a member of the Government for a very serious offence which is clearly incompatible with the position held for a term of 30 years. For some crimes, the judge would be able to impose a life sentence of ineligibility. If we appreciate that this is left to the discretion of the judge, we find that this distinction between citizens according to their profession or function, in this case that of elected, would de facto create a two-speed justice. Article 2 seeks to create an aggravating circumstance for offences or crimes committed by an elected official or a member of the Government. This aggravating circumstance would apply to offences listed in the Act for confidence in political life: infringement of the physical or psychological integrity of the person, discrimination, fraud, abuse of trust, act of terrorism, breach of the duty of probity, electoral fraud, tax fraud, infringement of the legislation on the financing of political life, failure to declare to the High Authority. While it is understandable for offences specific to elected officials such as failure to declare to the High Authority, it raises, in other cases, the question of equal treatment before the courts. Let us take an example, certainly a bit caricatural: two citizens are condemned for having harmed a person's physical integrity; They are both found guilty of violence resulting in total incapacity for work for more than eight days. A sentence of ineligibility is imposed against the first, because he is elected from a municipality. This is not the case for the second, who decides to go into politics and, for example, to run for a regional election. This person, found guilty of the same facts but not elected at the time of his conviction, would thus be eligible, while the other person would no longer be eligible, because elected at the time of his conviction. It wouldn't make sense. We have already had this debate during the examination of the law for confidence in political life, which has created a quasi-automaticity of the penalty of ineligibility for certain offences and crimes. The Socialist and Related Group calls for the introduction of a clear criminal record obligation for elected officials. In February 2017, the National Assembly adopted a proposal for an organic law to this effect, which came from the majority. Unfortunately, the colour of the majority has changed, and this organic bill is still waiting for it to be placed on the Senate Orders of the Day. The President of the Republic had promised to introduce this obligation, but the Republic on the move preferred to step back. Today, in order to gain access to nearly 400 professions, our fellow citizens are asked not to have been the subject of any convictions listed in Bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record. Why would elected officials be treated differently? Why create a two-speed justice system when it would have been so simple to treat them like any citizen who wants to enter one of these 400 professions? The Socialist and Related Group would have liked to amend your bill to that effect. But since this is an ordinary law and not an organic law, we cannot do so. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] It is a pity that you have not chosen to reopen this debate as part of the discussion of your bill. You simply prefer to complete the text voted in August 2017, which is far from sufficient, we agree on this point. For all these reasons, the Socialist and related group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u10	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u11	As I have done in committee, I would like first of all to stress the quality of the work carried out by the rapporteur for the text, Mr Moetai Brother. It is rare enough to be noted and welcomed, and it has submitted the text which we are going to discuss to the Council of State for its opinion. We have therefore been able to work on the basis of very specific elements and recommendations. The rapporteur has taken up some of these recommendations. I come to the text itself. Despite a clear line of association with the law for confidence in political life, known as the "trust law", which we passed in 2017, and with the law on transparency of public life, passed by our predecessors, the group of the Democratic and Related Movement remains reserved. In July 2017, we adopted a system requiring the imposition of a 10-year sentence of ineligibility for any member of the Government or holding an elected office guilty of any of the crimes or offences referred to in article 131-26-2 of the Criminal Code. It is a list of some 40 offences, of varying nature and gravity, for which the addition of a supplementary penalty of ineligibility is fully justified, given the necessary exemplarity of elected officials. The proposal for a law that we are debating today aims to increase to 30 years the maximum of the mandatory supplementary penalty of ineligibility, or even to allow the imposition of a life sentence of ineligibility. The MODEM Group agrees with some of the observations made by the Council of State in this regard. In particular, we question two points. On the one hand, we wonder if it is appropriate to amend the confidence law now, given the small setbacks that we have at our disposal. The provision I have quoted has never been applied to date. As stated by the Council of State in its opinion, there is currently no assessment or judicial decision that could lead us to reconsider the provisions of the confidence law. On the other hand, as we have stated in committee, we cannot give our full support to this bill because of the provisions of section 2. As it stands, this article tends to make the exercise of a government mandate or function an aggravating circumstance. However, it seems to us difficult to create an aggravating circumstance which is unrelated to the offence concerned. In addition, for certain offences, with the wording you propose, you would make one of the constituent elements of the offence an aggravating circumstance, which poses a legal problem. The MODEM Group therefore favours the deletion of Article 2. Despite these reservations, the MODEM Group welcomed this text with great interest, as it raises again the question of the probity of persons exercising a government mandate or function. In the context we have known for several years, we cannot ignore this issue. Our group, I repeat, welcomed this text with great interest. He took the opportunity to table an amendment, which had already been defended in the course of the discussions on the confidence law, aimed at making persons convicted of tax fraud ineligible, even when they were not formed into an organized band and had not opened a bank account abroad, set up a front company or used false documents. This scheme, drawn up by our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky, aims to broaden the scope of offences punishable by quasi-automatic ineligibility, when committed by an elected official or a member of the Government. As you see, Mr rapporteur, we share your desire for greater exemplaryness and less opacity. The probity that you call of your wishes is indispensable on the part of elected officials and members of the Government. Your text has the merit of prompting us to further develop our reflections on these subjects and to foster an ever greater ambition in this field. However, the proposed law in its current version does not win the support of the MODEM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u12	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u13	This text, which will be supported by the Group of the European People's Party, was probably born out of an observation: our country is going through a very serious democratic crisis, marked by a strong discredit on the part of the political class. That is the point that I will be developing, without moving away from the bill. Undoubtedly, regardless of our appreciation of them, the contestation of yellow vests or other social movements seem to reflect the decrease or even the total disappearance of consent to authority. They reveal a defiance on which we must constantly question ourselves, because we must find a way of reconnecting the indispensable link between our fellow citizens – the people – and those who have been mandated to act on his behalf. There are many clues to the phenomenon, starting with abstention, which must never remain in the blind corner of our analyses. When the people do not move to election meetings, we must not consider that they had only to come, but ask us why they did not, why they think this important act has become useless. If we want confidence to return and political representatives to be more inclusive, we must also question the conditions for the functioning of our electoral system. Today, we cannot trivialize the fact that our institutions give a lot of power to representatives elected by a minority of voters. That is an essential point. If, more and more, our citizens are won by anger, it is because they no longer feel represented by their elected representatives. This feeling is not illegitimate, since they have not been designated by the majority. It is this problem that we must tackle. The democratic imperative requires exemplaryness. The elected must be accountable to the people, who must remain sovereign. However, one cannot work to restore integrity in political life without questioning the deep crisis facing the institutions of the Fifth Republic. Laws to moralize political life are certainly tools, but they will be of no help to us if we save more general thought. Let us seize the opportunity to recall the necessary republican virtue. What is virtue, if not the will to act for the general interest, for the common good? I repeat: we must forge new institutions together. You know our plan. We want a Constituent Assembly to put down the current institutions that keep the people at a distance, or that allow us to satisfy ourselves that they no longer come to vote, because they are convinced – on the basis of verifiable facts – that their elected representatives will not implement their programme. I do not deny that some moralization measures have been taken. The Cahuzac case would at least have had the benefit of changing the legislation. The 2013 Law on the Transparency of Public Life created an obligation to declare interests for public officials and gave birth to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life. The cumulation of mandates is now prohibited. But these measures are very inadequate. I'm sorry to say that they sometimes even make up smoke screens. Thus, the means available to the High Authority may not allow it to carry out all the checks. Nevertheless, we are moving slowly towards more probity. Many international organizations, including Transparency International, observed that in France, many elected officials had been convicted after the enactment of laws to moralize public life. Without polemic will and without turning it into a personal affair, I solemnly affirm in this forum that the President of the National Assembly took a wrong decision by appointing Alain Juppé to the Constitutional Council. He could very well, after his conviction and after having served his sentence, stand for election. He was mayor of Bordeaux. All right! I don't think a penalty should be applied for the rest of my life. But the Constitutional Council is supposed to be an assembly of wise men, who must rise up and deserve the trust of our fellow citizens. Their actions are aimed at respect for the law. That is why I find such an appointment questionable. Finally, I would like to point out that the citizens' initiative referendum is probably the strongest tool available to citizens to control elected officials. Unfortunately, you have rejected it recently, when, through a parliamentary niche, we proposed that you adopt it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In any event, we will support the bill, but we believe that it needs to be improved and enriched by providing citizens with an opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u14	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u15	First of all, I thank our rapporteur for proposing this text, which allows us to reflect on an important question: the relationship that the elected representative must have with virtue, probity, equality, which we have been talking about for over two hours. In preparing my speech and listening to you, colleagues, I asked myself. Throughout the day, the opposition members criticized the majority for preventing the debate. However, on each of the texts, the general discussion lasted two to three hours. Does this not offer us an opportunity to express and hear certain opinions? If it has no value, we can just as well delete it. But then we will be accused of banning any discussion. It is best to consider that this stage of the debate offers an opportunity for a real exchange. Maybe I'll come back if I have time. I would stress two points: whether or not the elected representatives must have a blank criminal record and how the people are currently looking at their probity. On the first point, I agree with you, Mr rapporteur. As you recalled, Emmanuel Macron wrote on page 27 of his programme that the candidates in the elections presented by En march would have a blank criminal record. In order to be on his list, we had to prove that we had never been convicted. We're probably not alone. Other parties proceeded in the same way. But if, of course, we agree with a measure that we have applied to ourselves, we can ask ourselves whether it belongs to the legislative field. Why would the parties not simply adopt it as a rule of good functioning? Why not let the people – whom some claim to embody better than others – take precedence over movements whose candidates have a blank criminal record? The legislator I am considers that it is sometimes necessary to let the movements organize themselves, show their good will and then ask the people to position themselves with legitimacy. This refers us to other questions. We all know that some multi-condemned elected officials – I will not mention any names – have also been re-elected. Will we be more royalistic than the king, or rather more rigorous than the people, by prohibiting him from electing the candidates that please him? Rather, let us ask ourselves whether each movement should not establish its own rules based on its own convictions, and allow the people to express themselves. The second issue – the people's report to the elected one – has been addressed several times. I have been working with elected officials since 1992 and, since then, I have been hearing the slogan "All rotten! When I took my initial training as a technician and then as an engineer, everyone called for more transparency in public life. But on all these benches, you, like ourselves when we passed the law for confidence in political life, have always sought more transparency. In doing so, the elected representatives have only fed an ogre who feeds on all these texts. Whenever a new law is presented to him, he says, instead of thanking us, "You see I was right! "And he interprets our vote as a confession. Far from satisfying this ogre, we will only be able to sharpen his appetite. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We must continue to work together, regardless of the benches on which we sit. Let's look at how to fight the myth of "All rotten." Perhaps we will come to an end not by texts but by practices, by adopting logics based on common work and mutual respect. Indeed, if we do not respect each other, how would the people respect us?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u16	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u17	The bill puts on the agenda of the parliamentary debate a crucial issue: the integrity and exemplaryness of elected officials and members of the Government. Article 1 seeks to increase the additional penalty of ineligibility which may be imposed by a judge against a person who, at the time of the commission of the offence, exercises the function of a member of the Government or a public elective office, to up to thirty years, or even to extend it to the whole of life, when a crime follows or accompanies the commission of another crime or other offence. Legal certainty is obviously added to this measure: any person who has been sentenced to life imprisonment or to imprisonment for more than 10 years may apply to the sentencing judge every 10 years for a reduction or termination of the sentence. Article 2 tends to subject elected officials to a more severe penal regime. Article 3 is intended to make the text applicable to all French territories. When we read the bill, we were unable to think about what we heard on the roundabouts. According to those we met there, the elected representatives are not always the most honest. It is a tenacious cliché that, regardless of our political group, we have a great deal of difficulty in fighting, as many cases remain in mind. However, the integrity of elected officials is a crucial issue for two reasons. Increasing mistrust tends to spread among our fellow citizens. Many have no confidence in the elect, let them look with suspicion. They think that if such a case does not advance, it is because an elected official has a personal interest in holding it back. On the other hand, we encounter a question of ethics. Whether our fellow citizens trust us or not, we cannot dispense with a strong requirement of integrity and probity, because being elected means having a mandate, it is carrying something that is greater than yourself. During the debate on the bill to moralize public life, we have tabled many amendments in line with the bill. They were obviously rejected. They were designed to make elected officials convicted of corruption ineligible for life, to ban slippers or to subject members of ministerial cabinets to more extensive transparency checks. There were also amendments that we had already tabled in the past. In addition to the bill under discussion, other texts come to mind. The questions of the yellow vests I heard in my permanence made me understand several things. Many people think that in the National Assembly we receive lobbyists who decide which amendments we table or vote on. I know that for many of us such practices are excluded. We do not submit to the weight of the lobby, but what answer do those who think it is the lobbyists who write your amendments, decide your vote and, in fact, pass the laws? How can we make people understand that we, the deputies of the Republic, do not suffer this, do not accept this? The bill provides us with an opportunity to reflect on this and provide answers to all those who believe that there can be no honest elected officials. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] The subject of integrity will never be exhausted, because corrupters do not recede in front of anything, and when laws change, methods change in the same way. It is up to all of us, on all benches, regardless of our label, to push them back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u18	The general discussion is closed. I call Mr Moetai Brotherson, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u19	I thank all the colleagues who have spoken. I would have liked this discussion to continue, but a motion for referral to committee has been tabled. On the basis of the recommendations of the Council of State, we have drawn up serious amendments aimed at remedying the imperfections of the text which you have highlighted in your speeches. For example, in Article 1, you pointed out the disproportion between the punishment of a number of offences, which may extend to life ineligibility, and the punishment of certain crimes, punishable to the maximum by an additional penalty of 30 years of ineligibility. We have tabled amendments to remedy this difficulty. In addition, I have heard a comment – which joins a comment by the Council of State – on the recovery that a person sentenced to a term of ineligibility of more than ten years may seek every ten years. To go along the lines indicated by the Council of State, we have tabled an amendment aimed at introducing a time limit proportional to the actual quantity of the sentence. We have, I believe, taken into account all the comments made by the Council of State. I turn to the aggravating circumstance of being elected or a member of the Government, on which opinions differ. As we celebrate tomorrow's Women's Rights Day, we will of course all agree that violence against women is unacceptable. I believe, for my part, that they are even more so if they are made by an elected official. When I am invited to speak in schools, to speak to the children, I explain to them what the law is, what the values of the Republic are. How can I conceive that, if I violate these same principles, I am not condemned more heavily than a simple citizen? We enjoy enormous privileges, we represent our fellow citizens. As such, we have a duty of exemplaryness. This is, at least, my conception of things – but everyone has his own. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will see what happens to the motion for referral to committee. Our colleague Rémy Rebeyrotte had stated in the Committee on Laws that the vote on this motion would not be a closed door forever, but would be a commitment for the future. It is to be hoped that it will not be adopted, but if it does not, I hope that this would not mean a reference to the Greek calends, but rather a commitment to propose a timetable for work, to put the subject back on the table within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u20	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u21	I will not go back to the substance of the bill because I explained at length, earlier, the reasons why the Government was not in favour of it. However, I wanted to thank you, Mr Brotherson, for presenting this text, which promotes ethics and democracy. We share a number of your objectives, but for reasons of timing and legal reasons, I do not agree with the terms that you propose. I appreciated the atmosphere of respect that characterized this debate, both in your exchanges with each other and with the elected representatives, in general, as well as with the members of the Government. In the current period, we collectively need that state of mind. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and GDR groups]] I found that all the statements were remarkable in their manner and quality. The words used – 'probity', 'integrity', 'trust', 'virtual', 'common good', 'transparency', 'control', 'exemplarity' – are of a noble character – even if they sometimes referred, in an underlying way, to their antonyms. With these words, you have said what you feel deeply, starting with – I insist – the respect of the elected ones, which I thank you for. I believe that we share the desire to ensure the effectiveness of the rules laid down and to reflect on the continuous improvement of our practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u22	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u23	The purpose of this bill is to strengthen the requirement of integrity in the exercise of the mandates and functions of the members of the Government and of all elected officials – an objective that I believe we all agree with here. You suggest, Mr rapporteur, that the mandatory additional penalty of ineligibility imposed by the Act of 9 December 2016 be increased from 10 to 30 years for certain crimes and offences, the list of which was extended widely by the Act of 15 September 2017. Your text even provides for a penalty of ineligibility for life if the offence follows or accompanies the commission of another of these offences. In addition, you are proposing a special rehabilitation scheme that can be requested every ten years. The Council of State has received your bill from the President of the National Assembly. While in its opinion the administrative court does not consider most of the proposed arrangements unconstitutional, it stresses the risk of legislative inflation in the area concerned. The Council of State considers that "it is permissible to question [...] the advisability of changing the regime of the mandatory supplementary penalty of ineligibility so soon after its entry into force" and so little time, I will add, after its enlargement to new crimes and offences. First of all, it is necessary to assess the existing system, the number of sentences handed down, their effectiveness, after the length of proceedings and investigations. However, we do not yet have statistical data for 2017 and 2018. The 2017 law, which, as Mrs. the Keeper of the Seals pointed out, dealt with many other aspects of the moralization of political life – the exercise of parliamentary mandates, the hiring of collaborators, the financing of political life, to name but a few – was only useful in clarifying the December 2016 law by expanding the list of crimes and offences concerned – a list that could also be reopened according to the results of the evaluation. However, if your text were adopted, the balance of sentences would be called into question before any evaluation, as you go so far as to propose a lifetime ineligibility. While the Council of State did not object to this principle, it stressed the need to apply and evaluate the laws of 2016 and 2017 in practice. To use a trivial expression, it encourages us not to engage in a "chalote race" in criminal matters and to stabilize the law, especially for judges and the legal profession as a whole. It is important that the law not be revised every twelve or twenty-four months, which would give, at each stage, the impression of a virtual text, for communication purposes. At this stage, the La République group on the move, you will understand, is not in favour of this bill. We will therefore vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee. In doing so, we intend to stress the value and usefulness of the work of the rapporteur and the opinion of the Council of State, which could be taken up, if necessary, if the evaluation revealed the need to strengthen positive law. Your text also raises other questions, which we have considered quite legitimate in our discussions – and which the Council of State has considered as such – including the link between ineligibility and other criminal convictions, or the raising of the sentence. I thank you for the seriousness of your approach and the quality of the work done in committee, but for the time being it is necessary to ensure the stability of the law and to apply the provisions in force. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I thank the rapporteur once again for the important work he has done. I also thank the President of the National Assembly for having referred the matter to the Council of State for its opinion at the request of President Chassaigne. All of this work could, sooner or later, be useful if we were to set ourselves higher goals – goals than we all share – and strengthen positive law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u24	In the explanations of vote on the motion to refer the matter to committee, Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u25	I thank the minister and the various speakers for the tone they have given to this debate – in this regard I fully agree with the view of the seal keeper. Even if, contrary to what you have done for our other bills, you have not tabled a motion on this bill to reject it beforehand, the GDR members regret that you have tabled a motion to refer it to committee and will oppose it. As a member of the Law Committee, I will ensure that the referral to committee is not a first-class burial and that the text is re-examined within a time frame that we will have to discuss. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] When I see that, in some large cities in France, people who have been sentenced to several years in prison nevertheless claim to stand for municipal elections – the deadline for which is approaching – I think that the bill presented by our colleague Moetai Brotherson has all its raison d'être. I will therefore take action to ensure that she returns to the law committee very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u26	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u27	I thank the rapporteur once again for his work, although we do not share all the aspects of the bill – in particular, we have reservations about Article 2. However, it seems to me that, thanks to the work you have done, Mr rapporteur, this text is quite successful. Therefore, we do not see why we would refuse to discuss it. Contrary to what some of our colleagues have said, a general discussion is not a debate – we will have the opportunity to come back to it during the discussions on the reform of our House – but it is an exhibition of the views of the groups, of the Members. The parliamentary debate, which we have been somewhat deprived of today, as unfortunately happens for a number of niches, means another thing, namely the discussion of the articles and amendments. We would have had the opportunity to do so. The members of the MODEM and related groups will not vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u28	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u29	We agree with the rapporteur on the importance of the subject. The question of the integrity of mandates is one of the priorities of the Government and the majority since, as you know, one of the first major texts voted in the summer of 2017 was the law for confidence in political life, which was intended to better guarantee the probity of elected officials. We have worked a great deal on this: you probably remember that the debates have been lengthy, bitter, and that not everyone agrees with our proposal to supplement and strengthen the rules of ethics and financial transparency applicable to public officials. We have gone to the end, and that is very good because it is the minimum that we owe to our fellow citizens. Today, can we go even further in terms of exemplaryness? We can certainly do so, without however falling into the pitfall of anti-parliamentarianism. However, we do not wish to add texts to the texts: we are not in favour of legislative inflation. Without minimising the question of probity, we can legitimately question the need to amend extremely recent rules which have not yet been evaluated, as the Council of State itself has pointed out. On the other hand, in addition to the somewhat technical and legal nature of certain provisions, the rapporteur is well aware that, during the hearings we have conducted, associations have stressed that it is not really necessary to increase the penalties incurred. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group proposes to refer this bill to committee. However, as Rémy Rebeyrotte said, we are not closing the door and we will take the time to make a real assessment of measures that we still consider too recent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u30	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u31	For the fourth time of the day, I am tempted to say, "Same motive, same punishment. Of course, the reason is not quite the same, since we are not discussing a motion to reject it beforehand, but a motion to refer it back to committee. On the substance, the work has been done, as the Council of State has validated the text. At this time of great national debate, it is a pity that we are not debating in our Chamber the proposals made by the opposition or minority groups. On behalf of the IUD Group, Action and Independents, I will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u32	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u33	I could almost paraphrase what our colleague Agnès Firmin Le Bodo said. It is always frustrating for a parliamentarian to be deprived of a debate. I have already expressed some reservations about this text, but they must not prevent us from going into the matter. We have not settled everything in previous laws – we know it very well and our fellow citizens remind us of it in the context of the great national debate, as I said earlier. I understand that on April 1, 2 and 3, we will have an exchange on the main themes of the major national debate. It would have been useful to prepare a little bit of the way by addressing this issue this evening. Everything has not been settled in the 2017 law for confidence in political life: there are still areas of shadow, that it would have been interesting to light up this evening with a flash in order to tackle our debates on April 1, 2 and 3 in better conditions. The Liberties and Territories Group, which I represent here tonight, will therefore not vote on this motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u34	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u35	I shall vote against the motion for referral back to committee for reasons that do not depend on the substance of the text. During the general discussion, I had the opportunity to explain my position of abstention, which is justified by the desire of the Socialist and related group to introduce a clear criminal record obligation for elected officials. It is with a view to favouring the debate that I shall vote against this motion for referral to committee. We regret once again that the majority has chosen to stay the debate by having motions for rejection or referral to committee adopted, without the slightest willingness to hold a debate worthy of the name. [[Mr. André Chassaigne and Ms. Elsa Faucillon applaud]] I welcome the proposals put forward by our colleagues in the GDR Group during this day: the restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF –, the increase of the SMIC and the removal of the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH. All these legislative proposals on matters discussed in our exchanges with our fellow citizens have been rejected by the majority, which unfortunately had nothing else to propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u36	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u37	[[Smile]] [[Mr. André Chassaigne and Ms. Elsa Faucillon applaud]] To the general astonishment, like the La France group, I shall vote against the motion for referral back to committee, simply because the debate must take place. The general discussion showed that there was something to say about this bill. In the current climate of distrust, I am not sure that the absence of debate helps to restore our confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u38	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the National Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for the further discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u39	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u40	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u41	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Elsa Faucillon and others in favour of transparency in the use of popular energy savings (No 1611, 1700).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u42	Mrs Elsa Faucillon, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u43	Everywhere, mobilizations are flourishing to give life to the hope of a win climate battle – let's say a more serene future. Citizen, political and student mobilizations all call for an end to inaction in the face of an assured disaster. We are taking too small steps in the face of a financial system that moves backwards and slows down the ecological revolution that we all have to lead. Over the past few months, more than 2 million people have committed themselves to supporting "the affair of the century", to forcing the state and the financial powers to finally act up to the stakes and to no longer be content with words with their hands on their hearts. The youth movement against the ecological disaster called for a school and student climate strike on March 15. The vision of these young people and their ambition for humanity must guide us tonight. People are mobilizing to compel public authorities to act. Forty months after the Paris climate agreement, we are unable to meet our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. We keep counting the dead and the sick from air pollution. Since COP21, institutional banks and investors, both public and private, have made commitments, but these have not been translated into reality. Reports by Oxfam France and Friends of the Earth, published last November, show that out of 10 euros of financing for energy from banks, 7 euros go to fossil fuels and 2 euros to renewable energies. Worse still, French banks have increased their support for companies providing for the construction of new coal-fired power plants by 52%. That is the power of the fossil industries. Green finance is now too often a communication measure and masks the continuation – sometimes even the acceleration – of fossil investments. I would like to acknowledge the role of whistleblowers that NGOs such as Attac or 350.org, economists, activists and citizens have played in this regard, which allowed us to discuss this issue here tonight. The International Energy Agency is warning us: in order to prevent global warming from exceeding 2 degrees, we must leave half of the oil and gas reserves and 80% of the coal reserves in their place in the soil by 2050. There is therefore an urgent need to reorient massively the investment that finances hydrocarbons. That must be a clear priority, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I am not even talking about the major risk, for the people, of instability in the financial system if the banks do not immediately redirect their financing towards assets condemned to devalorisation. This is the short-term logic of the financial actors, which even the Governor of the Bank of England, whom you may hear more than the Marxist I am, has called "tragedy of horizons". Everyone remembers what the rescue of the banks cost the community in 2008. Let us not allow such a scenario to happen again! Banks need to be discouraged from financing investments that are both harmful to the planet and likely to force governments to come to their aid – we have much better things to do! Investors must be faced with the immense responsibility that is theirs and compel their financial support to respect environmental requirements and the objective of leaving fossil fuels. To this end, my bill proposes two levers: regulated savings, the use of which must be fully in line with the objectives of energy transition – it can no longer be tolerated for use in opacity and against the general interest – and transparency measures on climate-related risks, on which France was a pioneer with article 173 of the 2015 law on the energy transition for green growth, which must now target investments in fossil fuels more directly. These two levers illustrate strong democratic challenges. Booklet A and the Sustainable and Solidarity Development Booklet – LDDS – are the main support for popular savings, with an outstanding amount of more than 380 billion euros. These resources do not adequately finance the ecological transition. Last December, the Minister of Economy and Finance himself spoke of the LDDS as "deceived goods." Article 1 concerns the stock of these books remaining on the balance sheet of banks and not centralized at the Caisse des dépôts et consignation – CDC – which represents more than 150 billion euros. The law already provides for specific employment cases, but the December 2008 decree setting the minimum outstanding loan ratios from these resources does not provide for a regulatory total of 100 per cent and leaves banks with a margin that is now considered counterproductive because it is insufficient for energy saving work. This article also opens the way for more transparency on the use of these funds by providing detailed information to Parliament. We also propose to give the regulated savings observatory a real evaluation competence in this area. Article 3 concerns centralised resources with the CDC, whose outstanding amounts at the end of 2017 amounted to 245 billion euros, of which 62 billion were for the LDDS alone. While 70 per cent of the savings fund does finance long-term loans in the areas of social housing, land support and environmental transition, the remaining 30 per cent of the savings fund is at stake, making up the financial portfolio. We propose the complete disengagement of this segment of the savings fund from companies that extract and exploit fossil fuels. The aim is to provide the CDC with a credible threat of disinvestment. To this end, the Finance Committee has adopted an amendment which provides that the CDC's Supervisory Board shall submit annually to Parliament a report setting out this strategy. The second focus of the bill is to establish fully effective transparency measures for all financial actors on fossil energy investments. The current provisions of Article 173 of the Law on Energy Transition for Green Growth provide that, in their annual reports, institutional investors provide information on how they take climate change risks into account and contribute to the objectives of limiting warming. This pioneering approach has two weaknesses: it is exclusively voluntary, according to the logic of "apply or explain", and focuses on the definition of overly complex indicators of climate impact of investments. The risk of green alibi is proven. The Autorité des marchés financiers – AMF – has, for example, identified investment funds that highlight subsets of funds active in the ecological transition but that ignore other subsets of funds that fund the development of fossil fuels. Without genuine transparency on harmful financial activities in the context of the environmental challenges we face, we will not be able to achieve credible objectives. As far as banks are concerned, Article 2 establishes an obligation of transparency in a section of the Monetary and Financial Code on prudential provisions. These measures must now include climate-related risks. I will propose amendments to make this transparency as precise, comprehensive and effective as possible, extending it to the activities of market financing services and strengthening, in the event of non-compliance, the sanctioning power of the Supervisory Authority. I will also propose that you introduce the same transparency obligations for insurance activities, which are directly exposed to the effects of climate change, but which themselves contribute to warming. Finally, Article 4 makes it possible to reach all institutional investors, including life insurance. Four years after the adoption of section 173, a new intervention by the legislator is far from premature. Indeed, contrary to the provisions of a decree of December 2015, the Government has still not carried out a three-year review of the application of the law. The pretexts for inaction are both easy and numerous. Many have once again been revealed in the Committee on Finance's examination of our text. In the end, the priority would be to wait. Wait again! Wait for new balance sheets to be added to the old reports. Wait for the Government to update regulations, as if the inertia of the ministries should curb the parliamentary initiative. Expect action by Europe, as if strong initiatives by Member States were not able to influence actions at international level. Still wait, on the ground that the bill comes from a parliamentary opposition group, as if these considerations could loyally hinder interests as superior as our collective survival. We tell you again: we no longer have time to wait. Even today, hundreds of people gathered in front of our walls to support this text: outside, citizens are waiting. Young people are mobilizing to ensure that this world in shreds is not their burden. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that your only response to this mobilisation will not once again be a call for patience which we consider mortifying.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u44	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u45	First of all, let me reiterate my conviction, which is also that of the entire Government: the success of the energy transition requires the strengthening of green finance. It is this conviction that guides our action to green French finance – and not just popular savings – for almost two years. I will briefly go back to the main projects we have carried out. I'm thinking first of all of Climate Finance Day. This event dedicated entirely to the greening of finance was held for the first time in 2017. On that occasion, we made strong commitments, all of which were fulfilled. The first is the strengthening of our equivalent obligation of the Treasury – OAT – green which, with an outstanding amount of EUR 15 billion, is the largest outstanding of this type in the world. The second is the implementation of the climate charter for public investors: in 2017, all public institutional investors, representing nearly €600 billion of investments, committed to integrating the climate dimension into their investment policies. The third commitment, which is most important to me, is to allow the French to mobilize their savings for the climate. We are therefore committed to ensuring that all new investments of savers in the CDC's centralized sustainable development and solidarity booklets go exclusively to green investments. All the new flows of the LDDS centralized in the Savings Fund will now be destined to finance green jobs. We have also included important measures in the PACTE law – an action plan for business growth and transformation – which will soon come back to your assembly at second reading. We even discussed last night with some of you the integration of the ecological and energy transition into units of account and the introduction of transparent reporting on this for savers. I am thinking of what we are doing to green life insurance which, with 1700 billion euros outstanding, is by far the preferred investment of the French: from 2022 onwards, all life insurance contracts will have to offer green, solidary and responsible units of account. I am also thinking of strengthening the powers of the Autorité des marchés financiers with regard to climate reporting. Finally, I am thinking of the introduction of environmental issues in the management of all companies. Of course, we can and must go further in enhancing transparency in green finance. In this respect, we are progressing first at European level. As you know, the European Commission proposed last May a package to green finance, which aims to increase transparency on climate risks and to develop tools to build green financial products, such as a taxonomy of green activities. France fully supports the work of the European Commission and we have been mobilised for many months to achieve rapid adoption of this climate package. At the national level, we will also take stock of article 173 of the Energy Transition Act, which requires insurance companies to publish an annual report on their consideration of environmental, social and good governance criteria. We are therefore ad hoc in meeting our commitments. This evaluation will lead to a Government report in the course of the six-month period. We will then be able to draw the consequences and consider, if necessary, adjustments to the reporting obligations applicable to the financial sector. We will involve parliamentarians in this work. The bill we are discussing is a good opportunity to deepen our common thinking, particularly on the issue of popular savings. I would like to thank the GDR Group, and in particular the Member of Parliament for the Hauts-de-Seine, Elsa Faucillon. I also thank the majority group and Bénédicte Peyrol for making a constructive contribution through its amendments. This session allows us to start the debate on a major topic and I am sure that we will still have many opportunities to continue our discussions and to continue to put finance at the service of the energy transition. With these elements in mind, I would now like to return briefly to the four sections of this bill. Your article 1e r sets out the rules for the use of the funds in Book A and the LDDS kept by banks. First, you want the non-centralised resources of regulated savings to be used exclusively for the purposes defined in this article. I would like to recall that the outstanding loans from banks to SMEs were more than twice as high as the non-centralised stocks of regulated savings in 2017. On the other hand, the Regulated Savings Observatory considers that the obligation to allocate 10% of non-centralised funds to the financing of energy saving work in old buildings is generally respected. You then request that a quarterly report on the jobs in Booklet A and the LDDS be submitted to Parliament. This would be complex and costly, and I am not sure that this would be very useful, because the Regulated Savings Observatory is already issuing an annual report on this subject, which is addressed to Parliament. On the other hand, it is desirable that this annual report be enriched with respect to sustainable jobs, since the PACTE bill now states that non-centralised savings can be allocated to all projects "that contribute to the energy transition or to the reduction of the climate footprint". Article 2 seeks to introduce a transparency obligation on bank loans and financial participations for hydrocarbon and coal-related activities, country by country. The Government strongly supports the integration of climate risk into the typology of financial risks for credit institutions and investment firms. We are working on this, moreover, at European level: it is the principle of the CRD V Directive on regulatory own funds – in English: "Capital requirements directive" – which is currently being discussed in a trialogue, that is, at a relatively advanced stage in the process of its approval. Its goal is simple and ambitious: it is to force supervisors to analyze the profile of each institution in the light of its environmental, social and governance risks – ESG – and hence climate risks. So we share the spirit of your article, but here we have a calendar problem. To speak in good French, imposing a reporting in the law would preempt the ongoing discussions at European level on sustainable finance. With Article 3, you want to prohibit the use of moneys from Book A and LDDS centralized in the savings fund to finance activities for the exploration and exploitation of fossil fuels. Such a clarification is not at the level of the law and I am not sure that strict application of this principle is desirable. The CDC has long excluded groups that account for more than 10% of their coal turnover. On the other hand, it does not exclude oil and gas companies – I would remind you that the CDC is, in particular, a significant shareholder of French energy companies. Total, for example, is the company most committed to the development of the electric battery in France: should we exclude it from the investments of the Caisse des dépôts? Require the CDC to withdraw its participations would therefore be costly and counterproductive, as it pursues a policy of shareholder engagement with these companies, resulting in an increasing requirement for carbon footprint reduction strategies. In the area of socially responsible investment – a subject that I know a little bit – there are two practices: exclusion or investment, which involves shareholder participation, which aims, through general meetings or through participation in boards of directors, to push the lines and continuously improve the practices of the companies concerned. Finally, Article 4 seeks to extend transparency obligations on assets held by major asset managers in companies engaged in exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and coal. This article also preempts the ongoing discussions at European level on sustainable finance, and in particular those surrounding the draft regulation on the publication of information by financial actors. Article 4 extends the obligations for institutional investors under article 173 of the Energy Transition Act. As I have already said, a more in-depth review of this article will be done by the end of the semester. We will then be able to draw all the conclusions on transparency obligations on the CO trajectory. In addition, the Place de Paris is committed to promoting investment, financing and insurance of goods oriented towards low-carbon solutions and technologies. The place will also develop precise measuring tools and set ambitious targets, in particular with regard to coal financing. These are the great messages I wanted to convey to you. For nearly two years, the Government has been taking decisive action to develop and encourage green finance, as this is the essential condition for meeting the challenge of the energy transition. We don't pay for words: measures and actions are there. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, this building is not closed. We can do better and go further, but we must also move forward in consultation with the other European countries. Several of the measures that you propose in the text we are considering seem to me to raise real legal and technical difficulties, which we must discuss.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u46	In the general debate, Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u47	In the fall of 2017, we had discussed a text whose ambition was to draw a guideline and send a strong signal by inviting the major economic powers to assume their responsibilities in the fight against climate change. The bill, which was sponsored by Nicolas Hulot and whose purpose was to phase out the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the national territory, was above all symbolic and suffered from serious shortcomings. Indeed, French oil and gas production covers only about 1% of our consumption. Prohibiting the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the national territory could therefore not have a real impact on the final consumption of fossil energy. This text did not prohibit, for example, the import of oil sands oil and shale gas, particularly since the entry into force of the free trade agreement with Canada, which liberalizes exports of these highly polluting oil. Nor was this law such as to change attitudes and empower economic actors. To make it credible, it needed to be accompanied by other initiatives. That is the objective of the bill that we are considering tonight. The text we are proposing is based on a terrible observation, drawn up by the two reports published last November by the NGOs Oxfam and Les Amis de la Terre. These reports have highlighted the irresponsible behaviour of the large banks in Hexagon, which are still massively supporting fossil fuels, and even more so since the signing of the Paris climate agreement. From 2016 to 2017, French banks reduced their financing for renewable energies – less than 1.8 billion euros – and increased their financing for fossil fuels. Yet, at the time of COP21, WWF has spent some $2,600 billion a year over the next 30 years on the financial mass that would have to be mobilized globally to address the climate challenge. Investments in fossil fuels alone account for not half of this amount. To measure the mass of capital in circulation on the planet is to underline the immense responsibility of financial actors in the failure or success of the ecological transition. It also underscores the responsibility of States, too busy to wage economic war, to give real, concrete attention to leaving a living planet to future generations. Yet the urgency is absolute, the time is short. We are in the short time of the survival of humanity. In order to have a chance to contain warming to 1.5 degrees from the pre-industrial era, the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, indicates that the share of renewable energy in total primary energy consumption is expected to be between 49 and 67 per cent by 2050, compared with 14 per cent at present. On the other hand, oil, gas and, above all, coal are expected to decline. Coal, which accounts for 38% of the world's electricity mix, is expected to be almost completely excluded in the middle of the century. There is, therefore, a real line to be taken between politics and financial markets to ensure that they invest heavily in the ecological transition. As Oxfam officials say, "we are at a turning point in climate action that demands immediate union and a common ambition from the private sector, public authorities and citizens." French banks must hear this message, especially as they make some of their most polluting investments by drawing on the savings of our fellow citizens, without their consent. In order to denounce this situation, Attac and 350.org launched, at the end of 2018, an awareness campaign with the slogan "Not with our money" calling for the exclusion of the 200 most climaticid companies from the portfolio of shares and bonds where the money from the librettos of the French can be invested. By introducing this bill, at the initiative of Elsa Faucillon, we wanted to take over this citizen requirement and ensure its legislative translation. Our text aims to ensure that the use by banks or savings funds of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations des ressources du livret A and the LDDS is fully in line with energy transition objectives. It also aims to ensure greater transparency in bank investments by setting up climate reporting targeting the crucial issue of disinvestment of activities that are contrary to climate objectives, primarily oil and coal exploration and exploitation. It is therefore a matter of establishing an obligation of full and effective transparency on investments made, country by country, in the fossil energy sectors, both for banks and for institutional investors. As you can see, our text defends above all a requirement of clarity and transparency, with the wish that we take a first step together to break with the current climate of inertia: the inertia of private investors, who do not resolutely commit themselves to the path of the indispensable disinvestment of the fossil energy sectors; government inertia, which still has many regulatory levers to direct investment directly or indirectly towards the ecological transition. In its opinion on the second national low carbon strategy, the Environmental Authority has just denounced, after many associations, the inconsistencies in the policy pursued. It believes that public authorities should be transparent in the evolution of financing in fossil fuels and "justify the reasons for maintaining public funding in the short term". Even more worryingly, the energy efficiency or renewable energy targets set out in the new multiannual energy programme are clearly not in line. We will have this debate during the discussion of the next energy bill, but we must note the current lack of ambition in the fight against climate change and the protection of the environment. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Gisèle Biémouret also applauds]] What are France's growth and GDP growth hiding? Since 2015, France has been measuring ten new wealth indicators to shed light on the sustainability of this growth, be it social or environmental. In the social and environmental fields, all the signals are red. Added to this is the inability to combine social justice and environmental imperative, which gave rise to the movement of yellow vests. Our fellow citizens do not turn their backs on the ecological transition, but they expect women and politicians to take their responsibilities and point responsibilities to the social and environmental crisis. It is in this spirit that we invite you to adopt this text, which should form a consensus between us: at the end of the day, when we have defended several bills, it would be an exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u48	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u49	The IPCC report of last October is formal: to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees, we must give up extracting more coal, oil and gas. Today, our lever for action is limited in the financing of these polluting activities. With this bill, our colleagues in the GDR Group intend to raise the question of the use of popular savings in an area that has become indispensable: the ecological transition. The text before us is in line with today's fundamental and profound dynamic, while CO emissions from fossil fuels are once again on the rise in the world, including in our country. Today, we must act. Popular savings can play a leading role in this fight. With the contents of LDDS and booklets A, it is a major source of funding, amounting to around 245 billion euros. The book on sustainable and solidarity-based development, held by 24 million French, is worth 106 billion euros, collected 60 per cent by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and 40 per cent by private banks. As far as the latter are concerned, 80% of this money is directed towards financing SMEs, whether they have sustainable activities or not, 10% towards energy saving work in old buildings and, finally, 10% of which we do not know how to use. In this connection, the Minister of the Economy, Bruno Le Maire, himself acknowledged on 27 November last year, on the occasion of the Climate Finance Day, that there was "a bit of deception about the goods" concerning the LDDS. However, transparency is the subject of ever-increasing demands from our citizens, all the more so in environmental matters, given the great urgency of climate change. Let us not look at ourselves: we all know not only the risks we face in remaining passive in the face of the current challenge, but also our responsibility to future generations. There is an urgent need: it is impossible to postpone our decisions until later. Today we see a total lack of transparency on the use of French savings concerning the booklet A and the booklet on sustainable development. While centralized funds seem to meet their own financing commitments, the bank's share of the LDDS is often only a pretext for this purely marketing practice of eco-money laundering, or greenwashing for the most English-speaking of our colleagues. Finance must play its part in the fight against climate change and the current tools, be they French or European, are insufficient to guarantee sustainable finance. In view of this, the State must assume its responsibilities by deciding on binding measures to guarantee banks' investment in clean energy. In the face of sometimes too short-term financial actors, the transition can only be successful if clear rules are applied to the actors involved in its financing. Given the climate emergency, it is not acceptable to rely on everyone's will: a mobilization of all is necessary. Thus, the creation of a public reporting of all financing for hydrocarbon-related projects, the transmission of detailed information on the use of non-centralised resources by banks and the obligation to take into account the criteria related to the fulfilment of social and environmental objectives are all steps in the right direction. Popular savings are one of the important resources that can be mobilized to channel funds towards transition. This implies effective control by elected officials and citizens. The information provided by banks must be accurate, rigorous and verifiable. I would also like to point out that this proposal for a law by the GDR Group largely echoes the excellent report of the fact-finding mission led by Bénédicte Peyrol and Christophe Bouillon on public tools encouraging private investment in the ecological transition. The report considered it essential to inform the general public about the compliance of the use of regulated savings with climate objectives. It would be difficult to understand if the majority of our assembly did not follow the recommendations of this report by rejecting the bill of our GDR friends. For months, many deputies of the majority, as well as the minister of ecological and solidarity transition, François de Rugy, have welcomed the mobilization of tens of thousands of people, each month, in the streets, for climate action; the recent mobilisation of young Europeans is there to encourage us. The climate emergency transcends interests. This bill puts us in the face of our responsibility. It is time to show our fellow citizens that the National Assembly hears their mobilization and is ready to play its role in the face of the climate challenge ahead. In committee, Mrs Peyrol stressed that "The main difficulty is that we are in an economy in transition and that, even if green projects are under way, there are not just green projects in the world; It is important that our banks continue to yield returns." But, precisely, the green economy has extraordinary potential, which only needs to be exploited. Ecology has become an obvious fact, not only from an ethical point of view but also from an economic point of view. The disinvestment of fossil fuels could be an opportunity to avoid the new financial crisis that many economists predict. Today, a large number of banks hold assets that correspond to fossil energy financing. However, as the International Energy Agency has pointed out, it is clear that these assets will devalue in the long run. Thus, in the light of the climate emergency, we share the views expressed in this bill on the need to act for greater transparency in the use of popular savings. What this text proposes is in line with the commitments made by the French State at COP21. If there is one issue on which it is crucial to work for the general interest, it is indeed that of the ecological transition, which calls for concrete, effective measures to attract the support of our citizens. The imperative implementation of the energy transition requires greater transparency, in line with the measures taken under the Energy Transition Act 2015 and the European Commission's Green Finance Action Plan 2018. That is the aim of this proposal for a law on transparency in the use of popular savings: that is why we fully support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u50	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u51	We are starting discussions on the bill tabled by the GDR Group and supported by Elsa Faucillon in favour of transparency in the use of popular energy savings. If this issue comes to an end in many hours of discussion, however, it remains a very important debate that needs our full attention. On behalf of the La République on the move, we thank Mrs Faucillon for proposing that this matter be placed on the agenda. Before turning to the main objectives, the sometimes very abstract figures, the major reform projects that are emerging and, finally, the text itself, I would like to refer here to the daily life of the French in the context of the ecological transition and its financing. "But what is the ecological transition, MP? This is the question that I was asked a few weeks ago in a big debate with entrepreneurs from TPE and SMEs. I had in front of me French disembodied in the face of these notions of which we; politicians, the media, experts, associations will beat their ears and behind them we put too little reality. In the Words and Things, which I read many years ago, Michel Foucault develops a thesis that has profoundly marked me that the object is what the person who talks about it says. The "ecological transition" object would therefore not be merely an ecological transition. It would be what everyone says: prohibitions and constraints for some, synonymous with reducing inequalities for others, vector of job creation, antidote against age-old stagnation, condition of best living, protection of health. I believe that the ecological transition is a little all this but it is mainly made up of the daily life of the French: it is the isolation of a dwelling, it is the commitment in a participatory project for the establishment of a citizen solar power plant. For communities, it is the establishment of heat networks, fleet development of electric vehicles or bicycles. For farmers, it may be the setting up of a methanization project. It also has a meaning: to preserve knowledge. If we destroy all the living, all the nature, this "non-organic body of man" according to Marx – for this is indeed the consequence of climate change – what will be the meaning of our existence? Through whom can we continue to learn who we are, where we come from and where we want to go? How can we find new solutions to the problems we face? Treat diabetes with the marine worm arenicola marina, find de-alinization solutions by observing the physiology of the shark and its ability to filter salt water, discover energy-saving solutions that the living universe is full of. I will be able to multiply the examples infinitely. As Idriss Aberkane writes in the Age of Knowledge, "If nature is a library, each species is a book, every organ a chapter, every molecule almost a paragraph, and for the scientist can be a decade of his research. » The ecological transition therefore has a meaning, it is in the daily life of the French and it must be deployed more massively, especially at the level of the companies that need to be accompanied even better. I am thinking in particular of our TPE-SMEs which, beyond funding, would need support, engineering to develop industrial ecology projects on the territory and to diagnose possible energy savings. The small steps of each will be great steps for all. There is no miracle recipe, but recipes: mobilize our daily lives and more, mobilize public money with the obsession to make it a lever for private investment, mobilize savers. Reorienting financial flows, the purpose of this bill, is obviously a key tool, an important building block to achieve these objectives. The majority shares the challenges presented by the rapporteur and which are the basis of this bill: implementation and compliance with Article 2 of the Paris Agreement; the need for investments in the ecological transition, of the order of 10 to 30 billion, whether private or public; Disengagement of fossil energy activities. The Government and the majority are well aware of these issues and we have been responding to them since the beginning of our mandate. One of the first laws of the quinquennium imposed the progressive end of all exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on French territory by 2040. Since the progress of the previous quinquennium, including article 173 of the Energy Transition Act, the Government has shown a genuine willingness to encourage, more than awareness, a change in paradigm and practices within the financial sector. The majority, supported by the Government, is mobilised and, through amendments to the PACTE law, has entrusted the Autorité des marchés financiers with a task of monitoring the quality of information provided by portfolio management companies on their investment strategy and their management of the risks related to the effects of climate change or voted to extend to green jobs the booklets A and LDDS. While our goals are common, our methods of achieving them diverge, as well as our understanding of the meaning of "transition", leading the majority not to retain the full content of the bill. First of all, the ecological and energy transition can only be a gradual change in patterns and habits. Although we all know here the need to stop investing in fossil fuels, the reality is that our economic model is still extremely carbonised. From there, two options emerge. We can decide to abruptly stop any supply of these energies, which could lead us to a chaotic situation. We can also, and this is the choice we have made, decide to ensure a comprehensive and ambitious transition of our economic model in all its forms: housing, mobility, work, at the heart of the enterprise. Contrary to the responsibility of NGOs to alert public opinion – and fortunately they are here! –, the responsibility of policies must be to protect citizens, by presenting appropriate and acceptable means to face the climate challenge and protect all the interests of the French, economic, social and health. Another difference is the role of finance in our ecological transition. Finance, as it was built, has a role to play in accompaniment of our economy and in aiding the financing of projects. In a still highly carbonised economy, it is not surprising that funding is directed towards these sectors. Similarly, with the strict prudential rules that we have adopted to protect savers – and I welcome this – we cannot be surprised that financial players are investing in liquid markets. However, the energy sector is the most liquid in the market. We therefore prefer to move more structurally towards greening economic and financial tools and rules. We believe that both finance and the economy must integrate the challenges of the ecological transition into their operations. We must be very honest with our fellow citizens: even if we decided tonight to force banks to disengage from all carbon projects and to redirect 100% of their investments towards the ecological transition, that would not solve the problem. As the testimony of TPEs and SMEs illustrates, the priority now is to transform needs into projects. The actors should even be made aware that needs can be transformed into projects for the energy transition, as advocated in the report by Philippe Zaouati and Pascal Canfin. I come to the content of your bill. First of all, as I said in the Committee on Finance, Article 1 is already almost satisfied, as your report points out. The problem of the shift towards ecological transition, which so far only concerned energy savings in buildings, has been well identified, and an amendment to the PACTE law has been adopted to extend the scheme to green jobs. We believe it is important to have more precise information on the use of these funds. That is why we will follow you on the extension of the mandate of the Regulated Savings Observatory to monitor the use of non-centralised regulated savings funds in the light of the ecological transition objectives, subject to the adoption of a sub-amendment that we will propose to you. Articles 2 and 4, which reinforce reporting obligations in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and coal, could be dealt with in a much more comprehensive manner. France is a pioneer in the field with Article 173, a model which it carries in particular at the level of the European Union. Several reports reveal the success of the initiative, notably through its flexibility, and we are now awaiting a report from the Government to take stock of the implementation of the law with a view to future development and harmonization of methods – perhaps a single methodology for assessing portfolios with respect to the 2 degree objective could be proposed. There are already many reporting obligations on the players: but do we always want more information or do we prefer to act? To act, I said, is to accompany our companies – and think not only of the big ones but of the companies that make up our territories – to identify the needs. Finally, with regard to article 3 on the Deposit and deposit fund, commitments have been made under the One Planet Summit. However, we share your concern for transparency regarding the policy pursued by the Caisse des dépôts, which must not hinder its duty to engage in a business dialogue with the companies in which it holds shares in order, once again, to accompany decisions towards a better consideration of climate issues. You mentioned, Madam rapporteur, the historic speech of 29 September 2015 in which the Governor of the Bank of England Mark Carney referred to the "tragedy of horizons": while science sheds light on the considerable risks we face in the long term as a result of climate change, financial markets are unable to take them into account in their usual functioning, in their model, in their valorisation. Mr. Carney identified three risks: physical risk, including increased frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, which will gradually make part of economic activity impossible to achieve; the risk of liability, i.e. the possibility that economic actors that have suffered the consequences of climate change may take legal action against companies and governments, and the risk of transition, i.e. the impact of poor valuation of assets by the market. Tonight we must have this debate, because the second risk, the risk of liability, we have seen in recent weeks. We owe the French, the European citizens, the citizens of the world...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u52	From the universe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... to clarify our objectives and explain how to achieve them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u54	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u55	The bill we are considering needs to be welcomed. Indeed, it highlights the need to make transparent the use of popular savings invested in sustainable and solidarity-based development booklets. The news is rich on the issue: IPCC report of October 2018, NGO campaign on the use of LDDS savings; Economic and Social Council opinion of 23 January on sustainable finance and now this bill. All this reflection and research makes the same observation: finance must play its part in the fight against global warming and the current tools, whether at national or European level, are still insufficient to guarantee sustainable finance. Madam Member, we can only agree with this fact, although we also welcome the transformations undertaken by many French banks to green their investment portfolio. The LDDS case illustrates this situation. In 2018, it represented an outstanding amount of almost 108 billion euros. However, several NGOs have denounced the fact that there is currently no instrument to ensure that the funds deposited on these booklets are not used to finance carbon-based energies. Nevertheless, the bill deserves to be improved, as I have tried to do by submitting a number of amendments to the committee. You will notice that I have withdrawn some of them, after careful thought and after hearing your arguments. Our position is simple. It seems important to support the requests for transparency made in the framework of this text, so that money can be placed on a sustainable and inclusive development booklet with confidence. Today, trust in banking is sorely lacking. This lack of confidence, linked to a lack of information, is pointed out by the EESC's latest report on sustainable finance, according to which "While the vast majority of our citizens share the imperative of moving towards a sustainable economy, it must be noted that the financial information provided to them so far does not yet allow them an informed shift in their savings. We will submit amendments to publish a supplementary report or to extend the missions of the Regulated Savings Observatory. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group, on several benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Member, our group will be extremely vigilant and kind in this debate. It is more necessary than ever to provide answers but also tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u56	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u57	We are considering the fifth and final text proposed by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left in the context of what is commonly referred to as their "parliamentary niche". On behalf of the Socialist and Allied Group, I regret that the four other bills on which we have tabled today could not be debated because of the adoption of procedural motions. The GDR group, like the Socialist and related group, has only one day in the year to present its proposals. Let us acknowledge that this is not excessive, much less in any case than the fate reserved for these proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u58	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u59	The majority, as the Government likes the debate, but not in the Chamber, we see it again today. To return to the text that brings us together this evening, I would like to make it clear that the Socialist and related groups will vote on this bill in favour of transparency in the use of popular energy savings. This text is in line with two commitments that Parliament and France made under the previous five-year period. The first commitment is the resolution "to achieve, beyond COP21, a low-carbon society", supported by the Socialist deputies under the previous legislature, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 25 November 2015. Point 4 of the resolution called for "encouraging institutional investors, companies, particularly those with a state shareholding, and local and regional authorities to stop investing in fossil fuels, particularly in coal". The second commitment is the Paris Agreement of 12 December 2015 and, more specifically, its Article 2, which calls for financial flows to be "compatible with a trend profile towards low greenhouse gas development and resilient to climate change. » This bill has the great merit of implementing, at least in part, these commitments. Article 1(e) reinforces the framework for the use of resources collected by credit institutions under Book A and the Sustainable and Solidarity Development Book, so that these resources are "exclusively" used according to the cases of employment already defined by law, namely, for SMEs, energy saving work in old buildings and legal persons in the social and solidarity economy. Currently, the 10% target for energy saving is not achieved, as the employment ratio is only 4.6%. Article 2 lays down the obligation for banking institutions to publish, on an annual basis, for the financial years opened from 1 January 2020, detailed information, country by country, on project financing and loans to companies engaged in exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and coal. Citizens are calling for such transparency, while the financing of French banks to companies in the hydrocarbon sector, which has been stable since 2010, went up again in 2018. Article 3 prohibits the financing of hydrocarbon and coal-related activities by the savings fund of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. Indeed, contrary to an idea received, the use of the resources of this savings fund – EUR 265 billion in 2017 – is not exclusively directed towards the financing of social housing. Approximately one third of these resources can be used for the acquisition and management of financial instruments. Finally, article 4 of the Convention gives effect to the obligation to provide information, on a country-by-country basis, on assets held in companies engaged in hydrocarbon and coal exploration and exploitation activities for management companies and institutional investors. These four articles are therefore in the right direction. We propose to adopt a fifth, which has two purposes: on the one hand, it amends the rules on wage savings by including the possibility for employees, following the model of solidarity funds, to subscribe to funds that invest in the energy and ecological transition in order to direct private capital towards the financing of companies contributing to the energy and ecological transition; On the other hand, it introduces into the environmental code the definitions of a "green" company and a "green" project. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] In conclusion, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the Socialist and related groups will vote on this beautiful and useful bill. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u60	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u61	The energy transition is an essential concern for our citizens and, ultimately, for our society. It must be at the heart of our debates, but it must not be forgotten that the Yellow Gilets movement was born out of the unsustainable trajectory of the fuel tax. We must remember that the genesis of the social movement of the Yellow Gilets is due to a punitive ecology which must be turned away in order to direct us towards positive measures. The bill before us is aimed at re-allocating financial flows initially aimed at investing in fossil fuels to renewable energies. It is laudable and necessary to ensure that the popular savings of the French massively support the fight against climate change and no longer finance fossil fuels. Finance must play its part in the fight against climate change. The current tools – French or European – are insufficient to guarantee sustainable finance. We can only agree with that. However, in its current wording, the bill would not achieve these objectives. That is why we will pay attention to the fate of the proposed amendments. The first step in such a project would be to take stock of the existing arrangements. Our colleague Bénédicte Peyrol told the Finance Committee that he had asked for a report from the assessment and monitoring mission on the implementation of Article 173 of the Energy Transition Act. Several aspects of the bill are already satisfied. If this appears to be the case with Article 1, its provisions may nevertheless constitute a step forward. It provides that the funds are used "exclusively" to invest in SMEs and to finance the energy transition of buildings. Of course, in the current state of law, the use of funds is already regulated. Moreover, the report of the Regulated Savings Observatory indicates that this money goes well to SMEs, and even beyond the indications given by the decree. However, adding the term "exclusively" could be an added value. Article 2 requires banks to publish annual detailed data on project financing, bilateral or syndicated loans, holding or purchasing securities of companies engaged in oil and coal exploration and exploitation. The information requirement is commendable; However, two aspects seem problematic to us: the increased complexity for credit institutions and the difficulty of fully verifying the implementation of this demand. Article 3 seeks to ensure that the sums deposited by savers on livrets whose deposits are centralized in the savings fund of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations cannot be used for the acquisition and management of capital securities or debt securities of undertakings engaged in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and coal. It is interesting in principle because the Caisse des dépôts et consignations has financial holdings in carbon sectors. Finally, Article 4 adds to the obligations imposed on insurance and reinsurance undertakings, mutual societies and a number of institutions an obligation of transparency on the management of their portfolio of assets in order to identify any investments made to undertakings engaged in exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and coal. Again, in principle, we are not opposed to this, but this type of rule may create a distortion with the foreign competitors of these establishments. Of course, we must decarbonize our economy, but the main difficulty is that we are in an economy in transition. It is important that our banks continue to generate returns to support this movement and direct investments towards the ecological transition while preserving the interests of individuals. Without balance, other actors could be forced to direct the investments of our savers without necessarily taking into account our desire to accompany the ecological transition. In addition, many establishments already invest heavily, without being forced, in SMEs and in renewable energy. This bill deals with a fundamental issue: how can investment be directed towards green transition projects? It must be borne in mind, however, that we must encourage more than punish so that financial institutions can voluntarily strengthen their activities in the environmental sector. We must not give in to another temptation of punitive ecology! As a result, the IDU, Act and Independent Group will be kind to this bill. At 11:30 p.m., we are happy to finally be able to debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u62	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u63	One element of your answer to Mrs Faucillon asked me, Madam Secretary of State: you said that Total should not be prohibited from receiving certain funding since this group would have carried out I don't know what experiment on an incredible battery.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u64	Much more than an experiment: these are massive investments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u65	That's all our difference! You think, like Emmanuel Macron, who said it several times, that finance is going to save the climate. Perhaps you don't know that, but since the Paris agreement, the banking sector has provided $275 billion to 120 coal companies and, between 2015 and 2016, French banks have increased their financing to the coal sector by 135 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u66	Refer to Article 2 of the Paris Agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u67	At the bedside of the climate, finance! It is a madness to believe that finance, primarily responsible for the situation we are in, could save us. For your part, you think that ecology is compatible with liberalism, and that is probably why you continue to sign free trade agreements with all cunning people that are observant of the future of the human species and of other living species. You think that freedom to undertake must prevail over the general interest, as you have shown with the law putting an end to the research and exploitation of conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons: in the end, it did not put an end to anything since the right of continuation was not regulated and you at the same time granted Total an exploration permit in Guyana. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Why am I shocked by Total? Since 1880, 90 companies have been responsible for 50% of CO emissions and 30% of sea level rise. Total in this ranking is seventeenth. So you can see it as an extremely important innovator. I call it a fosseur of humanity. It certainly hasn't escaped you that the youth is on the street and will be on strike tomorrow, for the fourth consecutive Friday. Every week, it gives ultimatums to the Government: on the second Friday, it concerned the energy decline. Young people are right to do so in the face of the inaction of the Government that I have just pointed out. If 80% of fossil resources do not remain underground, we have no chance of containing global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. The package could even be very sudden. I would therefore like to thank in particular Elsa Faucillon, the associations and the youth, who have mobilized to say how unacceptable it is that the savings of the French are used opacity in the financing of climate-related projects while everyone knows the stakes of this century in this matter. You may know that, but for 1 euro on the financial markets for renewable energy, French banks grant 8 euros to fossil fuels, which is all the more unacceptable as public bodies start to do so. The Caisse des dépôts et consignations finances twelve completely climate-related projects. The same applies to the Agence française de développement. While the French believe that they serve the general interest with their savings, they eventually finance mortifying projects. People's savings, on the other hand, need only be invested in this strategic area, that of our common future, so that the ecological problem can be addressed. Always count on the conscience of the people and finally begin to despair of the rich, unconscious and greedy! This is what we say in the name of popular ecology! We do not resign ourselves to the fatality of our burial by the world of money! You can pray the market, Juncker and Merkel, for the environmental struggle. We offer you better than prayers: the vote on this bill, without distorting it. For once, this will serve the interests of humanity and the social majority of our country. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We need a sober and efficient energy transition, without nuclear power, without fossil fuels. As a young man told Emmanuel Macron today during a debate, "the model of all money is over: do you think we can buy a new planet? When are you going to react? »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u68	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u69	I will speak little so much I am looking forward to examining this text of the Democratic and Republican Left – such an examination is obviously an exception! Stakeholders from different groups reported shared objectives. In the consciences, things are changing in the face of the progress, very quickly, of the ecological disaster, as I was also able to see during the hearings, even when they were representatives of sectors that were quite ideologically distant, including the one that is mine. Here again, we feel that while everyone is convinced, with regard to fossil fuels, that it is necessary to ban coal mining at all costs, things are a little less obvious for oil or gas when there is an urgent need. I will say something that will not prejudice our mutual respect. It is wrong to explain that there would be convergence on the analysis, but differences on the solutions to be made. The differences also concern the analysis of the situation, because to say that we are going to accompany the world of finance, that we are going to green finance, is to give it the hand and rely on it to achieve the objectives that the public authorities have set. Each and every one of us can see that it is a decoy, including since the 2015 law on the energy transition and for green growth: although the Government's assessment of its implementation has fallen behind, we see that things are not moving forward, that we sometimes even go down the commitments made, particularly in Article 2 of the Paris Agreement. It is not an offence to the world of finance to remind it: its raison d'être is to make profit, which leads it into a short-termist logic. I do not see why it would otherwise operate on its own initiative. It is therefore necessary to take binding measures – which has nothing to do with punitive ecology – and to show that, in the face of the disaster that is coming, we take our responsibilities and do not remain inaction. With regard to popular savings and the booklet on sustainable development and solidarity, we were again called upon to wait and postpone decisions. But the Minister of Economy and Finance himself said that there was deception about the goods! I can understand that banks face certain technical problems, but for citizens, it is important that the LDDS stock is directed exclusively at the objectives set by law. This is a crucial democratic issue. The money saved by the French must serve the general interest, it must not go against their interests! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Finally, in response to the arguments calling for the decisions of Europe, I can only welcome the pioneering role that France itself has had on this issue. I am convinced, indeed, that when we are exemplary ourselves, we are stronger to encourage more ambitious decisions at European or global level. And on the other hand, every time we moderate our ambitions, this results in less results at the international level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u70	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u71	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u72	This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group proposes to amend the rules on wage savings by including the possibility for employees to subscribe, on the model of solidarity funds, to funds that invest in the energy and ecological transition, in order to direct private capital towards the companies concerned. In order to do this, we propose to amend Article L. 214-164 of the Monetary and Financial Code concerning the arrangements for the management of mutual funds of enterprise and Article L. 3332-17 of the Labour Code concerning wage savings. "Green" funds shall comprise a share of between 5 % and 10 % of securities issued by undertakings whose activities fall within the scope of the energy and ecological transition or projects falling within the scope of the energy and ecological transition, or securities issued by venture capital companies or pooled risk investment funds, provided that their net assets consist of at least 40 % of securities issued by green undertakings. The diversification of securities guarantees the saving person a better control of the overall risk. This amendment also seeks to introduce into the Environmental Code a legislative definition of enterprises and projects which can be described as "green". It would be useful to mobilise wage savings schemes for the benefit of the green economy, as they allow the medium- to long-term investments we need to ensure the transition to a low-carbon economy, in particular to finance infrastructure. Extending the wage savings system to the "green" funds would also be a positive first signal for green savings taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u74	It is true that today, article L. 3332-17 of the Labour Code refers only to solidarity funds, but the law already provides that the CFPE employment regulations may include environmental considerations. It is therefore already possible to exclude from these funds companies whose activities are related to fossil resources. Your proposal still makes it possible to go further. Without calling into question the current balances of solidarity funds, it tends to provide new guarantees to direct wage savings towards green investments. The committee has rejected the amendment, but I am in favour of it personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u76	The Government is opposed to this amendment for two reasons. First, you propose to give a more precise definition of the compartments covered by the energy transition. However, the approach is under way at European level: it is the taxonomy of environmentally sustainable activities, which must establish, with a view to clarification, a precise catalogue of what can be classified as such activities. These quality debates are in line with your objective; they have reached an advanced stage, to the point that their outcome is envisaged at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. Therefore, we do not consider it necessary to draw up a standard that might conflict with what will emerge from it. Secondly, as part of the PACTE bill that you are going to review next week, we decided to introduce energy transition funds into life insurance. The financial potential of life insurance is indeed much higher than that of wage savings, since it is a question of the outstanding amount of 1700 billion euros in 2016 and 1900 billion today. We are on a vast playground, and the goal is to have at least units of account proposed in this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u77	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1 and 10. They are the subject of a sub-amendment No 16. Mrs Elsa Faucillon, rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u78	I propose to update the missions of the Regulated Savings Observatory. In accordance with the Monetary and Financial Code, the latter submits annually a report on the implementation of the general distribution of Book A – now fully effective, ten years after the 2008 law. I propose that this document report on the use of funds collected under Book A and the Sustainable and Solidarity Development Booklet for projects contributing to the ecological transition or the reduction of the climate footprint. Such broad drafting is consistent with the amendment made in the PACTE bill. This would require a change in the composition of the Centre, which today does not include any qualified persons appointed because of expertise in the field of energy transition. The committee rejected this amendment. I would like to present it again because it seems to me important to ensure that we follow up on the information provided for in section 1, which is necessary to achieve the objectives of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u79	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u80	Indeed, we believe it is necessary to extend the missions of the Observatory until we study the impact of the LDDS on the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u81	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor to support sub-amendment No 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u82	We welcome this update of the missions of the Regulated Savings Observatory. It is particularly welcome after the passage in the PACTE Bill of the Green Jobs provision of Booklet A and LDDS funds. However, we propose to delete the second sentence of paragraph 3, which provides for an assessment of the national low carbon strategy, or SNBC. In view of the work under way at European Union level, we prefer to maintain a broad and flexible definition of the Centre's competences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u83	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u84	It was not considered by the committee. I rely on the wisdom of the House on him. I prefer my wording, but the proposed editorial simplification does not seem to me to reduce the scope of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u86	The Government is in favour of Amendments Nos. 1 and 10, subject to the adoption of Subamendment No. 16. The Regulated Savings Observatory ensures the roll-out of Book A to households; Its mission is rather statistical. It will need to strengthen its expertise as it does not currently undertake project reviews. It seems to me that the adoption of the sub-amendment would make it possible to better respect its vocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u87	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u88	Let me put Article 2 in a few words, because I can guess what a regrettable fate you will have in the absence of an amendment by the majority. Many arguments in favour of waiting were put forward in committee and in the general discussion. I have explained how little they seem to me to be relevant to the ongoing environmental disaster, which, on the contrary, requires that binding measures be taken. This amendment seeks to clarify two aspects of the reporting that banks will have to establish country-by-country. Transparency must relate to the amounts of investment and not just to the share of turnover. It must also apply to the whole spectrum of intervention of banks, cover loans and financing but also aid for the issuance of shares and bonds, the activities of "underwriting". Banks today do not have the means to achieve their environmental objectives. Above all, they use various methods to hide the nature of their investments. We therefore need the best tools to measure the extent of financing in the fossil energy sector. The committee has rejected this amendment, which I therefore personally support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u90	Unfavorable opinion for the same reasons as before: the proposed provision tends to preempt the ongoing discussions at European level on sustainable finance, in particular the debates on taxonomy. It competes with the norm that will soon have to be incorporated into our law. In view of the time frame for the adoption of this text, I do not think that is reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u91	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u92	In order to ensure that banks apply the obligation of transparency on their financing to fossil energy sectors, this amendment aims to ensure that the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the CPRA, can initiate a periodic injunction procedure if it finds that the banks do not publish this information. The aim is not so much to punish banks as to discourage them from escaping their obligations by equipping the regulator with the tools necessary to carry out its mission. However, the committee rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u93	The commission was wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u95	In line with my previous opinion, I am against this, even if it is the Autorité des marchés financiers that would be responsible for carrying out such a task.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u96	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u97	This amendment concerns insurers and reinsurers. According to the Swiss Re reinsurer, the number of natural disasters has increased fourfold in 30 years. However, insurers can participate in global warming when they carry out oil and coal mining and exploration projects. For lack of assurance, no industrial projects are financed. According to the representatives of the NGOs that I have heard, one of the main French insurers, which I will not mention, continues to provide fossil projects. I therefore invite you to make all the transparency on the guarantees granted by French insurers and reinsurers to projects related to fossil fuels. However, the committee rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u98	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u99	In line with previous opinions, I will be against this amendment because, although it seems logical to extend the obligation to insurance, I remain opposed to the principle of reporting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u100	I have before me an amendment No 5 which is the subject of several sub-amendments. The rapporteur, Mrs Elsa Faucillon, has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u101	This amendment was adopted by the Finance Committee. The Caisse des dépôts et consignations is under the protection of Parliament. As such, the Fund's oversight committee submits an annual report to Parliament assessing the sustainability of its activities. It is proposed to include all the financing that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations grants to companies in the fossil energy sectors, as well as its strategy of disinvestment of all activities contrary to our climate objectives. The prohibition on the financing of fossil activities provided for in Article 3 concerns the savings fund alone, but it must have an effect on all the activities of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and its subsidiaries. The specific follow-up that I propose will be guaranteed by the Monitoring Committee and will ensure that the Fund's investments do not contribute to climate change and that it properly manages the financial risks associated with climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u102	I have before me two sub-amendments, No 18 corrected and 19 corrected, which can be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u103	While it is legitimate for Parliament to ask the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to report on the effectiveness of this policy and to establish real transparency on the modalities of implementation, the online publication of the CDC's holding in certain companies could set a precedent contrary to the CDC's objective of operational dialogue with energy groups to implement ambitious green transition policies. Over-transparency by some NGO members could lead to the liquidation of CDC interests in companies in certain sectors rather than the adoption of a strategy of remaining a shareholder to encourage them to change their practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u105	The amended sub-amendment No 18 reduces the scope of the amendment which was adopted by the committee in that it aims to remove the detailed reporting of CDC funding to companies that develop fossil fuels. I find it hard to understand why you want to deprive us of that transparency. How would this obligation have weakened the CDC's strategy? I do not know, especially since the Pension Reserve Fund already provides this information. I don't understand why you prefer this alignment from the bottom. As for the corrected sub-amendment No 19, it is intended that the report of the Monitoring Committee should cover not only the climate objectives of the CDC but also its commitments to the ecological transition in the broad sense. This addition seems useful to me, without justifying the step backwards that you are taking in the previous amendment. As a matter of personal wisdom, the opinion on the corrected subamendment No 19 and against the corrected subamendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u107	The amendment tends to provide a clarification that is outside the scope of the law. I would be tempted to give an unfavourable opinion, but I will be in favour of it, subject to the adoption of both sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u108	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u109	We have already recalled the need to extend the effects of Article 173 of the Act of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth, which provided for a reporting mechanism for institutional investors on climate risk management. The Act specifies certain elements of this transparency, such as the measurement of greenhouse gas emissions associated with the assets held. However, the implementing decree of 29 December 2015 allows investors not to disclose all the information provided; They must then simply explain why they do not make them public. This flexibility is not justified with regard to the financing of fossil fuels, for which the obligation of transparency is simple to implement, without the need for complex tools for climate impact assessment. However, it serves as an alibi to the entities concerned. The amendment therefore seeks to make the obligation of transparency in the financing of fossil fuels fully applicable. By adopting it, we will prevent the decree from making it optional. While we are still awaiting the Government's assessment of the implementation of article 173, we must warn it that there is no lasting uncertainty about reporting on climate risk management. The committee has rejected this amendment, which I am very much in favour of personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u111	It is unfavorable, because we are in the process of taking stock of section 173 of the 2015 Act. We consider it premature to complete a report that has not yet been completed. The ongoing discussions at European level should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u112	On the whole of the bill, I am seized by the groups of the Republic on the move and the Democratic and Republican Left with a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u113	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u114	This amendment calls on the Government to submit to Parliament, one year after the enactment of the Act, a report on the financing of the energy transition through popular savings. These elements are necessary to inform the discussions. Making the information available makes it possible to capture, appropriate and evolve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u116	I am going to deliver a favourable opinion, as I had already done in committee, where it had still been rejected. But this text will eventually only provide for reports, which, you will agree, is a little weak. Its scope has been considerably diminished.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u118	At the 2017 Climate Finance Day, the State, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the Fonds de réservation pour les retraites, the Agence française de développement, the Établissement de retraite additional de la fonction publique and Bpifrance signed a charter for French public investors in favour of climate, whose sixth principle provides for transparency on their climate investments. They undertook to report on the actions undertaken and the results achieved. I propose that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u119	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u120	Mr President, I am asking for a suspension of the sitting to bring my group together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u121	In that case, we will suspend the meeting for ten minutes, if that is right for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u122	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u123	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u124	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u125	In a forum published on France Info a few weeks ago, twenty-five economists called for support of the text submitted to our review. It is also supported by many civil society actors. The purpose of the bill is simple: to provide assurance to citizens that the funds deposited on their booklet A and on their sustainable and solidarity development booklet are not used for the financing of hydrocarbon and coal exploration and exploitation activities. Currently, 7 out of 10 euro of bank financing goes to fossil fuels. In addition, banks have increased their support for new coal-fired power plants by 52%. On the other hand, you say, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that banks must be able to engage freely in climate finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u126	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u127	You are opposed to the establishment, for the banking sector, of a public reporting, country by country, on the financing of projects, bilateral or syndicated loans holding and purchasing securities of companies engaged in hydrocarbon and coal exploration and exploitation activities, a measure which is, however, a matter of simple transparency. As for article 3, of which you do not want to either, it was only intended to ensure that the sums deposited by savers and centralized in the savings fund of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations could not be used for the acquisition and management of securities of companies engaged in exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and coal. In the end, what to say? That our bill is completely emptied of its substance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u128	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u129	[[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...so deprived of all scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u130	What an outrage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u131	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Gisèle Biémouret also applauds]] We will therefore abstain from the text resulting from our discussions. We're not far from a sleeveless knife that would have lost its blade! Let's say there's still the mitre, which should not be confused with the bishop's cap!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u132	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u133	I've never lived such a day before. We began with motions for rejection and continued with motions for referral to committee. Tonight, we have just invented a new motion, never seen before in the history of parliamentary procedure: the motion for a report – or for a postponement, in which case the vowel has slipped.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u134	[[Rires on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] It's the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u135	As our colleague Alain Bruneel has just said with a lot of poetry, the text has been emptied of its meaning. Yet it contained nothing wicked. In addition, it was expected by many of our fellow citizens. I see a curious symbol: on the very day when the President of the Republic addresses the issue of ecology in the context of the great national debate, you say, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: "No, we will see this later! "
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u136	It's pretty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u137	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] But it is already too late. If I establish a link between form and substance, I take the impression that climate issues are not part of your concerns. One day, you will be accountable and accountable to the entire people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u138	Who voted for the end of hydrocarbon research and exploitation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u139	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u140	At a time when, as our colleague Mathilde Panot pointed out, young people are mobilizing every Friday, and on the very day that Mr Macron is discussing ecology with a panel of young people, it is with disappointment that we see you empty the meaning of this bill. What an irony of fate! Twenty months ago you were heard sighing and screaming as soon as the opposition made a request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u141	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u142	Fortunately there are requests for a report, otherwise the bill we are debating would no longer exist – proof that everywhere you have to see the right one! To our astonishment, nothing has bothered you in the title of the bill "in favour of transparency in the use of popular energy savings". You kept him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u143	That's always it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u144	Do you ever know, you could have found a reason to change its title itself, as you did with the bill to consolidate the French model of blood donation? In short, we are deeply disappointed to see a bill emptied of its full meaning. At least we now know that you can debate; We know that you know how to under-amend amendments and reject individual articles. Perhaps it should be seen as a sign that, as has been the case today, motions for prior rejection and referral back to committee will never again be put forward and that the debate will take place. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In any event, for our part, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u145	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u146	I regret that the bill is completely empty of its substance, following the only debate we had on this day of the parliamentary niche of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Basically, it is a succession of setbacks. This tactic gives hope in vain for a real debate. It's all a long time ago! I too will abstain from the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u147	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u148	The bill was a major step forward. Several provisions, similar to those put forward by our group, have not been adopted. However, we have tried to improve the text in committee. Of which act. [[Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff applauds]] Perhaps it is, in a very objective way, a matter of taking a smaller step tonight. Our group will vote for the text from our debate. As small as he is, this step is necessary. It's a small step, but still a step.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u149	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u150	This day ends a little strangely. I said four times "same motive, same punishment," but I don't know how to conclude. Earlier, I concluded my remarks at the rostrum and indicated that I would be attentive to the debate before taking a decision. I have to admit, I'm pretty bored. I don't know what to think about tonight. Our colleagues who tabled the text abstained, even though I expected them to vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u151	We hesitated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u152	It's good to know us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u153	For my part, I was considering voting against or abstaining. However, I agree with our colleague in the MODEM Group that it may be a shame not to take this very small step and not to end the day on a positive note.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u154	We're pushing you to the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u155	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We've been sitting since this morning. We have debated a single bill. We share the conclusion that it is based on. I would therefore like to take this small step and therefore vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u156	It's just dust, that is, the importance of the feather!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u157	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u158	This day has shown the difficulty of a series of debates on a wide variety of topics. On many issues, we would have had the opportunity to go much further and to support the proposed texts much more. That is why we sometimes have to raise procedural motions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u159	Always!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u160	...for lack of the opportunity to enter into the complexity of the topics addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u161	We must remove the parliamentary niches!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u162	No! You probably have to work differently in committee. The President of the National Assembly, together with all the parliamentary groups, is reflecting on the revision of our Rules of Procedure, in order to give the opposition the opportunity to achieve real progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u163	You're muzzling the opposition, with the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u164	This evening we were able to debate a bill that was the subject of a real debate and a real reflection in committee. We have also provided an overview of the achievements at European level. As such, the links between French legislation and European projects should be welcomed. Article 173 of the law on the energy transition for green growth in France was a huge innovation, in the continuity of the COP21, in particular Article 2 of the Paris Agreement, according to which the finance sector must contribute fully to the effort to achieve a decarbonised world. Here we take small steps. I have no doubt that the majority will, in the coming months, be eager to continue this work. Article 173 of the Law on the Energy Transition for Green Growth has the merit of existing. It produces effects. It must be evaluated and probably strengthened. We will therefore vote on the text. We know that it does not do everything and does not in itself constitute a green finance revolution. However, his intention seems very relevant to us. I would like to say to our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left that it is always difficult, when we table procedural motions, to hear us say that there is no debate. That's right; However, when we play the map of the debate and rework the text, adding some provisions and removing others – this is the game of the parliamentary debate –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u165	You're taking everything out! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u166	...we are surprised to see that other parliamentary groups choose to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u167	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u168	We must definitely remove the parliamentary niches!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u169	You are the specialists of the vacuum pump!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u170	A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u171	You emptied the text of its substance and you have the nerve to ask for respect? That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u172	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u173	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u174	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 33 Number of votes cast 22 Absolute majority 12 For adoption 22 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u175	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u176	I thank the co-signatories of the bill and the administrator of the Finance Committee. I also thank those with whom we have built the bill. They're whistleblowers. For example, Attac, 350.org and Zero Fossile. Next year, they will publish – along with other NGOs – reports that – unfortunately – will confirm that investments in fossil fuels are stagnating or increasing. Certainly, the majority will say that these are insufficiently argued and provided. That's too bad! Today we could have allowed them to be confronted with data provided by the banks. If the ecological disaster that we have before us does not put you – do we – at the foot of the wall, I am almost convinced that the mobilizations of youth, all over the world, especially those scheduled for March 15 and 16 and announcing a warm spring, will put you at the foot of the wall in the coming months. I therefore keep hope, even if tonight, very clearly, you have emptied of its substance – you must say it and you cannot deny it – the text that we proposed, thinking very honestly that it had very consensual aspects, given the speech that you are holding, and that the President of the Republic has still held before the citizens this afternoon. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Of course, we feel bitter, but we will continue, and I believe that we are not alone. In any event, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and the other co-signatories of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u177	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u178	I take the floor again to recall that the Government has not waited for the deputies – whom I thank for their commitment to the ecological and energy transition – to act. On the other hand, I have never indicated that we support banks engaged in climate change investments. This is, to say the least, an excessive statement, even though France has taken a real turn in terms of energy and solidarity transition for the past two years, to the point of being in advance in this area and of being a symbol, thanks in particular to the organisation of the Climate Finance Day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u179	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u180	Finally, I would like to point out that the stakes of this bill – which sets out some interesting principles – are already dealt with by the PACTE bill, by the debate taking place at European level and by the work carried out within the framework of the Climate Finance Day. Perhaps we must take into account an environment in which Members – of the majority or not – are already working,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u181	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u182	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...and refrain from considering that nothing exists and that this bill alone allows us to move things forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1170.u183	Next meeting, Monday, 11 March, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the motion for a resolution on Franco-German parliamentary cooperation; Discussion of the proposal for a law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories; Discussion of the proposal for an organic law on the appointment of the Director General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. The meeting is adjourned.
