ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u1	The next item is the Government's policy statement pursuant to article 49, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, the debate and the vote on that declaration. [[Mrs. and Mr. the members of the MODEM and LaREM groups stand up and applaud]] The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been governing for two years now and there is always an urgent need, perhaps even more. Economic urgency, as the employees of the factories in Belfort, Amiens or elsewhere call it. Social emergency, as our fellow citizens cry out from isolated territories, as hospital staff say. Environmental emergency, as young French people call it against governments and businesses that would not do enough. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups – Claims on several benches of non-registered MPs]] Political urgency: On 26 May, the far right came to the top of the vote in France. As in many Western democracies, political radicality, nourished by the obsession with decline and fear of the other, now structures part of our democratic life. This emergency brings us together. It was she who led to the election of the President of the Republic. It gave the President a majority in the general elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u3	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u4	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It was she who guided your vote of confidence in the Government, two years ago, to lead an intense agenda of transformation. I will not return here to the long list of reforms that we have carried out; the French do not expect a balance sheet, let alone an exercise of self-satisfaction. I just want to say to the Government and the majority that I am proud of it and that I thank them for the work they have done. Unemployment has been at the lowest in ten years, investment has been at the highest in twelve years, we know the increase in the most dynamic purchasing power in ten years and France is breaking records of attractiveness. This gives us grounds for hope and legitimacy to continue the work. Over the past two years, we have been keeping the course set by the President of the Republic. The one we thought was necessary to free our country's forces and protect its citizens, sometimes taking unpopular decisions or making mistakes, and I obviously take my fair share. Whatever the difficulties, most of the measures announced in my previous policy statement are now in place. This fidelity to the word given has forged the legitimacy of our action. Last November, we met with anger. Some will say that we have created it alone; I don't believe it. This anger comes from far away and many democracies have felt it in various forms. But it doesn't matter. It was to us, the rulers, the parliamentarians, that it was addressed above all. In a way, it reminded us of our promise to promote work and combat injustices. We have taken powerful steps to meet the aspirations of the French and to calm down. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] From this period, which marked me deeply – as I believe, each of you – and then from the Great Debate, which allowed hundreds of thousands of French people to go to their town halls or public halls to dialogue, work, think, the Government and the majority intend to draw the strength of a new momentum. This is Act II of the quinquennium, a new stage which marks a caesure by a profound change of method, but which goes hand in hand with two imperatives: consistency and coherence, which are the only things our country has ever tried... Constance and coherence in action. Our country needs to change. Our enemy, it's not the movement, it's lestatu quo. Constance and consistency in our values, then. Our values are patriotism, attachment to the Republic, the affirmation of the European ideal. It is the quest for social justice, not the one that pays for words, but the one that lives on a daily basis. It is the value of work, this simple idea that solutions will come from work and must therefore be rewarded. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It's the overtaking of postures and old cleavages. More than ever, our country needs the union of French and French people who want to act, far away, far from partisan logics. The partisan commitment is obviously respectable. General de Gaulle, who did not like political parties, had insisted that article 4 of the Constitution provides that they contribute to the expression of universal suffrage. The parties therefore remain central actors in democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups – Mr Pancher applauds]] I do not believe, for my part, that the cultures of the left and the right have disappeared. In our country, there is a culture on the left, a culture on the right, a culture on the centre. To deny it would be to forget two centuries of political history.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u5	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u6	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But are these cultures enough to structure the debate? Do they say what to do about Europe, ecology, Mediterranean policy, decentralisation? I don't believe it. The real issue today is not how to resurrect the left or save the right. The goal is to achieve, with our heritages, our sensibilities, our differences, to exceed our habits, to gather, to meet the challenges of our country and our planet. The mayors know how powerful the gathering logic is, and I greet all those, wherever they come from, who are ready to join us in supporting the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u7	Here we go again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u8	We've done a lot for two years, but there's still so much to do! At the heart of Act II, there is first of all ecological ambition. No one today has a monopoly on green; This is also the overtaking of the old divisions. I know the suspicions about me. I come from the right, I have worked in a large French nuclear company and I am elected from an industrial city, so I could neither understand nor do anything. That's not much to do with my political culture, my experience in Le Havre, and those two years of government. But, yes, I took time, like other French, to consider these issues as urgent as the defence of employment or security. Young people are pushing us, in our families, all over the world and in Europe. Everywhere, we see climate change, air, soil and sea pollution that threaten our health and biodiversity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] I won't pretend to be someone else: I'm not a defender of the decline. I believe in science. I would like it to have more room in the public debate and to have our decisions better informed by it. I know what our country owes to its agriculture and how fortunate it is to be able to count on demanding and passionate farmers. I love the industry, and I assume it: I admire its workers, workers, technicians and engineers, who produce. I believe in the market economy regulated by politics, innovation and the strength of growth. [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] I believe possible a new economic model that produces wealth, therefore employment, without dirtyness, without contaminate, without destroying, without condemning those who will come after us or those who live far from us. And I believe that every time we create a public financial incentive, we must consider its real effectiveness and consider how private actors will one day take over. We need to invent an economic model where energy sobriety, clean transport, healthy food and recycling progress much faster than growth rates. This is my conviction and I want to be judged on the acts. For the next 12 months will be those of ecological acceleration. The first axis of our battle plan is to make our economy cleaner, and first of all how we produce our energy and move. This is the subject of the two bills before you: the mobility orientation bill and the energy-climate bill. I hope that they can be voted on before the summer. It is this government that will close the Fessenheim power plant – before the end of 2020 – and which has proposed a credible path to reduce the share of nuclear power to 50% by 2035, thanks to the massive development of renewable energy, particularly wind at sea. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Indeed, when we arrived at the responsibilities, we realized and considerably reduced the costs of six unsuccessful calls for tenders. Today, the project off Dunkirk shows that costs fall even faster when the projects are well set up. This will allow us to increase the pace of future calls for tenders to one gigawatt per year. It's a good thing for the price of electricity, for our industry and for our planet! By the end of the year, we will finalize the green transition contracts at Gardanne, Saint-Avold, Cordemais and Le Havre, where coal-fired power plants will close by 2022. The success of the conversion bonus for the purchase of a cleaner vehicle allows us to double our target: we now target 1 million families by the end of the quinquennium. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will give a new direction to our hydroelectric policy. In this area, not only electricity production is regulated, but also entire valleys and regions are regulated. We will respect European law, but we will not accept the fragmentation of this common heritage of the French. Finally, we will negotiate with the European Commission a new regulation of the price of electricity, so that the French can benefit more from the stability and competitiveness of our past investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u9	That's better than a 6% increase!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u10	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We want to give the French the means to heat themselves without polluting or paying more. We will therefore completely flatten the existing aids for energy renewal, which are of terrible complexity and actually benefit the richest households. We will therefore turn the energy transition tax credit into more massive aid to those who need it most. Let us recognize that, apart from social housing, we do not have effective levers to overcome the thermal colanders that lead to the climate and purchasing power of our fellow citizens. Let's make them up together! I know that Members will make proposals, and I am open to them. We discussed it with Pascal Canfin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u11	What about the ministers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In this area, we must succeed in mobilising public and private funding, reasoning beyond standards and obligations, even if they are necessary, reiterating the success that a Jean-Louis Borloo was able to achieve, in his time, with the ANRU – Agence nationale pour la rénovation urbaine – since the problems and complexities are basically quite comparable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u13	How many units?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u14	The second axis of our battle plan is the break with waste. We must put an end to a consumption model in which mines are ever deeper and mountains of waste are ever higher. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I have announced our willingness to put an end to this scandalous practice of throwing away what cannot be sold. This measure is a first in the world. It will be included in the bill to combat waste, which will be one of the three priorities of the September re-entry. [[Same movements]] We have already validated the removal of the most harmful single-use plastic products, but we need to go further. Because the state must be exemplary, all disposable plastic products will be banned from the administration next year. I also want us to set a target of 100% recycled plastic. In the next few days, we will have a great deal of consultation, particularly with the communities, to study the release of certain packages. Overseas communities will be able, if they wish, to become pilot territories. The law against waste will provide for the possibility of imposing the incorporation of recycled plastic in all single-use plastic bottles. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I have noted the willingness of many parliamentarians to further expand the ban on single-use plastic. One amendment thus tended to extend it to plastic boxes, but we considered, together, that our industries would be destabilised and that it should be corrected. His intention, however, was commendable, and I will propose to you, in the context of the anti-spill bill, provisions to progressively ban plastic boxes that are not made of recycled plastic. I'm going to the food. We have to produce and eat better. The President of the Republic has reaffirmed this, we will fight in Europe to guarantee a CAP budget that is commensurate with the needs of the ecological transition, a budget that protects our farmers and gives them the means to produce otherwise. We will also reorganize our food police to provide the French with more guarantees about what they consume. [[Same movements]] We have successfully launched a national approach to improve information on the nutritional quality of food and to develop the use of nutrient-score in food labelling. We will defend it with the European Commission and our partners in order to make nutrient-score compulsory. [[Same movements]] One final word on this subject: the Government's record of prevention is, I believe, solid, both with regard to tobacco, vaccinations and road safety. Agnès Buzyn offered me to open a new stage and tackle obesity. This will be a national goal for schools, health, sport, agriculture and industry. I would be happy to welcome the parliamentary proposals on this subject. With François de Rugy, the Minister of State, I hope that the French will be the first players in the ecological transition. [[Same movements]] The citizens' convention for the ecological and climate transition will be an unprecedented moment of participatory democracy. It will make it possible to propose new measures whose pace and funding will be defined. It will deliver its conclusions at the beginning of 2020. The Government is committed to translating these proposals into bills, into regulatory measures and even, for the most powerful, to refer them to a referendum. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For its part, the ecological defence council will ensure that the highest state summit is mobilized to make ecology a priority for all of our public policies. We must defend both the climate and purchasing power, air quality and our industries and jobs. Here we have a new "at the same time" to build, which calls for the same exceedances: overcoming the oppositions between producers and ecologists, exceeding our consumption habits, overcoming postures. We must succeed in making it the business of all. We will have to focus on concrete results that concern the daily lives of the French. I do not want to be the man of the announcement effects, but I want us to be the majority of the commitments made. At the heart of Act II are ecological ambition but also social justice. [[Same movements]] In the name of social justice, we must allow everyone to work. Unemployment is falling to the point of reaching its lowest level in ten years. With 93,000 jobs created in the first quarter, the figures published again this morning by INSEE show that we are on the right track. However, we have not finished with mass unemployment, which locks in the precariousness of families and territories. Every period of unemployment is a trial, an anguish. It's a daily fight for the one who confronts it. This is my Government's central fight because we are done with the resignation and the harmful idea that everything would have been attempted against him. We have strengthened the social dialogue in the company, to put an end to the fear of hiring. We have reformed vocational training and learning to develop the right skills in response to needs. We have launched a poverty plan whose central objective is the resumption of activity. We must now complete this wide-ranging reform movement and, as all our neighbours have done, lead that of our unemployment insurance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Together with the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, I will present the reform next Tuesday, June 18. We set ourselves several objectives. First of all, we want to put an end to the abuse of short contracts. The reform of labour law has eased the rules applicable to enterprises and increased their security, which was necessary. In return – you know how much I appreciate this term – they will have to resort in a more responsible way to short contracts that prevent employees from building their lives with a minimum of serenity. Therefore, in the five to ten sectors of activity where these contracts are essentially signed, generating precariousness, we will introduce a bonus/malus principle on unemployment insurance contributions. In other sectors, we will take a cross-cutting step to discourage the use of fixed-term contracts. Second objective: work must always pay more than inactivity. This is usually the case. In most situations, compensation rules are well thought out and will continue to apply. However, there are cases where the monthly unemployment benefit is higher than the average monthly wage received. We must put an end to it. Third objective: compensation must be degressive for employees who receive the highest wages and who are able to return to work faster than others. Fourth objective: in the context of the reform of unemployment insurance, we wish to strengthen the support of jobseekers. As you know, the Government has regretted that the social partners have not been able, through dialogue, to reform the unemployment insurance system themselves, but we continue to believe that they have a place in the implementation of this reform, as in the implementation of Act II as a whole. [[Same movements]] In particular, the new accompanying measures, for which we will find new means, must not be thought only in Paris: the needs are not the same according to the areas of life and employment. The work I have initiated on national and territorial mobilisation with the social partners will have to help identify the best solutions and give local actors a great deal of room for manoeuvre. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, this reform will give access to unemployment insurance to resigning employees as well as to self-employed workers. [[Same movements]] In the name of social justice, work must pay. The President of the Republic and I, we have received five out of five, loud and clear, the message of tax exasperation that the French have sent us. They don't want words anymore, they want deeds. We have therefore decided to cut historical taxes: in total, household taxes will fall during this quinquennium by almost 27 billion euros. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I confirm that the housing tax on principal residences will be completely abolished for all French citizens. The most modest 80% of French citizens will benefit from the abolition of the second third of the housing tax in September and their tax will be completely abolished in 2020. For the remaining 20% of French, the abolition will be spread over the next three years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will reform the financing of local and regional authorities, guaranteeing their financial autonomy and the dynamism of their resources. Jacqueline Gourault and Gérald Darmanin will resume consultations with the elected associations next week. As I am committed to it, all measures will have to be included in the 2020 Finance Bill in order to ensure visibility for mayors. We have chosen to concentrate the entire reduction in income tax announced by the President of the Republic on the working middle classes. The tax rate for the first instalment of income tax, which comprises 12 million households, will be reduced by three points, representing an average household gain of 350 euros, i.e. one third of the tax on average. It's massive, clear and clean. The next 5 million households will benefit from an average gain of 180 euros. The effect of this reform for the following tranches will be neutralized. These reductions will be voted in the Finance Bill for 2020. Let us be clear: reducing taxes by $5 billion, at one time, will force us to make choices to contain our public spending. Some people sometimes oppose those who would be committed to fiscal balance to those who would really do politics. I believe deeply the opposite. Political responsibility requires the application of principles, the making of choices while respecting reality. [["And Jean-Pierre Raffarin? » on some benches of the LR group]] It is the choice of a great nation, which wants to control its destiny. It is the mark of the prime ministers that inspires me. I am thinking of Pierre Mendès France and Georges Pompidou, Michel Rocard and Alain Juppé.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u15	[[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] What about Manuel Valls?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u16	The real is often our money. The French. The ones we take to finance our public policies or redistribution. Those of our children, because the debts we create, it is our children who will repay them. With this in mind, the President announced the revision of certain tax and social niches. We will focus on anti-ecological niches, niches for very large companies, niches that reduce employees' social rights, such as the specific lump sum deduction. In each of these sectors, consultation has shown that change is possible if it is gradual. We have learned from the carbon tax, and we will therefore lead these reforms by allowing companies time to adapt. Bruno Le Maire and Gérald Darmanin will indicate the Government's choices in early July. In the name of social justice, again, we must better involve employees in the results of the company, and reconnect with the Gaullian idea of participation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The exceptional end-of-year premium announced by the President of the Republic will be renewed for one year in 2020, under the same defiance regime, with a limit of EUR 1000 per beneficiary. In order to sustain this momentum, companies will have to adopt an incentive scheme for their employees before 30 June 2020 in order to pay the exceptional premium. We will help them to do so, by simplifying the conclusion of interest agreements in SMEs, by allowing them to test these agreements for one year instead of three, by making available to them model agreements which can be opposed to the administration. In the name of social justice, finally, we must reconnect with republican meritocracy, with equal opportunities. Too often, our social model is based on compensatory policies that smooth out inequalities without seeking to reduce them to the bottom. France is one of the most redistributive countries in the world, but social determinism is the highest. The PISA studies – an international programme for the monitoring of pupils' achievements – show that the influence of the social environment on school performance is among the highest. [[Same movements]] In this regard, the doubling of CP and EC1 classes in priority education areas, led by Jean-Michel Blanquer, will remain one of the major measures of this quinquennium. We will go even further in the treatment of the difficulties at the root, by making the school compulsory from the age of three, by extending the effort to reduce the number of pupils to the main kindergarten section in the least favoured areas and by limiting to twenty-four pupils the classes of CP and CE1 throughout the territory. Jean-Michel Blanquer and Sophie Cluzel also presented, at the beginning of the week, after months of consultation, the contours of a new public service for the reception of children with disabilities at school. We want to put an end to systems that make solutions for children with disabilities, which too often come back after other children. We will continue the democratisation of access to higher education, with the reform of Parcoursup, which Frédérique Vidal led. Young French people now choose their way by vocation and not by default.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u17	What a bluff!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u18	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This reform, which was said to be impossible, is being done; It's walking and it's fair. There are already 30% more fellows in the preparatory classes in Paris and the IUTs have admitted 19% more bachelors of technology. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To strengthen our social model is to fill the loopholes, to adapt it to individual situations, to invent new solidarity. I am thinking of single-parent families who have expressed themselves very much during the great debate: housing, work, the end of the month, childcare, everything is more difficult when you are alone. That is why, in the poverty plan, we have planned the opening of 30,000 places in crèche and the training of 600,000 professionals. A single family information service will be set up in 2020 to know in real time the places of nursery and nursery assistants available. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, as of June 2020, the Government will put in place a new system to protect individuals alone from the risk of unpaid maintenance payments. Upon a decision of a judge, or on request in the event of payment incidents, pensions will be automatically deducted by the CAF to be paid to their beneficiaries and the CAF will initiate a recovery procedure in the event of an unpaid payment. When life is hard, every euro counts, every day counts, we must not add anxiety, tension, insecurity and leave families alone in the face of uncertainty about the payment of pensions. I'm thinking about our health care system. We are all shocked by these images of saturated emergencies, of stretchers piled up in the corridors, of professionals chaining up the hours and the patients. Agnès Buzyn provided first answers last week, to better recognize the commitment of professionals and modernize the premises. But everyone knows that the emergency situation is a deeper evil. Our ambition is to transform the health care system, both in the city and in the hospital, to put an end to crises that undermine the trust of caregivers and patients. The law presented by Agnès Buzyn will soon be passed. It's a great law of transformation. The challenge will then be execution. We'll be on the rendezvous. For the moment, I appeal to the sense of responsibility – it is immense – of all health professionals, public and private, to gather around the directors of ARS, in order to coordinate their summer presence and anticipate the points of tension to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u19	Unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u20	I am also thinking of the Government's fight for equality between women and men, together with Marlène Schiappa, in the areas of equal pay and the fight against discrimination and violence. I am thinking of the millions of caregivers who stop working or who reduce their activity to look after a loved one. We will ask the social partners to take up this issue and consider how these situations can be taken into account in the calculation of pensions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am thinking of all those who are lost in the face of the complexity of our welfare system and for whom we are preparing for the future universal income of activity. The consultation has begun: it will lead to the introduction of a bill in 2020. Act II, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u21	There's no act II!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u22	... it's responding to the challenge of an ageing population. This is one of our great societal challenges. Some talk about a revolution of longevity. Even if we haven't done anything in years, we've been too late to really confront it, not only because the budgets at stake are huge, but also perhaps a form of denial. We all see it with our parents or grandparents: despite the dedication of caregivers, families and caregivers, we are poorly prepared. It is our gaze that must change, the one we take on the place of older people in our society and the role they can play in it. We need to hear their willingness to age at home and not focus on a single solution, we need to also hear from families that bear a significant financial burden and are often caught up between their obligations as children and those of parents and even grandparents. Finally, we need to hear from the staff, whose profession needs to be improved. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Minister of Solidarity and Health will present at the end of the year a bill that will define a strategy and the programming of the means necessary to take charge of dependency. As soon as the next Social Security Financing Bill begins, we will begin a first step, with measures to support home retention and investments in EHPADs. We have promised this great reform of dignity and fraternity for ten years: we will lead it and it will be another great social marker of this quinquennium, perhaps one of the most important. The other great challenge of our generation is the establishment of a universal pension system. Today we have 42 schemes, which provide a good overall level of retirement: France is one of the few countries where the standard of living of pensioners is slightly higher than that of the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u23	Overall...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u24	However, our system is neither simple nor fair. It penalizes short or chopped quarries. This is known. There are also legitimate concerns about its future and funding. High Commissioner Jean-Paul Delevoye has been working intensively since January 2018. In July, he will present his recommendations for a universal system that will strengthen intergenerational equity, the protection of the most fragile and the confidence of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This new system, which we will introduce in a very gradual way, will be based on a simple principle: the rules will be the same for all, i.e. 1 euro contributed will open up the same rights for all. This system will also be more redistributive, as it will reduce the gap between the lowest and the most affluent pensions and between men's and women's pensions. Finally, it will guarantee, as the President has requested, that people who have worked their entire lives will receive no less than 85% of the SMIC. We all know that these principles are right but require profound changes. In the case of civil servants, for example, whose pensions are currently calculated over the last six months without premiums, the new method of calculation, over the entire career and on the whole remuneration, will have to lead us to revalue the career profiles of certain professions, I am thinking in particular of teachers. [[Mr. Saint-Martin applauds]] The same rules for all, it is true, also means the end of special schemes, which will be carried out very gradually, without changing the conditions of departure for people who already have plans for their retirement and retaining the entire acquired rights. What matters is the target to which our regimes will converge; To reach this target, it takes time and flexibility. We will give ourselves a chance to succeed in this transformation. Finally, the President said, we need to work longer. This is the key to the country's success. I can see that this is worrying. But the reality is that it is also a matter of justice. Continuing to retire two years earlier than the average age of other European countries is asking our children to finance this gap.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u25	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u26	The French are also lucid: already, the average retirement age is higher than the legal age, because our compatriots have understood that, thanks to their work, they could benefit from a better pension, and they are right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u27	No Frenchman will believe you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will therefore maintain the possibility of leaving at sixty-two years, but we will define an age of balance and incentives to work longer. This will allow everyone to make their choice, in freedom and responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u29	No freedom, no restraint!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u30	The condition for this choice to exist is that unemployment declines: that is why we will launch a major plan to improve the conditions and level of employment of seniors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u31	What a hypocrite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u32	Act II is also a response to a number of fears, fears that have been expressed during the great debate and that have been expressed for years in the public debate. All are based on a sense of loss of control: loss of control over world developments, technological progress, real or perceived threats, violence. There are several ways to understand these concerns or fears. We can stir them up to take advantage of it. We can deny them, to avoid asking difficult questions. I believe above all that we must confront them, by showing our fellow citizens that, on all matters, the Republic has the means to maintain control. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Maintaining control means first of all ensuring public order for all and throughout the territory. One of our first decisions was to launch a comprehensive plan for the recruitment and equipping of law enforcement personnel and to give them the means to do so. There was an emergency: we were leaving from a distance. Another decision was to concentrate the forces in the republican reconquest neighbourhoods, where delinquency and incivilities had skyrocketed. The first results are here: in 2018, thefts with weapons fell by 10%, burglaries by 6% and vehicle thefts by 8%. Over the next 12 months, our priority will be to combat drug trafficking that gangrene entire sections of our territory, which involves harassing outlets, neutralizing distribution levels and dropping network heads. We will make the organizational changes necessary to achieve these operational results.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u33	Put people where they need them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u34	It looks like you've just come to power: after two years, what a confession of failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u35	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I also asked Christophe Castaner for a plan to combat free violence. The French can no longer take the blows of knives given for a bad look or battles arranged between rival bands. We must not let anything pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u36	Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u37	To succeed, we will have to finalize the reforms that our law enforcement forces have long been waiting for on working time, on overtime,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u38	You didn't pay them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u39	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ...on loyalty in posts and territories. In order to translate these guidelines, the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State will start drafting a White Paper on internal security as well as a future programming law this summer. To maintain control is to maintain constant vigilance against the terrorist threat, it is to continue to close radicalized places of worship, it is to continue the systematic expulsion of illegal foreign nationals from the FSPRT, the register of reports for the prevention of radicalization of a terrorist nature. We have expelled more than 300 of these illegal aliens reported to the FSPRT in the last 18 months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u40	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u41	Maintaining control also means continuing intelligence recruitment efforts: there will be 1900 before the end of the quinquennium. To maintain control is finally to affirm our singularity and independence in the world, a world that is dangerous and that will remain so, a world in which France, tirelessly, seeks to carry the voice of peace and stability, by continuing to promote multilateralism against the law of the strongest and by investing in development aid. In addition to the increasing resources we devote to it, to reach 0.55% of GDP, the whole of our system needs to be reviewed. A mission is under way and I know that the parliamentary committees have made many proposals. The President of the Republic will hold a Development Council in July and, following the G7 meetings this summer, Jean-Yves Le Drian will prepare a bill that will be tabled in Parliament in the fall and discussed in 2020. [[Ladies and gentlemen Members rise and applaud at length]] France must also remain able to fight its enemies: in Syria where the end of the territorial Caliphate is a victory, but does not mark the end of the threat, and in Mali, alongside our allies. I know you will all join in the tribute I want to pay to those who risk their lives to protect ours. My thoughts go to their families, especially those who have been bereaved this year. In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, my Government has sought to empower our armies to defend us. On 13 July, the President promulgated the military programming law to gradually increase our defence effort to 2% of GDP. This is a massive effort, but it is also a matter of being constant and coherent. To fight the country's fears, to show that we remain in control, is to have the courage to face certain realities, particularly regarding migratory pressure, without false modesty. This reality is a number of asylum seekers which fell by 10% in Europe last year, but which continues to rise by around 22% in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u42	Yes! We told you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If we are to welcome and integrate those who join our country, we must control these migratory flows. This fight is, of course, first of all European. The President of the Republic has announced this: France will, in the coming months, with many European partners, be carrying out a comprehensive re-foundation of Schengen. We will also have to shoulder our responsibilities at the national level. The right to asylum is a treasure. We are devoting considerable resources to this. It is the price of fidelity to our values, but it is also for this reason that we must fight firmly against abuses. We will, of course, continue to offer asylum seekers reception and social protection conditions consistent with our principles. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] But we must ensure that asylum seekers choose France for its history, for its values, for its language, not because our system would be more favourable than that of a neighbouring European country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u44	Stop saying that, that's not what they're looking for! Are you talking about Italy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u45	Ask the Greeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The substance of my conviction is that these subjects should be progressively harmonised in the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These questions are difficult. They raise passions. They affect the foundations of our sovereignty and our principles. It is therefore necessary to debate it on a regular and open-ended basis with Parliament. Therefore, as announced by the President of the Republic, the Government will hold an annual debate in Parliament on the orientations of immigration and asylum policy. The first will take place next September.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u47	With a vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u48	Like Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Combating fears also means fighting Islamism and bringing secularism to life. The Government will accompany Muslims in the construction of an Islam where French believers exercise responsibility. We will not do it in their place, but we will give them the means, first of all to fight Islamism and hate speech on social networks. I welcome Laetitia Avia's bill, which will give us the tools we need. Then we will give them the means to reform the organization of Muslim worship.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u50	Organize the cult? Is that secularism?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Local foundations of Islam in France took place last summer. There was a broad consensus in favour of departmental structuring. It is important that these expectations be addressed. Finally, Islam of France must recruit and train imams in France, who speak French, and gradually put an end to the system where many imams or psalmists are chosen and paid by foreign states. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If there is a need for legislation to ensure respect for public order and to increase transparency in the financing of cults, especially when such funding is foreign, the Government will propose them to you, without calling into question the 1905 law or the free exercise of cults. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, on several benches of the MODEM group and on some benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups]] Fighting fears means putting consciousness back into science, paraphrasing a famous formula. It is to determine what is permitted and what is not in areas where everything becomes technically possible. The general statements of bioethics were completed a year ago. Parliament has also dealt with these issues. The bill which the Government had undertaken to prepare to draw the conclusions of that work was ready. In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, it authorizes the use of medically assisted reproduction – LDCs – for all women. On some issues, such as access to origins, the parentage regime in the case of LDCs with third-party donors, several options were possible, and the Government chose those that it considered most likely would allow for a calmed debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u52	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group. – Several Members of the LaREM Group rise and applaud]] The bill will be adopted in the Council of Ministers at the end of July and can be debated in Parliament at the end of September, just before the budget discussion. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I am fortunate to have three exceptional ministers in my government: a doctor, Agnès Buzyn; a lawyer, Nicole Belloubet; a scientist, Frédérique Vidal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The debates you had with her, which I had with them, were of great quality. I am convinced that we can achieve a form of calm, deep, serious debate that meets the demands of our country. That's my ambition, anyway. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Fighting fears means looking to the future with confidence, investing in intelligence, reconnecting with the spirit of conquest. The state, which should reason as a strategist for the long term, is too often stuck in the short term, in the political management at six months, while companies or local authorities deploy action plans at ten years, invest, motivate their employees, seek, discover. We must, as the President has invited us to do, draw a long-term collective perspective for our country, give visibility to everyone on the goals of the nation, at least on the horizon of 2025: building a productive pact; catching up in robotics, as we are catching up in digital; becoming the main hub of artificial intelligence in Europe; to become at all points the most attractive nation, for tourism, health, industry. Let us offer young people reasons to commit themselves to the environment, to development, to isolated territories, through the universal national service, which we are beginning to deploy this year. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Let us define a new ambition for research and higher education. I will refer you to a programming and reform bill in the spring of 2020. [[Mr Studer applauds]] Let us fight the fears, the retreat, and defend what the President of the Republic has called "the art of being French", that is also art in short. In the field of culture, of course, we will continue the deployment of the Culture Pass. We will reaffirm, in the context of the audiovisual bill, which will be discussed in Parliament at the very beginning of 2020, the role of public audiovisual in the dissemination of culture. We will defend the national heritage, a heritage with which, as we saw during the disaster of Notre-Dame Cathedral, the French have a strong and intimate relationship. Act II is at last played in the reform of the State, not in the bureaucratic sense often given to it, but in the sense given to it in 1935, or in 1958, when the Republic was already seeking to reconnect with the people. I have already mentioned before you the "wall of distrust" which has risen over the years between the French and those who represent them, or who administer them. I have also noted with you the need for proximity and participation that has been expressed in the great debate. We will not meet these expectations with simple adjustments. It is the whole of public action, "from floor to ceiling", if you allow me the expression, which must now be transformed. [[Exclaims on several benches]] A year ago, we introduced a constitutional bill and two complementary, organic and ordinary bills. Circumstances did not allow their examination,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u54	What circumstances? Benalla, is that a name that scares you?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u55	...but discussions continued, particularly with the Senate and its Speaker. The events of recent months have reinforced our conviction that these texts are useful, and the great debate has allowed us to enrich them. The guard of the seals is ready to present three new texts in the Council of Ministers as of this month. These texts are at the heart of the commitments of the President of the Republic, including the inclusion of the fight against climate change in Article 1 of our Constitution. They are refocused on three priorities: the territories, with the authorization of differentiation, the easing of the framework for Corsica and the overseas territories; citizen participation, with a new title in the Constitution, the transformation of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – into a citizens' participation council, the possibility of forming citizen agreements drawn by lot, the facilitation of the use of the referendum of shared initiative, and the extension of the scope of Article 11; Justice, finally, with the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the abolition of the Court of Justice of the Republic. At the same time, steps have been taken to reach consensus with the Senate. The provisions relating to the functioning of the assemblies have been withdrawn: we have considered that it is for the assemblies themselves to decide on their reforms. The provisions on the cumulation of mandates over time have been relaxed to exclude mayors of small municipalities and to provide for a gradual entry into force. The President of the Republic has agreed to review his proposal to reduce the number of parliamentarians by one third in order to achieve a reduction of one quarter, which allows for fair territorial representation and the introduction of a significant dose of proportional representation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The reality today is that we are close to agreement on the constitutional bill, but that is not yet the case on the organic bill, and in particular on the issue of reducing the number of parliamentarians. The Senate was very clear that there would be no agreement on anything if there was no agreement on everything. So we will continue to seek to move closer, but we will not mobilize parliamentary time to finally see the Senate disagree. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We do not abandon our ambitions, which we believe are in line with the demands of our fellow citizens. We will await the propitious moment and the manifestation of the will of the Senate, which may not come until after the renewal of the High House in 2020. We can also vote only in proportion to the Assembly, without changing the number of deputies, and the President of the Republic has the right to question directly the French about the reduction in the number of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u56	A referendum!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u57	Shit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u58	A referendum is a very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u59	My conviction is that we must not resist the desire for change expressed by the French. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Transforming public action means reforming our administrations and our public service, both in Paris and on the ground. Following a long preparatory work, I signed two instructions that are reshaping our administrations, in Paris and on the ground. By January, 95% of the administration's individual decisions will be taken as close as possible to our fellow citizens, on the ground, and not in Paris anymore. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Local services will be strengthened, reorganized for greater coherence, with central administrations being lighter and more agile. At the same time, we will complete the review of the Public Service Transformation Act by the summer and give managers more power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u60	Who are the managers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u61	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Thirez mission is starting its work on the senior public service, to thoroughly renovate its recruitment, training and career management. This is a crucial issue for the State, because being able to benefit from well-trained and dedicated elements has always been essential to the State and to France. I will personally deal with the operation, implementation and implementation of this reform. Public service is a republican promise, especially for isolated territories, rural areas, neighbourhoods, overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u62	You're not doing anything for the countryside!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u63	The public service is people, a reception, a council. No matter where you live, you have to be able to meet one of its representatives. This is the meaning of the creation of France Services houses that the President of the Republic wanted. For several years, public service homes have tried to provide an initial response. Some already do so remarkably. I saw it recently in Montmoreau, Charente, but recognize together that public service houses are very varied and offer very different levels of service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u64	They're not open everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u65	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We must therefore change our scale and logic, starting from the needs of our fellow citizens, going beyond the borders of the administrations, forgetting that we are here the state, here the department, and here again the primary health insurance fund or the family allowance fund. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This means simple things, such as expanded opening hours, versatile agents, trained, able to offer answers immediately, to accompany to the right front door. By 1 January 2020, we will have created 300 fully operational France Services houses that meet these very demanding criteria and, by the end of the quinquennium, we want to have at least one for each canton. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] I will also be pleased to sign the convergence and transformation contracts with the ultramarine communities before 14 July, which implement our economic and social development objectives in these territories and which are firmly in line with the ecological transition. I want to reiterate to our ultramarine compatriots, as I did in my first policy statement, our willingness to enforce in all circumstances what I called an "overseas reflex". We will keep our commitments. Transforming public action is, at last, responding to the aspiration expressed strongly in the great debate for simplicity and proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u66	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u67	For my part, I am in favour of a new act of decentralization,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u68	What about Alsace?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u69	... but I know that it takes time and that the positions of the territories are less united than we would all like. It's quite normal, by the way, because our system has become complicated. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] My conviction is that we must first strengthen the mayors, who are popular with our fellow citizens, in order to respond to the sense of territorial divide. I therefore propose that you proceed in two steps. First, by taking measures to encourage the engagement of mayors. These measures will be brought together in a bill that the Government will be presenting in July and which I will propose to the Senate to consider as soon as the bill comes back. Then we will have to agree with the elected officials and their representatives on the best method of clarifying the famous territorial millennium. We need to move towards clearer competences, greater responsibilities and clear funding, as the President of the Republic has invited us to do. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the banks of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] Tomorrow I will seek approval of the Government's policy in the Senate. My predecessors did little – and again, only when the Senate was clearly in the majority. Agree with me that this is far from the case with regard to my Government... I will therefore go to the Senate tomorrow, without thinking back with a majority, but this will be an opportunity for the Government to detail this territorial chapter of Act II. The vote will make it possible for everyone to vote, and for all of us to see more clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u70	A little calm, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u71	[["Ah! » and other exclamations on several benches of the LR and GDR groups]] [["You recognize him! » on several benches of the LR group]] I called overtaking to meet the challenges. But I recognize that the Government must also move beyond its habits and inclinations in order to change its method. The sense of urgency has sometimes led us to make quick and not sufficiently concerted decisions. It's always a mistake and, in the end, it's wasting time. In this third year of responsibility, we want to change our way of governing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u72	Listen to the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u73	We are and will remain reformers, but we must involve the French more in the making of our decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u74	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u75	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] The transformations we have undertaken, many of our fellow citizens thought that we were doing them without them; Some even believed that we were doing them against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u76	Of course, they're lucid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u77	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am thinking in particular of pensioners and French people from isolated territories. It is up to us to convince them that we do them for them, to change our method to make them with them. It is the meaning of national mobilization that brings together in the elected territories, social partners, associations and services of the State to identify what needs to be changed in the service of employment and ecological transition. It is also the meaning of the development of a form of direct democracy, because the great debate is not a parenthesis, but a fundamental need of our democracies. Finally, it is the meaning of this attention that we must pay to this famous "last metre" which sometimes separates a decision taken in an office of the French, which alone counts. [["Ah! » and other exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Change of method is also a change of tone. All of us! [[Persistent exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] The determination, the conviction, the passion...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u78	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u79	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Interruptions on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the Prime Minister is invective when he speaks, perhaps to try to make him lose his calm. It's worth it. I'm inexhaustible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – "Congratulation! » on several benches of the LR group]] [[Clarifications on several SOC and GDR panels]] Changing your method is changing your tone. The determination, the conviction, the passion that we put to defend our ideas – which are not identical – should never lead us to arrogance, aggression, caricature. Let us look with clarity at our political scene and our media debates: they are not always up to the stakes. I don't teach any lessons and I don't exonerate myself from any responsibility in this area, but we have beautiful and true questions to deal with, which deserve better than shortcuts, outrages or postures. These beautiful questions deserve, too, that we disappoint our old habits,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u80	Where's Benalla?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u81	...that we depart from these aged scores that make us play, most often, the same tired regains. We can do so much better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u82	Did you tell the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u83	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Extended applause on the same benches]] France, which is often beautiful in tradition and permanence, is never as great as in effort and overtaking. In the land of Enlightenment, it is never the argument of authority that must prevail. In the land of the Enlightenment, we doubt and respect each other. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I do not resist the narrowing of the public debate and I hope that we share the hope of a resuscitation, without eliminating our differences. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is a nice word, which comes from the harsh and grave Roman republic, but which sometimes seems to be lacking in our democracies: it is that of "civility" – a civility that goes beyond the politeness of the facade and which concerns, in essence, the respect that one owes to any member of the same community. If you will, it is the second term that I would like to put at the heart of our project after the overrun. To mark the respect that we owe to ourselves, members of the Government and Parliament, and that we owe to the French – the consideration that everyone has the most fundamental right to claim. Ladies and gentlemen, our roadmap is clear for the coming year. It's dense. But our vision for the country goes well beyond a year of work, however intense it may be. We wish to reconcile France with itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u84	How do we finance it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u85	Our country, which has everything and that the world craves, has lost confidence. In any case, millions of its citizens have lost confidence in him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u86	In you, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u87	This trust, we want to rebuild it, by reconnecting with the idea of gathering, for our country needs unity and respect, by reconnecting with the idea of power, a pledge of our greatness and our ways of life, and by putting the human back at the heart of our concerns. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] A France faithful to itself, an industrial, military and cultural power, a working, solidarity and ecological France, which draws from what it produces the resource of social justice and which does not live to the credit of its children or their environment. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud very much. – Some members of the IDU and independent group also applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you to honour the commitments of the President of the Republic and faithfully implement the fullness of what I have just announced to you. And I have the honour to place before the National Assembly the responsibility of the Government that I am leading on this programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u88	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud]] Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u89	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Prime Minister is asking for the confidence of our assembly. Nothing obliges him, except the moment that is so special in our country and that requires all of us, representatives of the nation, lucidity, gravity and courage. The six months we have just lived, between the break-up of the yellow vest movement and the European elections, have, for the second time in two years, completely changed our political landscape. More than ever before, the Government and our majority have to face great challenges, the success of which will have nothing less to do with the destiny of our fellow citizens, the democratic stability of our country and its ability to make its voice heard in Europe and in the world. The current situation presents paradoxes that could easily mislead us if we did not have the proper reading. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] First paradox: the social crisis, whose yellow vest movement was the symptom, erupted as the first positive results of our policy emerged. After two years of power, we already have a record. Unemployment has been at its lowest in a decade,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u90	Not in La Réunion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u91	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] ...500_000 jobs have been created and industry is no longer destroying them. Business investment is growing rapidly. Purchasing power will increase this year by an average of €850 per household, the largest increase in 15 years. The country's attractiveness to foreign investors is growing, which is essential for growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u92	What about the debt?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u93	No triumphalism in these irrefutable findings, but the pride of the work done by our majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u94	Public finances are no longer a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u95	... and the evidence, brilliantly administered during the great national debate, that the crisis of confidence that still strikes our country draws its origins from an older past and a deeper uneasiness – a past that we still have to pay off, an unease that we always have to heal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Second paradox: in the last European election, despite the strength of the national-populist vote, our fellow citizens gave the list supported by our majority an unprecedented score to an intermediate election – which is, moreover, after an acute social crisis – and they heavily sanctioned the parties that had preceded us in power for decades. This political credit, indisputable and valuable for the rest of our action, is not a blank cheque. It allows us to act with unbroken determination to reform, transform and mobilize, but it does not allow us everything. The peak line is the programme drawn up by the President of the Republic at the end of the great national debate and whose general policy statement, Prime Minister, defines the concrete and planned implementation, now known as Act II of the quinquennium. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Third paradox: the movement of yellow vests has lost its intensity, but no one, at least not us, imagines that the social, territorial, digital, ecological fractures that our country suffers from have been reduced in such a short time, when they had been dug so long. We will carry out without delay and eagerly the programme that you are proposing to us, Prime Minister. We know that you and we are starting a background race rather than a sprint. There is not a minute to lose, but we owe this truth to the French: the continuation of the reparation of the country, already well committed, will still take time, a lot of time. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] These three paradoxes are sufficient to characterize the ambition of the mission that awaits us. It is, moreover, only the mirror of the truly upsetting changes that our country must achieve. The will, consistently reaffirmed for the past two years by our fellow citizens, to combat political cards is proof of their intimate awareness that these transformations require new answers and revisited methods. They must free themselves from the worn-out codes that have hampered the action of governments in recent years. Their future is of legitimate concern to the French. But the message they delivered to us on the occasion of the great national debate is no doubt: "We are ready to face this future," they told us, "provided that you take it differently in the way of governing the country, with us, and not only for us. This injunction obliges us. Putting the human at the heart of everything, said the President of the Republic, at his press conference on 25 April. We have also heard this demand in your remarks, Mr Prime Minister, and the working Republic Group will endorse it throughout the programme that you are inviting us to carry out with your government. Putting the human at the heart of everything is first of all to bring the French together around a collective dream.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u96	It's expensive, your dream!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u97	I know the preventions of the term "dream" in politics. From dream to utopia, from utopia to lies, there are steps that no one responsible can take the risk of passing. Yet I say this clearly here: over the course of forty years of an exhausting crisis, our country has lost its raison d'être; our nation, which unites it; Our Republic, its landmarks. He relies on us to regain his raison d'être, to regain his unity, to re-approve his landmarks, to build and live his dream. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This collective dream will be ecological, social and European. Ecologically, to succeed in this transition that becomes the universal cause of our century, especially for our youth. Social, to build this inclusive society for the benefit of the most fragile populations, and also conquer the new rights accompanying the social, territorial, demographic, sociological, entrepreneurial, ecological, technological upheavals, faced by the old models are demonstrating their obvious limits; This is also the case for women, in a constant fight against discrimination, which is a major cause of our quinquennium. Finally, because, as we have shown during the recent election campaign, our country cannot build its future without Europe, let alone against it. Mr Prime Minister, in the programme you have just presented to us, there are all the elements of this ecological, social and European project. I don't need to list them again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u98	How do you finance all this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u99	Let me briefly highlight the four topics that are strategic priorities for the current parliamentary group in the Republic. Firstly, the acceleration of the ecological transition: our majority does not have to be ashamed of the work done in the last two years, but we must act faster and stronger, with a view to the exit of fossil fuels and the development of softer mobilitys, in favour of a more sustainable and more profitable agriculture, as well as a much more proactive protection of biodiversity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We know the dilemma against this acceleration and we must resolve it: how can we reconcile economic development with ecology? All our efforts must now be directed towards overcoming it. It is about the future of the planet, the health of our children, the sustainable confidence of our fellow citizens in progress. The solution of this dilemma will only be possible in a new global framework, a fully reinvented productive model, that very one that the pioneers of ecology, to whom we owe so much for having opened the way by facing dominant scepticism, today have so much difficulty in imagining themselves. In our view, this comprehensive and long-term approach justifies an appropriate legislative approach. Along the way, we would be in favour of the study of an environmental programming law, following the model of the military programming law. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. Sarah El Haïry also applauds]] Second priority: the revision of bioethics laws. We wholeheartedly welcome the Government's willingness to hasten its discussion and vote. Medically assisted reproduction will now be accessible to single women and women's couples. We will be proud to keep this promise that we made during the 2017 campaigns, without seeking to win a political trophy or to hit anyone's consciences, but, on the contrary, by helping to set up a quality debate in this House, up to the challenges of these very complex texts. Thirdly, the success of the most emblematic social construction sites: unemployment insurance, pensions and dependency. We know that unemployment insurance reform is regulatory. Nevertheless, it complements a new architecture of the rights and duties of employees and companies, adopted by our assembly over the last two years. We are in favour of everything that promotes and accelerates the return to employment, including the proper use of the lever of compensation. But it seems to us that the efforts that will be required of employees to accept less generous coverage must go hand in hand with the establishment of the widest possible system of bonuses-malus allowing to continue the trend already towards a reduction of short contracts to the benefit of sustainable employment. [[Rires on several benches of the SOC and LR groups]] With regard to pension reform, it will undoubtedly be the illusion – the most striking illustration of the will...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u100	What a lucidity! This is the best time of your speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u101	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u102	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u103	...of our majority to recast our social protection on a much more solidary basis. The creation of a universal system by distribution and by points, prepared by High Commissioner Jean-Paul Delevoye, is expected by our fellow citizens. But the very complexity of the subject and the concrete consideration of the countless individual situations that the reform must embrace will impose on the Government a massive investment so that it becomes the common good of all the French. Our majority, already organized for this purpose, will naturally take their full part. Finally, as much as pension reform, dependency will be one of the major laws of the quinquennium to reassure our fellow citizens of all generations about the profound changes caused by the lengthening of life. On this subject, even more than any other, our parliamentary group, already at work, wishes to take an active part in drawing up the proposals that will be made to the French and the choices that will be made to finance them. Fourth and final priority: the revitalization of territories and public services. We consider, like you, Prime Minister, that the two subjects are closely linked and revolve around the urgent need for proximity expressed by our fellow citizens. We are not unaware of the difficulties that must be overcome in achieving this objective and we support the projects that you have proposed to achieve this. From the clarification of the responsibilities between the State and the territories to the "France service" houses, from the "my health 2022" plan to the "public action 2022" programme, from the revision of the law NOTRE – the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – to the provisions favouring the engagement of the elected one, in particular the mayor, this vast whole, coherent as well as demanding, needs to be engaged quickly, without ever losing sight of the essential role that the commitment and dedication of our officials will play in the success of these transformations. Of course, it will only make its full impact felt over time. It will therefore be important for us to be able to produce rapid and visible results, even if imperfect or incomplete. In no way will our fellow citizens doubt our determination to meet their demands for high-quality public services. An experimental approach will be welcome in this regard. These four priorities do not exclude any other aspect of the very comprehensive programme that we will apply: the transformations of the school, the universal national service, the "pass Culture", the reform of the audiovisual sector, the adaptation of our sports policy, particularly in preparation for the Olympic Games, the national strategy to combat poverty, the fight against unpaid maintenance, the universal income of activity, the security policy protecting the most exposed populations, the announced debate on immigration – we wish it both calmed, realistic and reasonable;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u104	And to the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u105	... it will have to be accompanied by a modernisation of our policy of official development assistance – the permanent adjustment of our action in favour of housing, closer to the needs of our citizens and the realities of the market. All these projects, and many others, will have to pursue the same objective: to gradually transform the deadly spiral of distrust into a virtuous circle of trust in our fellow citizens. We have mentioned the incontrovertible constraint of time, inherent in any major transformation in our country. The picture would be incomplete if we did not also mention the equally compelling financial constraint on this transformation. Our majority can be proud of the fact that in the last two years we have begun a re-establishment of our public finances that none of our predecessors had dared.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u106	Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u107	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] This is the combined result of conventional fiscal adjustments and substantive reforms that are gradually transforming our economic and social model and will ultimately make both public spending and taxation less burdensome and more effective. The social crisis and the strong response to it, complemented by the next confirmed decline in income tax, can slow down the recovery curve, in no case reverse it, let alone jeopardize the transformation of this model. This is the only guarantee of a definitive release of the budgetary constraint and its most threatening manifestation, the weight of our public debt. It must continue to be conducted with the utmost firmness, like, for example, the work on tax niches undertaken by our group at the end of the major debate and which we wish to continue with you. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] "To put the human at the heart of everything" is also to allow the French to build their own dreams, which means giving them the word and listening to them. In its present state, our Constitution does not allow it, at least not enough. That is why our parliamentary group firmly hopes that the new constitutional reform proposed by the Government will succeed. The referendum of shared initiative, the conditions of which will be relaxed, and the future House of Citizen Participation pave the way for this deliberative democracy demanded by our fellow citizens, without endangering at least our representative democracy. The introduction of proportional representation will clearly also be a factor of respiration and a guarantee of better democratic representation. Aware of the political risks – beyond our control – to institutional reform, our group believes that there is no need to wait for it to succeed in radically changing the situation in the French-to-policy relationship. The great national debate has shown, against skeptics and mistrusters, that dialogue can take place within a framework that was not just institutional. At its conclusion, at this rostrum, I suggested a few weeks ago that the great debate should never end. It's up to us. It is in this spirit that our group very much welcomes the citizens' convention for ecological transition or national mobilization for employment and ecology. We will also have to make proposals to your Government, this time, on the revitalization of social democracy, in the coming day, as we committed ourselves to it during the Great Debate. I am talking here about trade unions and the world of associations, with their respective responsibilities very different but all decisive players in our collective life and who, like all others, can and must see their role better recognized and, where appropriate, evolving. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Prime Minister, the La République en marche group will vote for confidence...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u108	No joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u109	It's the scoop of the day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u110	What a scoop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u111	We were scared!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u112	...as he did every time you asked for his vote. At this stage of the discourse, it is customary to associate this assertion with nuances or conditions. Trust would rhyme with vigilance or go hand in hand with demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u113	Or with arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u114	It is not at all the spirit that enlivens us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u115	It's the spirit of submission!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u116	The godillots on command!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u117	On the other hand, the crisis of last winter, the way we planted the first seeds of its resolution and the lessons of the great national debate have taught us a lot about how we govern. The French, as I said, want us to bring them together around a project, and the gathering, as well as the necessary consideration that goes hand in hand, counts at least as much as the project itself. The gathering of the French begins with that of the whole majority, this majority that our fellow citizens, defying all the laws of political weightlessness, chose to give to the President of the Republic in 2017 to realize the programme on which they had elected him. The role you will play, personally, in the success of this gathering will be decisive, gathering in scrupulous respect for the diversity of our majority, which is also its main wealth, and making the balance of its political sensitivities the constant point of support for your action. [[Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud at length]] The Republic Group on the move trusts you, Prime Minister, mutual trust, of course, as a guarantee of our collective success in the service of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u118	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u119	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Prime Minister, I cannot question your sincerity or your willingness to do well, but this new policy speech, this so-called take-over of Matignon, this pseudo-act II of your quinquennium is above all a little warm-up cache-mere without any serious funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u120	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u121	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Warmed because nothing really justified this speech. You have not changed your Government and you have not been renamed by the President of the Republic. Warmed because nothing has really changed and the stand-up and self-satisfaction exercises continue tirelessly. [[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Today you want to surf the results of the European elections, which you would be wrong to consider a success for your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u122	What about you, for your side?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u123	Unfortunately, the reality is much less pink than you want to present it to us. The reality is that you can't straighten the country and you have deeply divided the French. The reality is that Emmanuel Macron's election had undoubtedly given rise to hope among the French, but the latter moved from hope to doubt, then from doubt to disappointment. The reality is that the enthusiasm aroused at your beginnings has been dubbed for two years. Doubtful of your unjust and brutal fiscal policy, dulled by the ridiculous revelations of the Benalla affair, dubbed by an arrogance and contempt which your majority could never leave, dubbed at last and above all by a social crisis which has deeply fractured our country and which you are accounting for today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u124	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u125	In your first general policy speech in June 2017, you undoubtedly had the determined and valiant ambition of a head of government who wanted to reform the country but also wanted to exist in the face of a Jupitian President who had just eclipsed it by convening the Congress in Versailles. You seemed animated by the best intentions and decided to end the disastrous Holland years! You had won the elections and your legitimacy was indisputable, or rather, and it is interesting to make that clear in your case, Prime Minister, you had won them just after you lost them! At that time, we could not assume what your mandate would be, and that is why a majority of Members of Parliament The Republicans chose to abstain vigilantly rather than completely deny the confidence you asked us for in June 2017. We had not been elected on the same programme as the majority, we did not share his vision for France but we hoped that on some subjects we might find ourselves. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Two years later, we can take stock of your action and we cannot endorse it because the reality is that you have confused transformation with communication. Your reforms have been slow to come and we have gradually made a bitter observation of the systematic gap between words and deeds. Permanent disconnection between voluntarism and the reformative ambition of your speeches and the disappointing reality of your actions and actions. If Emmanuel Macron really made a reform every time he announced a reform, he would probably be one of the greatest reformers of the Fifth Republic. Unfortunately, he is very far from that. It's a brilliant story-teller, a great communicator; But he's a poor reformer! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let us take a moment to take stock of your first two years of office. Prime Minister, the first law of a mandate is always extremely informative. It says a lot about the ambition of a majority. It allows us to set the tone of the quinquennium, to carry a vision for France and to breathe a dynamic. This was the case in 2007 with Nicolas Sarkozy's so-called TEPA law of "working more to earn more", which made it possible to challenge overtime, thereby valuing work and merit. This was also the case in 2012 with the "my enemy it is the finance" of François Hollande, which aimed to establish dogmatic egalitarianism. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] But you, Prime Minister, your first law was extremely revealing of your sense of priority for our country. Your first law was not a fiscal collective to lower taxes, revalue work or restore public finances. Nor was it a major structural reform to improve the competitiveness of enterprises. Nor was it a great social law to improve the progress that you are constantly talking about, without ever really explaining the rest of what progress it is about. Nor was your first law a powerful fight against global warming and for the preservation of our environment, which you suddenly put first priorities, pushed above all, we will have understood, by the most electoral circumstances rather than by deep convictions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Instead, your first law was devoted to satisfying some of the public opinion by stigmatizing the elected representatives and removing the parliamentary reserve, which allowed the elected representatives to support the projects and associations of their territory. Instead of tackling the deep and many difficulties of our fellow citizens, instead of trying to make our country fairer, more ecological, more soothing and more competitive, you have chosen to throw a few elected officials out of pure demagogy, to offer you a popularity at little cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u126	Political politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u127	This episode said a lot and the rest did not reassure us. Instead of tackling excessive public spending by undertaking ambitious structural reforms, you have made extremely unfair cuts, by planing APLs by 5 euros to the detriment of the most modest ones, by reducing the early childhood care benefit to the detriment of families. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Instead of defending fairer and more sustainable taxation by lowering taxes, you have increased as never before the CSG paid by pensioners before making them drink the chalice until the lie by deindexing retirement pensions from inflation, a first since 1945! Instead of defending a fair and positive ecology, you have harshly attacked and stigmatized all those who do not have an alternative to the car, especially rural and peri-urban people, with an impossible increase in fuel taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u128	It's racket!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u129	In short, instead of being the Government of the purchasing power of the French, you have reduced their purchasing power by 4.5 billion euros in the first year of the quinquennium. You have attacked the middle classes and instead of valuing work, you have cut workers' fuel costs. You wanted to restore the authority of the state, but it has been constantly flouted by the breakers, who have taken the yellow vest movement hostage and created chaos week after week.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u130	[[At 4:45 p.m., Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u131	It is certain that between a minister of the interior who considers the prison "criminogenic" and a goal of prison construction reduced by half compared to the campaign commitment, it is wrong to fight against insecurity! You wanted to control our borders better, but you issued a record number of residence permits in 2018. Over the past two years, legal immigration has increased by 11%, with the pace expected to continue to grow, as well as asylum applications. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] You advocated an exemplary Republic, immediately undermined by the Elysée's attitude towards Mr. Benalla. These "that they come to get me! Even at the very beginning of the quinquennium, the President had dismissed by pure pride General de Villiers, yet he was exemplary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u132	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u133	Emmanuel Macron said he refused a "Republic of Fusibles" but in order to save Mr Castaner, he did not hesitate to sacrifice the prefect Delpuech, whose only wrong was to follow the instructions of the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u135	Lastly, instead of defending and promoting the territories, that Government had been particularly centralizing. Such a policy imposed since Paris has culminated in the uniform obligation to apply the 80 kilometres per hour. You have talked a lot about the girondin pact, but so far you have pursued a recentralizing policy. You seem to want to change from this point of view but we will judge you on the acts, both on the content of your decentralization law and on the electoral charcutage that you are preparing for us. If you keep the proportional and move voters away from their representatives in inhumane constituencies, then you will stick to a recentralizing and jacobine policy. At this point, you will agree, so the record of your first two years is more than questionable and forbids us to vote for trust. Of course, we hope for your success for the next three years because it would be that of France. However, it is our duty as opponents to warn you when your policy does not serve the greatness of France or the happiness of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u136	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u137	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In this regard, do not believe that we reject all your laws, all your measures as a whole and as a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u138	Yes... that was before, that was Bill I!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u139	It is an extremely simplistic and totally false accusation that does not stand up to the examination of the facts and in which we cannot accept being locked up. If we do not share your vision of our country, if we have real and profound differences about your policy, we are perfectly able to be constructive and to vote for the measures that you are taking, that are in the right direction or that we share the objective. Some of your proposals were judicious and we like you to acknowledge the work of several of your ministers, whose technical expertise we recognize. Thus, we passed the labour law; we have passed the law on the evolution of the status of the SNCF; we have passed the law to combat sexual violence; we have passed the law to better protect the personal data of our fellow citizens; we have passed the anti-cassage law; We have passed the anti-tax fraud law and many other projects defended by your majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u140	You're a substitute!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u141	You're in the same vein!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u142	Of all the bills and bills we have considered since the beginning of this Parliament, we have voted 41% of your bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u143	Normal, it's a right-wing government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u144	We rejected 26 per cent and abstained on 33 per cent of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u145	Where is our sectarianism?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u146	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] All these laws are obviously not of the same importance but admit that these figures twist the neck with many of the received ideas...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u147	Colleagues, let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u148	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the same way, during the next three years of the legislature, we will continue to vote without a state of mind for all the texts that will go in the right direction. The case of sectarianism that you sometimes bring to the Republican deputies, who would systematically vote against the Government's texts or even obstruct parliament, is therefore absolutely unbearable. However, we are in opposition and this should inspire your respect because in a large democratic country, a majority needs an opposition, an opposition that is not intimidated by the threats of one of your loved ones making some of your opponents rudely "enemies of the Republic". You should also grasp the hand we extend to you. But you refuse to do so by systematically rejecting the Republicans' bills. You even reject the transpartite texts which, however, concern concrete subjects which should bring us together. As an instructive example, your incomprehensible rejection of Aurélien Pradié's bill to promote the inclusion of students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u149	It was empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u150	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Yet this is an essential question on which we should have found ourselves in good intelligence, in the interests of these children and their families. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, I know your taste for debate and your respect for pluralism. You know that every mandate is based on a healthy dialogue between the majority and its opposition and that one feeds on the other. As a result, it is incomprehensible that your majority, like none before, has resorted to procedural motions that abruptly put an end to the consideration of all opposition bills without even allowing any debate to begin. This is a strange conception of democracy and of this new world you sing about, while, in the end, it is often worse than the old one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u151	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u152	As you sometimes make us believe, therefore, there is not on the one hand the constructive and responsible gentile deputies of the Republic on the other hand, and on the other hand, the wicked deputies of the opposition of the Republicans...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u153	Still... It's being debated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u154	... who want the country to fail. Your vision of things is very manichean. You and the President of the Republic clearly do not like Parliament, which you see only as an inconveniencer, an unnecessary counter-power to the executive, which would make you waste your time and which should be stepped up. You often denigrate the attitude of the opposition and in particular that of the Republicans, but Parliament, the opposition – especially the Republicans – play a crucial role, no matter what you think. Together with my 103 colleagues, we are both whistleblowers and guards. Aimed for our mandate, we are consistently strong on many topics and we have helped you not to be stubborn and to recognize your mistakes. That was the case when we denounced your frightful carbon trajectory that was going to cause tax increases. During two budgetary debates, for hundreds of hours in Parliament, in dozens and dozens of questions to the Government, we have told you that it was a madness and that we had to give it up. Finally, after you were long obstinate, faced with the pressure of the street, you ended up, penauds, following us by abandoning these increases in fuel taxes and freezing your carbon trajectory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u155	You'd better listen to us right away!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u156	As of October 2017, we also stood up against the unprecedented rise in the CSG that you wanted to impose on pensioners. Again, you have been obstinate for a long time before you go back in part to the measures taken. The pattern is always the same. Act I: we alert you to the dangerous consequences of one of your measures; Act II: you make a deaf ear and reject all our remarks with obstinacy – certainly are you "too intelligent", as Mr Le Gendre said; And finally, Act III: you finally acknowledge that there is a problem and you follow our recommendations, but too late and too partially.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u157	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u158	This was the case on the 80 kilometres per hour, which you have finally developed without going to the end of the process, on the deindexation of pensions, which we rightly criticized and which you have ended up giving up – although only in part – and, finally, on the restoration of defied hours and the reduction of income tax but, again, in part. As you can see, our role as opposition parliamentarians is ultimately not so futile. You cannot deny our sense of public interest. You've often listened to us. If you hadn't done so late, you might have been able to avoid a social crisis of this magnitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u159	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u160	So, Prime Minister, in the future, do not hesitate to listen to us! Our proposals are on the table and we are constantly at work. You also often make the right diagnosis of the handicaps and ailments our country suffers. It's a good start, but, alas, you don't prescribe the right remedy. You seem aware of the unbearable weight of taxes and taxes that strangle our compatriots but you are increasing them more and more. Consider that since you came to power, the mandatory tax rate has reached the historic record of 45.3% of GDP. Businesses and households now pay more than EUR 1000 billion in taxes, taxes or contributions per year. You are aware of the peril of deficits and excessive public spending, but since you came to power, it has continued to rise and the debt has grown to the point of approaching 100 per cent of national wealth. As for the deficit, it is one of the worst in the euro area and it will grow in 2019 for the first time in ten years. On this issue of budgetary responsibility, the Government has also denied all your commitments and campaign promises. You've abandoned all your goals. You are aware, however, that our companies are lagging behind in their competitiveness, but you are not undertaking the structural reforms necessary to restore their margins and boost activity and employment. For example, a few figures are particularly eloquent. Since 2017, growth has fallen by 39%, French production has slowed by more than 30%, job creation has been halved and unemployment has fallen by only 0.7% since the start of your action against 1.3 in the euro area during the same period. You must agree that your record is not glorious! Also, considering the poor record of the first two years of your mandate, considering your sectarianism vis-à-vis the opposition and your refusal to listen to us, considering your speech – which has not reassured us – considering the risks posed by the reforms that you are preparing for us, we will not vote for the confidence that you are asking for. I wanted to remind the House of the origin of the word trust. Etymologically, the verb confidere does not refer to the idea of blindly giving confidence, by discipline, with eyelets, in the name of the single party. The verb confide, on the contrary, refers to the idea of asking for something from someone, hoping in return for solid assistance. Trust therefore begins first with the one who asks. However, let us plan on this second part of your quinquennium, which we wish you as successful as your first two years were missed. Mr Prime Minister, the worst solution would be to do nothing more and to abandon any desire for reform. On the contrary, it is now a matter of real reform, not just of announcing reforms. Time's running out. We are waiting for you on this great decentralization law to give back decision-making powers to the actors in the territories. We are waiting for you for a courageous and legible reform of pensions, on which we will not accept the smoke you are engaged today. The French must know in full transparency at what age and at what rate they will be able to retire. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We also look forward to an ambitious policy of reducing public spending, the only way to reduce the taxes on our compatriots, in particular on the middle classes, sharply and sustainably. As such, we are the only political party that has put proposals on the table to save €20 billion in one year and to spend half of it on tax cuts. We expect a great deal of firmness on your part with regard to immigration. We are also waiting for you on the subject of secularism. I would like to conclude with a solemn address on the major risks posed by the constitutional reform that you have just presented to us. Apart from the fact that it is not a priority for our compatriots, it has no other ambition than to satisfy a presidential whim. The proportion that you call of your vows is a terriblely corrosive poison, all the more so as it is correlated with a reduction in the number of parliamentarians, therefore, with the creation of gigantic constituencies, moving the deputies away from their fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This double reform will destabilise the balance of powers inherited from the Fifth Republic by weakening Parliament. Above all, it will consecrate the power of parties, political apparatus, to the detriment of the territories, from which the elected ones should be able to derive their legitimacy. You are creating an assembly with two categories of deputies: those who will have a territorial anchor from their constituency, who will know their voters and the land; Those who will be groundless, infiltrated to their party, to whom they will be forever indebted, even if they accept to be corporalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u161	Apparatchiks on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u162	When you see the way you put the deputies of your majority at a standstill, when you see the pressures and blackmail that you do not hesitate to resort to to tie local elected officials to your cause, there is reason to be concerned about the allegiance to the executive of the future chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u163	The scandal of a godillot parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u164	[[Ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group stand up and applaud]] So we will not vote for trust, but we have, be sure, France as an ideal and Parliament as a common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u165	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u166	[[The sitting was suspended at 17.00 and resumed at 17.00, with Mr Richard Ferrand in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u167	The meeting was resumed. Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u168	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Act II of the quinquennium will be that of the people, the French people waiting for a new "at the same time"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u169	It's a good start!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u170	This act II will be that of ambition for the country and attention to each of its citizens, the one who prepares the future of its children by conjugating it to the present of its inhabitants. In 2017, the French overturned the table to elect the youngest President of the Fifth Republic, and they gave him a majority, ours, to govern, because their country no longer kept its promises, because its leaders did not keep theirs. Percluse of renunciations and retreats, victim of quinquennats that lasted two years, France arrested in a world that is advancing, France immobilis in mobile, had stopped giving them chances, no matter what their efforts to seize them. So, Prime Minister, you who, indeed, arrived from elsewhere but shared with us the diagnosis, the project and its urgency, you have with your Government, and we have with the majority, deployed all the energy possible to bring the country back on the move. To move forward where, too often, we had retreated, to reform when we announced the impossible reform, to repair what could be done as quickly as possible and to transform so as not to have to make any more reparations: you wanted, we wanted, to fulfil all the commitments of the President of the Republic because we no longer had the right to miss our word. We have achieved concrete results. Unemployment is falling, growth is rising, the gain in purchasing power is now paying half a rent and tomorrow will pay a thirteenth month for all workers in this country. Yet, according to the provocative title of Hervé Le Bras, the French continue to feel bad in a France that is well. It's our fault, but not just ours. An intellectual objectivity, even a summary, could have led the previous speaker to agree on this. But go, when you're in charge, you even take over the responsibility of others! But it is our responsibility if the French think that what is accomplished for the country does not translate quickly enough, and not for all in their daily lives. Let us therefore carry it, this responsibility, not as a cilice, but as an aspiration to do better and to do with them. As you said earlier, we did not sufficiently address the deep social flaws and inequalities that globalization had created between those who had been able to follow and those who had not, or sometimes would not, because this world was alien to them in a country that had not been able to prepare them for it. As often in politics, the easy caricature came, that of a president of the rich when he was hardly born, that of a president of the metropolises when he was hardly of origin. The French put on a yellow jersey and made us make the Tour de France of the big debate: a great people, an unprecedented democratic exercise, to be repeated regularly! You said that earlier, Prime Minister, and we must be grateful for this humility, which is so rare in politics, our majority was certainly that of France but not enough that of the French. So yes, Act II will be that of the French gathered. At the end of Act I, the country is standing; In Act II, he must walk, and walk together. This is the title of the play: En Marche! And it's the Democratic Movement Group that signs it! We must continue to put the political and social body in motion, but by reaffirming, alongside the French, the horizon towards which we are moving together. Our project is that of a liberated but regulated economy, at the service of a social model unique to the world and of the immense environmental challenge that our generation has the responsibility to meet, a society of shared progress, which corrects the excesses of globalized capitalism so that the fruit of the work of the little ones is no longer captured primarily by the big ones. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM groups and some benches of the LaREM group]] We do not accept that the employee of the industry earns a better living, but mainly enrich the shareholder and finance gilded parachutes, that the building worker should feed more surely the landowner who sold his land, that the farmer should rise every day to survive, but first make the big distribution flourish. We are in favour of the open and free economy, because France has a lot to gain from it, but we assume to regulate it, because there is no calculation of growth that is worth it if it does not take into account our ecological footprints and human development. We want growth and capital, but green growth and capitalism with a human face!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u171	It's an antigenous thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u172	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] So yes, Prime Minister, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement trusts your Government to continue to reform the country by better meeting social expectations. Yes, we need to reform unemployment insurance and all our efforts must be focused on those who are far from employment. Those who have the skills to get back to work must do so without delay, because unemployment insurance is a social cover and not a drawing right for businesses and certain employees allowed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u173	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u174	We also owe to the French this great law of caring for dependency, which concerns all families and engages our individual and collective dignity. We owe them a real reform of pensions, concerted, reassuring and ambitious, like the one we have just accomplished for the public service. In the face of technological challenges, we must be at the rendezvous of the bioethics law, both to keep the word of the President of the Republic and to reflect together on our common living environment. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group.]] In the face of the climate challenge, we must continue our efforts by legislating in favour of the circular economy, of energy, but also of water, in its protection as well as in its management on our dams, because it is a precious asset of humanity. We want a new political ecology, which emerges from symbolic findings, intentions and victories without realism and without effects, which is not satisfied with the status quo, because the French cannot bear everything at once, but which is progressing, leading to and organising effective and irreversible transitions. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] We must face a democratic challenge: to invent a new citizenship. The French want to be better associated and heard by a more interactive democracy, by the vitality of local communities and by a more equitable representation of their national elected representatives. It is essential, as you have pointed out, that we build with the mayors a new republican contract, on local taxation, on the adaptation of the NOTRE law and, we also think, on the engagement of elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u175	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u176	Mayors, it is not a political network, it is first and foremost the daily life of the French and the belt of application indispensable to our decisions! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] On constitutional and institutional review, we have a tremendous opportunity to include ecology, territorial differentiation, participatory democracy, reform of the justice system in the Constitution, and proportional representation in the law. With regard to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, we are working on a common solution with the Senate to achieve a commitment that voters hold. The High Assembly and the Lower House can perhaps join at a common height, that of the expectations of the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u177	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u178	In order to implement this project and these reforms, so that today's political society is no longer, as Camus said, "a machine to despair men", you need a solid and open majority and the French need, we think deeply in the Democratic Movement, a strong Parliament that votes effective laws. Our majority must be proud to look like France, which cannot be itself if it gives preference to the mirror to cultivate its identity rather than to look at the horizon for its future. Of course, we come from the left, the right and the center, but in the face of a problem of the French, we must not wonder whether it sounds left or whether it sounds right, we must bring solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u179	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u180	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the MODEM group and several benches of the LaREM group]] It is because for too long the right has cleaved on societal subjects that France has opened wounds and nourished divisions; It is because for too long the left has denied economic freedoms in principle that it has not been able to control its excesses. The French surpassed the cleavage in 2017, confirming it in 2019; They do not ask us to deny ourselves, but to surpass us for the good of the country. Our majority must not cultivate its differences at a time when, on the contrary, it must be more open to the interests of the country than it is. Our majority will benefit from opening up to new supporters, respecting their differences, rather than cultivating their own. In Parliament, let us not forget to make the law for the people, and therefore to do it right! [[Vif applause and bravos on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] If the law is that of the people, it is not necessarily a list of all the desires of the central administrations. It is the one discussed with the national representative. And while the law is that of the Republic, it is not the receptacle of the marottes of all parliamentarians either. If we want to accomplish everything that is our responsibility, colleagues, let us think less about the nosdeputes.fr website than about the people and what they expect of us! Prime Minister, by asking us if we trust you, you also ask us if you can trust us. The response of the Democratic and Related Movement is of course positive, and it is demanding, vis-à-vis you and your government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u181	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u182	And she is demanding of ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u183	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u184	[[The members of the MODEM and LaREM groups stand up to applaud]] For this trust commits our word to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u185	Bravo, excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u186	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u187	Prime Minister, you are therefore coming to seek the confidence of national representation. You will have at least that of your majority, the most docile of President Macron's docile bodies. What is it really worth then?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u188	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u189	In fact, what is the meaning of this address in Parliament so much, for two years, have you held it in contempt? It must be admitted that we were soon educated about your conception of things, from the Congress of Versailles: any form of opposition would be held to be a refusal to look the world in the face, any disagreement for a cowardice, any contradiction for low politics. It must be said that you were on mission – the mission of repairing fifty years of turpitude, cowardice and incompetence – and guided by a form of positivism, of little science, which made you believe that every solution was obvious and that every reform was naturally the greatest since René Coty. Awfully you took it and the French reminded you of it by endorsing the yellow vest. An episode that caught us all as much as it came from afar, which shook us all in our certainties, with the perhaps exception of the President of the Republic himself, accentuating his plebiscite exercise of power made of rodomontades and staging of himself. Your conclusion to the big debate would make us smile if it was not the perfect and evil synthesis of the impasse where you are leading us: the French want more of our reforms! [[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] You promised, during the presidential campaign, to listen to everyone. Some have hoped for it, others have believed it, but you have ended up listening only to yourself. Climbing parliamentary debate, brutalised social dialogue, deconceived civil society, mass media. If it is a lesson of your majority that everyone will have understood, it is this: when we are not with President Macron, we are against France. You are the specialists of forbidden debates, truncated debates, caricatured debates. By proclaiming "I or chaos," you prepare chaos. Thinking of saving the essentials, the essential thing has become for you to save yourself. Be careful: if before you there was no before, then will there be after you? Thus, educated about your practice of power as well as your intentions in terms of institutional reform – to debase Parliament a little more, to restrain the referendum of shared initiative, to reduce the rights of the opposition, that is to say national sovereignty – we cannot give you our confidence and thus to come to you the rope on the neck as the bourgeois of Calais. In the opposition, our ministry – you will consider it modest or cumbersome – is that of the word and we do not intend to yield an inch of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u190	We expect you to be constructive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u191	While the Fifth Republic is out of breath, it is to a living democracy that we aspire to where, in the name of efficiency and pragmatism, you have only a narrow vision of it. More power for Parliament, more power for the Prime Minister so that he really leads the policy of the nation and is not just a tile through which we see the President, a renewed social democracy, an established citizen democracy, protected counter-powers, this is the path we would like to take – it clearly separates itself from yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u193	I am also afraid that our paths will be separated from what we imagined could still bind us. I am thinking of the question of migration, of the violation of the right of asylum, of the unworthy vilenies of migrants, of the ports closed to the Aquarius, of these pregnant women and of their children. In spite of the circumstances of the election, facing the far right, we did not end up like Aron and Sartre – and yet there was a "strictly human cause".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u195	I am thinking of the situation of Yemeni civilians, victims of this filthy war waged by Saudi Arabia and of the suspicion that our weapons, those sold by France – by all previous governments – are used for this massacre. A suspicion which, at the very least, orders the suspension of exports. Belgium, Germany, Canada seem to be committed to this. It is a petition that resonates throughout the country and on all the benches of the House that you refuse to hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u196	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u197	I'm thinking about press freedom. I am thinking of the attempts to search, the summons of journalists by the Directorate-General for Internal Security, the brutality that they are sometimes subjected to in demonstrations. The Government cannot have for any response that journalists are justiciables like others, because that is not true. I am also thinking of the fact that the law on the fight against the manipulation of information, known as the "fake news" law, or that the law on the protection of business secrecy will have become free to inform. I am thinking of the accusations made at the highest level of the state that the press would no longer seek the truth. I am thinking of this law of circumstance, the so-called "anti-casseurs" law, which admitted the impotence of the Government overwhelmed by unspeakable and perfectly reprehensible violence, but which was an excessive violation of the freedom to demonstrate. However, the Republic, Prime Minister, lives on freedoms: fewer freedoms are always less of a republic. Finally, I am thinking of women's rights, which have been proclaimed more often than in their turn, but which, in Brussels, are confronted with a directive on parental leave, or last night in the Senate, with the refusal to extend the time limits for voluntary termination of pregnancy. Prime Minister, we do not only differ on the conception of the exercise of power or on public freedoms: it is a way of looking at the world that separates us irreparably. The removal of the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – and the reduction of the personalized subsidies to housing were not youth mistakes, they were in fact clearly betraying the idea that you are making of a world shared between the winners of globalization and those who could serve their lives, between the first of the ropes and the last of the ropes. There is in your liberal conception of the world the idea that one would be responsible for its fate and that one could therefore abandon people to what you think to be their fate as losers – those who do nothing and therefore are nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u198	That's the opposite, stop it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u199	Your priority is set in your budget: 8 billion euros for the poverty plan, 25 billion euros for the wealth plan. Nothing, for example, in the measures taken in the aftermath of the yellow vest movement will strengthen tax justice, rebalance taxation between capital and labour, and call for additional efforts from the wealthy. This is your conception of things: to consider the starting line and never the finish line, to admit inequalities for as long as you hold them just. The work must pay for those who work; as for those who do not work, it is probably that they are damaged in idleness, in the comfort of assisted jobs, social minima and unemployment benefits,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u200	But where did you hear that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u201	... while there are so many "mini-jobs" to be filled. This conception of things perspires throughout your policy: your reform of the labour market, the facilitation of economic redundancies, the weakening of the social dialogue enshrine the duality of the labour market; large wages and large protections for some, small wages and small protections for others; a society of poor workers and poor jobs... And if only those could count, at the time of retirement, on taking into account the penitibility of what their profession was! But it's worth it, since you've removed the penitential prevention account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u202	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u203	And by the way, who can say what their retirement will be, so much the Government wishes to postpone, in fact, the retirement age?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u204	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u205	And now, with the reform of unemployment insurance, you turn your back on the welfare state, the welfare state, the French welfare state, our social tradition, to open your arms to the Anglo-Saxon "workfare" and its irremediable damage. Your fetishism blinds you and we will not follow you in this blindness. At least this line has the merit of clarity and your actions are consistent with your words: in other matters, it is exactly the opposite. You claim to be at the forefront of the ecological fight and you don't miss slogans, but you saw Nicolas Hulot leave. You are lagging behind in implementing the low-carbon strategy. You lack will and often courage, as when you refuse to include in the law the date of prohibition of glyphosate or when you reject the ban on the export of products whose use is prohibited in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u206	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u207	The thermal renovation of housing is difficult, the development of renewable energy is insufficient, as young people tell you every Friday. You answer him with selfies... Sometimes you seem to do it, but most often, you pretend. So how can we trust you? It would be, through us, to give you the confidence of the French. It would be to give you the confidence of teachers who defy a minister who corporalizes them, dislikes them, accepts assessments only for others and never for himself and whose good words no longer hide the wrong intentions: to question school democratization. It would be to give you the confidence of the emergency doctors and hospital staff who say they are at the end and to whom the forces of law and order are sent to requisition them. We can't do better with less. To pretend that your project "my health 2022" will solve everything, is to pay false promises with false currency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u208	Who was in the government before 2017?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u209	It would be to give you the confidence of the gendarmes and police officers who are unreservedly engaged, until the exhaustion, in the fight against terrorism, tested by the violence of the demonstrations and who wonder if they have a minister. This would give you the support of the civil servants in sum, as you yield to all the caricatures of functionalism and you remove 120,000 posts, and the public services that go with it. By breaking the status of the civil service, a patiently constructed status, a republican status, you undermine the general interest. It would be to give you the support of farmers who despair that the EGALIM law – a law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all – produces its first effects. It would be to give you the confidence of employees and workers who know that for you, their place is outside of companies. It would give you the support of pensioners, youth, associations, mayors... [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] I'm looking for a way to give you our trust is not possible. Who would we, the opposition, represent if we gave you that trust that the people refuse you? For us, members of the Socialist and Related Group, you have given us what you are: Liberals and Conservatives. You're the right, we're the left. You have put yourself at the service of a few, of those who claim to make history. We will remain at the service of those who suffer it, and of the Republic, until the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u210	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u211	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u212	Prime Minister, the general policy speech you have just delivered must inaugurate Act II of the quinquennium. You will allow me this personal wink: I find it a good augury that it is not this time stunned by a speech that the Head of State would have given the day before – I see it as a change of method and a better appropriation of the spirit of our institutions. Act I ended with the force of things and manifestations. In the last six months, you have spoken solemnly four times in this rostrum. These four close moments when Assembly and Government have come together in a situation of uncertainty show how disturbing, disturbing, often dangerous, the six-month period we have just lived has been, in any case, crucial. Unfortunately, it seems to us that if we had such a period, it was above all because the majority had made the same mistake as all those who had preceded it: to believe that it was always right by the grace of an election. It is, moreover, a little by this fact that you have completed your intervention. [[Smile]] If you want to succeed in an act II of the quinquennium, it seems to us that this change is the most necessary and urgent. The ability to listen, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is not synonymous with paralysis, it is a faculty of training. Being able to take alerts from other ranks for what they are and not for attacks is not a weakness but on the contrary a force. The willingness to accept compromises is not a reshuffle...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u213	Prophecy director?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u214	... a denial, a pardon, but an enlargement. When he talks about project majorities, openness, outstretched hands and the necessary compromises, President Patrick Mignola talks about gold – and no majority has been able to do so so so far. That's what our group has been waiting for since the beginning of the quinquennium! That was the reason why we abstained from hope in 2017 on your first general political declaration. Unfortunately, I cannot give you a successful example that should be replicated. On the other hand, I have some counter-examples, such as the question of the status of family caregivers. Last year, a bill defended by our colleague Paul Christophe and our friends in the Senate, providing for compensation to those French people you are right to recall that they suffer because they are weakened by life, was emptied here of much of its content. However, a few months later, the President of the Republic announced that a statute would be created for those who devote their time to supporting a close relative in a situation of dependence. And when a report commissioned by the Minister of Solidarity and Health called for compensation, we rejoiced because we do not claim any property rights over ideas – not even ours. But we regret the time lost, the hands stretched and not seized. We are waiting for the future to see. However, we want to approach what you consider an act II with lucidity and honesty. Contrary to the usual caricatures according to which the Government has committed only mistakes or known only failures against which we have tried to prevent it, we believe that it also has successes to its credit. Our country has made progress in terms of education, relaxation of working relations, economic attractiveness, which is probably the most important factor in reducing unemployment, and in reducing unemployment, which is even stronger than it seems. In fact, while unemployment appears to have fallen by about 200,000, according to the International Labour Office, this figure must be added to the 800,000 assisted jobs which have been abolished from the public sphere and which have not come to increase the ranks of employment: this means that our economy has about 280,000 fewer unemployed. The situation has thus improved, even though it remains fragile – the employees of Ascoval, in the electoral district of Béatrice Descamps, those of General Electric, in that of Michel Zumkeller, know better than anyone else. After the long weeks of the big debate, the Head of State admitted to having learned about France and the French. He claimed to have changed, and he agreed to come back with humility on mistakes such as the CSG increase for all retirees, the taxation of fuels, which did not serve the environment, or the lack of consideration of local realities, contrary to what we asked, for the limitation of speed to 80 kilometres per hour. We will give you notice of that. However, we remain very concerned about the widening territorial divide between globalized cities on the one hand and rural suburbs and territories on the other, at the risk of their confrontation. In our view, this must become one of your core priorities. France, which succeeds, must benefit all when its situation improves. In this connection, and after hearing you, Prime Minister, I regret the sine die postponement of a constitutional reform which would at least have established the right to differentiation, in our view indispensable to the performance of our territories and to the effectiveness of their policies. On several subjects, you have the merit of catching up with a delay in our country for several years or even decades, despite the alternations. But he sometimes missed the course to go further and, beyond catching up, to get ahead. It is possible, especially desirable for future reforms, which would be all the more meaningful for the French. I am thinking of a comprehensive and ambitious vision of the transformation of our ecological model, or of the reduction of income tax which, from our point of view, should not concern only taxpayers in the first two tax brackets – we say that not for the benefit of the highest income, but because it is necessary to review our country's general tax policy. This cannot be done in three years, but probably it can be prepared, if only for the future. I am also thinking of the programming of means for dependence, which we have been talking about for at least 12 years in the public debate and in the Chamber, and which unfortunately has never been the smallest beginning of reality, although the situation is getting worse. You are right to say that the necessary resources are considerable. More reason to get on with the task as soon as possible, because the time passing, the difficulty is only growing. I am still thinking of the essential reform of pensions and the reindexation of small pensions, or the new act of decentralization long awaited – alas! for the time being deprived of the right to differentiation. We welcome your agenda, but we remain attentive and vigilant as to what its real content will be. We still hope for a new social, fiscal and ecological pact that will tackle the roots and not just the symptoms. This pact can only be built collectively, with all the voluntary political forces, with the local elected representatives, with the reformist unions and the intermediate bodies that must be heard to mobilize them. The problem is not that famous "lack of pedagogy" behind which we saw all the majorities shelter when they encountered difficulties: on the contrary, it is a need for consultation and hands stretched on each project. At the end of your speech, Prime Minister, you said you understood it; We will appreciate the actions. This policy of openness is necessary, not by calculation, but because the unity of the country has been seriously damaged in recent decades. It's to be built. It must be done within a framework of responsibility, not at the financial or environmental costs of the next generation, not on the backs of our children. Reducing taxes with a debt to 2300 billion euros without a serious plan to reduce public spending means satisfying parents by increasing the bill for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u215	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u216	It is also beyond our borders that we need to build answers, directed at the dismal populations of a deregulated globalization. The President of the Republic made the right observation yesterday before the International Labour Organization: when an economic system leaves so many citizens on the side of the road, it becomes illegitimate in their eyes. Reintroduction of fair and protective competition rules for our environment is the only way to restore sustainable confidence, hope. This is particularly true for Europe, which is our only possible tool to weigh effectively in the world and, at the same time, to win back sovereignty lost to major continental powers that use and abuse global deregulation. It is up to us to forge this tool by abandoning the cult of free and undistorted competition which has been obsessing the Brussels Commission for a long time; it is up to us to make the euro a currency that emancipates us from the dollar; to face the Internet giants who loot our data to enrich themselves; to build a European research that avoids the ongoing technological drop-out; to use agricultural policy as a model for spatial planning, environmental preservation and improving health through food; mobilising popular savings to fight global warming – in other words, making the environment a priority not just for us – and imposing compliance with our own environmental rules on the products we import. We know that the political situation in Germany is not making things easier, but it must not make you lose sight of these imperatives. As I was telling you, we expect Act II to finally speak to all of France, the one that supported you in the second round of the presidential election, and above all to address the multitude of those who feel forgotten, of whom you were talking earlier. This is your second chance to do it. Maybe it's the last one. When we rule France, in politics as in other areas, there are no enemies. Those who do not agree 100% with you, are not 100% against you. We must never wait until we are at the foot of the wall to debate and exchange views. "We will not resume the normal course of our lives," said the President of the Republic on 10 December. Nothing would be worse than disappointed hopes, than forgotten lessons, in short, than a partisan retreat, while the delapidated state of our social bond commands the opposite. The IDU and independent political group has been following a constant line from the beginning: it is constructive, as are, in fact, all the French. To be constructive sometimes means to say "no" to make people think, but it is always to say "yes" to the best compromise, provided that it is made possible, which requires to be at least two. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] This has led us, since the beginning of the quinquennium, to refuse automatic, systematic, and ultimately caricatural distrust by virtue of being mechanical. But trust is not an a priori either: it is built by the exercise of reality beyond words and words. That remains our expectation. The IDU and independent group expressed it, in 2017, with an abstention of hope that was not satisfied. Today, for the majority of us, it will be a failure to see the new intentions that you have just displayed translated into action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u217	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u218	Prime Minister, you yourself have recognized that the National Assembly is no longer the same as the one before which you made your first general policy statement. Whether they are elected for the first time or not, the Members to whom you have addressed yourself today are no longer entitled to ignore the despair and distrust in which part of France is plunged. The crisis of the yellow vests, which has lasted for several months, appeals to us all and demands strong and unprecedented answers for the daily life of the French. Whether or not they belong to the majority, the Members you have addressed are deeply affected by the outcome of the European elections. In their vast majority, they cannot resolve to accept that the National Rally has become France's first party and that it is now at the gates of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u219	But their elected representatives are not in the Chamber! As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u220	No doubt they still have in mind the words spoken by the President of the Republic on the evening of his victory in 2017: "I will do everything during the next five years so that those who voted for Marine Le Pen no longer have any reason to vote for the extremes". They all know, in their interior, that this path will be long, that to take it requires to get out of the comfort and cowardice in which the opposition too often falls, that to take it also requires to guard against certainties and the trap of the arrogance which awaits all the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u222	Mr Prime Minister, you are faced with eighteen free women and men who, on the basis of these findings, have made the choice to come together in the Freedom and Territory Group. They have only one compass: the success of France, without leaving anyone or any territory on the edge of the road. For the past nine months, they have brought before you a requirement: that of responding to the territorial, social and ecological emergency that France is facing. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] For this, we did not remain in the incantation or the comments. We acted by taking part in the great national debate, in each of the territories of France, even in the southern hemisphere or with the French abroad. We did so by responding to the questions posed by the President of the Republic in his letter to the French. We also did so with Mrs Sylvia Pinel and Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva, putting forward fifty proposals that would allow our territories to be stronger and more autonomous, proposals that I have addressed to you, Prime Minister. Have we been listened to? I am convinced that, in view of the announcements made by the President of the Republic at the end of the great national debate, which you have just outlined. Will this listening be followed by acts? On the other hand, we are less certain, and the speech you have just given has not removed all our doubts. After a first part of the quinquennium marked by excessive recentralization, fuelling a strong distrust towards intermediate bodies and elected officials on the ground, you understood that it was necessary to rely more on the territories, to better take into account their diversity in order to reform the country. However, our group feels that your act of contrition is not yet an act of conversion. Under no circumstances can a decentralization shock be reduced to a transfer of state services to our territories: do not confuse deconcentration and decentralization! [[Approval marks on the LT benches]] Real decentralization requires a right to differentiation, the allocation of real regulatory power, real experimental power, and fiscal autonomy. The NOTRE law – the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – has profoundly destabilized, disorganized and sometimes damaged our territories. We found it abnormal that you did not announce anything on these matters to Members of Parliament this afternoon, giving priority to the senators you are addressing tomorrow. We must also clarify the powers, and, Mr Prime Minister, there is an urgent need for the State to take over the care of unaccompanied minors from the departments, so that they can play a major role in promoting social cohesion. I am also thinking of everyday life: access to care, mobile telephony and mobility, digital divide are all subjects which the answers you have given are still insufficient. I am also thinking of housing, on which you are making a mistake, as demonstrated by the decline in social housing amenities, and of social home ownership, which needs to be supported more. Finally, I am thinking of the fight against global warming: the answers are not up to the stakes. Prime Minister, trust is not decreed, even if purchasing power increases, unemployment drops, and the attractiveness is back, as you have pointed out. It is built step after step and can only be granted under several conditions. Building trust means letting go and giving up any centralizing temptation. Make sure that your action is nourished by the dialogue and experiences of those who, in the territories, try, innovate and succeed in spite of all the obstacles they encounter! [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] As you know, France cannot be summed up in Paris and a few metropolises. In order for France to succeed, of course, decisions sometimes taken in the alcoves of the central administrations must be able to apply "at the last kilometer" in the territories. We also need to know, and above all, how to start from the last kilometre, from the inside of the country itself, to shape local policies and evaluate them to correct what is not working. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] Building trust, Prime Minister, also means disposing of all hegemonic will. No majority alone holds all the answers: France, it is not In March in larger, you take the risk of failing if you think so. Do not lock France in the trap of a choice between a majority contained on itself, which could then condemn itself to failure, and the National Rally! Offer the French another path, working with all the women and men of good will who want France to succeed. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group – Gilles Lurton and Jean-Luc Reitzer also applaud]] To do this is not to designate mayors as enemies of the President of the Republic, to call them to change their party in a logic of individual debauchery, nor to suggest that elected officials of the Republic might prefer their party to their country. Doing this requires relying on listening, seeking compromises and gathering as wide as possible, respecting the different sensitivities on each project you carry, as Patrick Mignola said very well. That is the nobility of democratic debate. Everyone will then have to take responsibility, and our group will always choose the general interest. With this in mind, Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to ask you the question of trust, on behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group. Are you ready to trust collective intelligence, assuming a true ecological transition? A strong expectation was expressed in the European elections. We do not need punitive ecology, as you have said, as it has been practiced for years, sacrificing the most isolated and modest territories. A green revolution is needed, starting with assigning sustainable development goals to all our public policies and adopting new decision-making mechanisms. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] This also requires a drastic simplification of the constraints on environmental projects, which take five, ten or even fifteen years to complete; and a new role for the regions to accompany the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u224	[[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] Prime Minister, are you also ready to trust our ability to reinvent a social model? This social contract involves the creation of a fifth risk for dependency, combining national solidarity with the insurgency system, and a reform of pensions that really takes account of the penitabilities, long careers and injustices to which women are subjected, by setting up a minimum pension. It also requires a shared approach to the reform of unemployment insurance. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] [[Same movements]] Are you finally ready, Prime Minister, to trust our territories? This requires a strategist state that assumes, as you said, its sovereign missions, not a tentacular state that takes care of everything; We must loosen the stranglehold of the technostructure which now has control over France; and we must finally make real progress in the area of differentiation. I haven't heard much about that! Are you going to create a real autonomous normative power for the territories in the field of law, apart from the sovereign powers of the State? Are you going to substitute for prior legislative authorization an authorization by decree at the request of the territories? Will you reach out, calm down, and open negotiations with the community of Corsica for the establishment of a status of autonomy? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] We have seen a will to that effect in your speech, which did not exist yesterday. Our group is offering you a path, and if you want to take it tomorrow with no ulterior motives, because you are convinced like us that this is the key to making France succeed, we will take our responsibilities. Today, we are still waiting for actions commensurate with the social, territorial and ecological crises in France, and we will abstain mostly on this vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u225	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u226	Prime Minister, I have only ten minutes, and no one will have had time to unravel the heavy catalogue that you have presented to us. So I'm going to the bottom line. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] You come to the National Assembly to ask the deputies to support you for a new stage in your policy after the European elections. The deputies of La France insoumée will oppose it, here by their votes and outside these walls by their peaceful citizen action, as they do with the call for a referendum against your privatization of Paris Airports. Our disagreement is not punctual, as you know, Prime Minister: it is global and presupposes two visions of the world, yours, this Fifth Republic which establishes the presidential monarchy in our eyes everywhere, and this Sixth Republic which we demand, which is democracy everywhere. It is not your person who is being targeted, you are a respected opponent: it is the authoritarian liberal practice of your government that we reject, that of the instrumentalization of justice and the police against oppositions of all kinds; It is the society of extension of inequalities that you develop, it is the world of ecological irresponsibility that you embody because you are absolutely and blindly hostile to any ecological planning – it is normal, since you are an unconditional of free and undistorted competition. [["Ah! » on various benches]] Given our election result...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u227	It's the Republic of 6%!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u228	...I am fully aware of the difficulty of our situation in leading the fight. The balance of power is heavily unfavourable to us. He is here in France, facing you and the far right, but unfortunately he is also in the whole of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u229	That's a question, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u230	Of course, the unsubstantiated Members are now six in Strasbourg when they were only two. But our transnational group lost ten seats. We are struck off the map in several countries. The conditions for the continuation of the fight will therefore be very harsh for us. We'll take care of them. [[Applause on many benches in the FI group and on several benches in the GDR group]] But don't believe that everything is allowed to you on this alone, Prime Minister. I remind you because I can see that you are hardly encouraged to lucidity... Indeed, I have noted that in our country, for a certain press, when opponents do not win an election, they should resign, but when it is power, none of the same suggests it! [["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Prime Minister, do you know that you, too, lost the election? But I can't see that! Yesterday, you recalled that I intended to make the European election a referendum against your policy: but that is true, I did, and that is what happened! Yes, it was a referendum, and you lost it: 80% of the ballots went on lists that were openly opposed to you and 90% of the voters refused to support you! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr Jean Lassalle and Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applaud]] And that's not all: you had launched a solemn challenge to the far right, the President of the Republic saying that if his list were ever to lose, there would be serious consequences. You lost, and yet you want to pretend nothing was. You think you can govern against everyone with 20 per cent of the votes cast and 10 per cent of those registered, and that is to continue to destroy everything from the social and republican state patiently built by previous generations. Therefore, your whole policy is a powerful move against the country! Where is the Republic in this method?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u231	Not at home!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u232	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group and a few benches in the GDR group]] Where are the democracy and sovereignty of the people? Do not object to our present weakness: a single conscience can protest against everything, refuse any rule, provided it accepts the consequences. That's the lesson that Sophocle's Antigone gave us. But we can govern everyone only if we have a popular majority to do so. This is not an individual matter, and in this respect the status of the opponent and that of the ruler have nothing to do with it! You can believe the opposite, but in the meantime, France continues to boil. This is shown, for example, by the forty-five emergency services on strike in hospitals...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u233	And even more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u234	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] ... or the hundreds of schools fighting the Blanquer reform. In its depth, the truth that afflicts us all is that the country does not feel politically represented by anyone! Yet, there is a popular program shared at this time, and that holds in two lines: to live decently, in a world free of everyone's competition against everyone and the ruin of nature. Federate the popular classes and the middle classes on this program of a common future: this is our goal in front of you, that's where we just failed... for the moment. For whatever the electoral results, a Democrat, a Republican, who is also an activist of the citizen revolution, must choose the next day, must choose between fighting against the roller-scroll of this world of ecological and social violence or yielding. [[Applause on many benches in the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and some of the benches of the GDR Group, as well as among the non-attached Members]] We won't give in, no matter what! We won't give in! Not for us, so badly rewarded for our dedication, but for the country's 9 million poor, for the 20 per cent of children living in poverty, for the 4 million poorly housed, for the 600 deaths each year in their workplace, for the 2000 deaths on the street, for the 5 million people who use food aid, for the 30 per cent of French people who give up care for financial reasons! Our homeland will remain that of the humiliated, the oppressed. Not for us, I said, but for the radical change in the way we produce, exchange, consume, condition of our collective survival; In short, not for us, not for a political label, but for the world we want to create, in spite of you and against you. It must be done – don't give in and fight you: for you yourself don't give up anything, and the so-called act II appears as the stuttering of Act I. And you're the danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u235	It's not enough to be against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u236	The President has just stated that he would now be more concerned about the human part of the problems he deals with... What a cynicism! Even though you're going to destroy the pay-as-you-go pension system and push the full retirement age to 64, are you concerned about the human?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u237	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u238	It's to save the pension system!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u239	This at the very moment when you are about to reduce again the rights and compensation of the unemployed, as if the unemployed were responsible for unemployment! This at a time when all the rates for access to networks are exploding! A rough season begins for us, of course, but history accelerates its developments on the Old Continent and fills us with hope in view of the opportunities it offers us. The disintegration started with Brexit, the delusions of NATO warriors, the robberies of globalization, the short delay before the onset of the climate crisis, all leads to a turbulent moment of human civilization, especially on the Old Continent, accustomed to the great tumults. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] And this is the time, it seems, when you would propose to Chancellor Merkel to preside over the European Commission? What's this madness? Why didn't you say during the election campaign that voting for you was for the German right-wing leader of Europe? Whatever your speech today, tomorrow France will be put on a leash, and even shorter if it is Mrs Merkel who holds it from Brussels. That is, we will be treated even more as the Germans are: more poverty, inequality, pesticides and NATO alignment; less solidarity in and between our nations, and less sovereignty of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u240	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u241	I finish: fighting you is doing our duty. In vain would there be hope for something else from us, and from me in particular. To fight you is to take responsibility for the commitment that underpins us, in the long run of history that unites the dead with the living, is to keep open the path of an alternative, for another future must remain possible. What other choice would make sense for an opposition like ours? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups and a few benches of the SOC group. – MM. Jean Lassalle and José Evrard also applaud]] I remain, Prime Minister, determinedly in Camus: he asks to imagine Sisyphe happy... You know it's easier at the top of the coast than at the bottom, but you have to imagine it happy. One cannot understand, however, how Sisyphus succeeds if one remembers only for him, in the words of the philosopher, the struggle towards the peaks is enough to fill a heart of man. And these are not political scams: the greatness of the Republic and that of France are at the price that I have just said. They need this powerful, stubborn, untiring opposition, without which they are no longer themselves. And this requirement applies to each of us as well as to every Frenchman because it is the condition of the greatness of the homeland.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u242	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u243	Prime Minister, the act you have just defined is not going to meet the climate emergency or the demands of the majority of our citizens. This is the general policy statement that the Communist, Democratic and Republican Members will make to the French. First of all, to respond to the urgency for our threatened industry: we must send a strong, solemn signal, and do everything to ensure that France no longer drops one of its factories. General Electric, Whirlpool Amiens, Arjowiggins, Renault, Ford Blanquefort, Ascoval... These pillars of our industry are strategic for our country. They must be the subject of direct intervention by the State. With us, industry and short circuits will become a national priority, a sovereignty issue, both for our economy and to meet the climate challenge. For a country without industry is a country without a future. And when you produce local products, it's good for the job but also for the climate. We will thus define an ambitious industrial policy for our country; strategic channels will be protected, as opposed to looting and selling our family jewellery to pension funds. As such, we will save the French time and money by canceling the privatisation of Paris Airports – ADP – and the French Games. ADP is strategic for our country, for our national company, for our security and even to meet our climate commitments: you are really not on the page wanting to privatize it! The emergency is also health. That is why we will immediately put in place a plan for our public hospitals and our EPHADs – accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people – not to mention overseas, where the health situation is also alarming. First of all, it will be a question of going back to all the closures of beds, emergency services and maternity wards that have been organized since you came to power. Secondly, it will be a matter of providing financial resources, with a hiring plan to meet the needs: there is a shortage of at least 100,000 jobs to be filled as quickly as possible, including 10,000 in emergency services! The urgency is the purchasing power, the fight against expensive life, both in metropolitan France and overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u244	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u245	On July 1st, we will propose a 20% increase in SMIC in two years, both in the private and in the public sectors. And we will be setting up a national wage conference this summer so that all employees can benefit from it. The increase in wages must come from companies and not from our taxes, as you do, because in the end it is always the middle classes who pay. We say that big companies have the means, they also generously distribute dividends to shareholders – 57 billion euros in 2018 for those of the CAC40, up 12%. These companies, we read in the press, have finally turned the page of the financial crisis: it would be high time that their employees could do the same too! As for small and medium-sized enterprises, they will finally benefit, with us, from real state support, including in their investments, thanks to a public banking hub that will lend them at zero rates according to their commitments for employment and for the planet. There is nothing to do with the state aid and the exemptions from all-embracing contributions that you are leniently distributing to polluters, digital giants, Carrefours, Auchan et al. who are still licencing. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] You announce that you want to reform unemployment insurance: we prefer to drive unemployment away rather than the unemployed. That is why we will propose to the social partners the creation of the CDI of the 21st century, integrating training and which will be worthy of a real contract of employment. It will be something other than the CDDs, the Uber or temporary contracts that further favour women, young people and employees. We want to make work laugh with security and dignity, and not, as you do, with insecurity and poverty. Justice for all is also justice for the most fragile, as for our pensioners. In order to ensure that no one lives below the poverty line, we will decide to align solidarity allowances for the poorest, disabled and pensioners at SMIC level. We will implement a pension reform that is always solidary and fully innovative, up to the challenges of our century, and we will set as a target an accessible pension from the age of 60, with 75% of the last salary capped or at the level of the SMIC for low pensions. We prefer, you see, to offer a new life to pensioners and allow young people to replace them rather than promise them, as you do, to work more. At MEDEF as at home, dogma is "work more! While we are in the 21st century, in the era of robots, we have 5.5 million unemployed. The urgency is also democratic, and we want to respond without turning around the pot. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group as well as on several benches of the FI group]] Everyone agrees to put in place a referendum of citizens' initiative: this must therefore be done quickly and in an accessible way for all. But the challenge is also to strengthen Parliament's power. We will therefore set up a constituent assembly to write, together with our fellow citizens, the long-awaited new Republic and finally turn the page of the presidential monarchy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u246	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u247	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will then put at the center of the Republic the citizens and the commune as the main level of democracy and the first public service of France. Finally, we will respond to the demand for tax justice through the tax revolution, which is essential to finance the emergency measures I have just mentioned. First of all, we will restore the solidarity tax on wealth and cancel a series of costly tax measures and niches such as the competitiveness employment tax credit, the research tax credit, the flat tax, the Copé niche: there are, at the bottom of the line, EUR 50 billion to be recovered. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will also put in place a fairer and more progressive tax on all income, including capital, so that the big ones pay big and the small ones pay small and that the wealth we produce is more accurately distributed to those who produce it. We will decide to wage a merciless fight against fraud and tax evasion, finally to make it a major national cause and to include it in our Constitution. There's no need for an umpteenth report: the cheat is here, in front of your eyes! The loss of profits for our country is between 80 and 100 billion euros. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] With a real list of tax havens, with the collection at the source of the profits of multinationals, with more human resources in Bercy and in the service of justice, and with the prison box secured for all the corrupt and the criminals in white collar, I can assure you that we will, in this field, change braquet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u248	That is the true meaning of our values!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u249	[[Applause on several benches in the GDR group. – MM. Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Adrien Quatennens also applaud]] By making every effort to recover such sums, we would thus have new resources for our public services, for our schools, for a bold policy of the sea worthy of our rank as second maritime power, but also for finally initiating the ecological transition. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] [[Same movements]] The urgency is also and above all the climate. We therefore propose to reverse the privatisation of SNCF and to reduce VAT on public transport. Where your choices lead to the closure of small lines and the multiplication of buses and trucks on the road, we prefer to double rail freight and make public transport free wherever possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u250	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u251	We propose to launch an extensive thermal renovation plan for the buildings, which we estimate at a rate of 500,000 per year, with the corresponding public funding. Finally, we want to address the problem of expensive living. I've already talked about wages, work, solidarity, but there are bills that are constantly increasing. The 5.9% increase in their electricity bill, the largest since EDF's privatisation, is unbearable for our citizens, and all the more unbearable since shareholders have been receiving €21.3 billion since 2003. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. "Mr. Loïc Prud-homme also applauds]] The tax exasperation of the French comes mainly from this: from this feeling of being constantly taken for milk cows when a tiny minority puts their pockets full of them. We will return to this increase and immediately reduce VAT on electricity to a rate of 5.5%, as will many essential products. Prime Minister, yes, capitalism is out of breath: I didn't say it, it was the President. You offer nothing but to stay there. However, the path you are proposing has been taken a thousand times: it leads to an impasse, for us and for the planet. We want to get out of this path from the dogma of free and undistorted competition. We want to protect the planet, share wealth and put the happiness of every citizen at the heart of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and several benches of the FI and SOC groups]] This is our project, at the opposite side of what you have just presented to us: that is why the Communist, Democratic and Republican MEPs refuse to give you their confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u252	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u253	What a paradox! What a turnaround! While the Head of State made the first place of his list in the European elections a crucial issue, a symbol, a kind of referendum and he lost this bet – by a little, but he lost it – so that he just suffered a failure, here he is in a position of strength. And you, Prime Minister, appear to be the great winner of these elections. What happened? By what miracle can those who made the defeat of the National Rally a quasi-civilizational objective and the outcome of a battle between the forces of good and evil today plasticize when, let's say, the balance sheet is not really up to what they had sold us? On this balance sheet, I'm not going to expand. The oppositions on the right and on the left made the radiograph to draw up the list, the long list of unfulfilled promises, starting with the first one: the appeasement, the listening and the reduction of the fractures of which you made the singers. In recent months, we have seen the exact opposite: a France never so divided and never so fractured. You discover poverty when the yellow vests go down the street.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u254	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u255	You open your eyes to ecology when the Greens hit the election. You can see that local elected officials exist when they threaten to secede. You admit a fundamental error in method after setting fire to our country. Perhaps it will be necessary for the French to go down the street again so that you realize that we do not play innocently with family ties, the future of our children and the sense of lineages?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u256	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u257	Let's go back to my initial point: if you seem to have won, it is that we have lost. We're on the right. All right. Unable to get together, to ignore our divisions, to silence our ambitions, to put our egos in the closet, we rob you of the red carpet, doing your game against the interests of those who trust us and vote for us. I hear from here the same – always the same – explain that there would be a gap between the right and what I call the right of the right. I take you to the word, Prime Minister, who calls for the overcoming of postures and old divisions: in fact, terrified at the only idea of being accused of breaking the dikes and crossing the red line, our good old right gradually abandons its ideas and its values – I return to you the argument of these values that you constantly throw into our face – to throw itself into the arms of triumphant macroism, or, let's say, more brutally, in relation to some of its representatives, to go to soup. Now, what really separates us, what prevents us from coming together against a power which together we denounce the shortcomings, of which together we vote on certain proposals when they seem to us to go in the right direction? Let us take, for example, the thorny issue of immigration. To whom is the classical right closest: to a government that expands family reunification a little more, which spends more and more money on state medical aid, this social security of illegals, or to MPs who like me, like you, speak well below what the RPR of the 1990s demanded, a RPR who then dared to speak of national preference? Yet, nothing does: like a rabbit caught in the headlights of a car, you, my friends on the right, are paralyzed by the media projectors who track the least step in our direction. That is true: the right, our right, is divided on economic issues, on which it is more or less liberal, as well as on Europe, even if it is less and less obvious, and on other points. Remember, however, the ditch, the chasm that separated a Robert Fabre, boss of the left radicals, from a Georges Marchais, leader of the Communist Party of the time of the Left Union. And we're stupid enough, stupid enough to refuse to go a long way together because in front of us, we're still in the '30s?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u258	Don't forget them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u259	Who can seriously think that? [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] So the right will vote, like me, against this general policy statement. And then what? We keep saying the same thing, turning back the same arguments, extremists for some, traitors for others, all while our opponents rub their hands? I'm telling you, I've had enough of this little game, enough of the postures, the handle effects, the tremolos in the voice and the great reminders of the dark hours of our history.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u260	You have to remember that, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u261	What are you waiting for, right-wing friends, to open your eyes? You're better. You embody this France that does not want to continue to be deconstructed, as proposed by the Government. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] As for you, Prime Minister, it is not because we are not with President Macron that we are against France: it is even the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u262	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u263	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I spoke at length from this rostrum a few hours ago, so I will be brief. I would like to thank all the speakers, in particular President Le Gendre and President Mignola, for their support to the Government. I also thank the other chairmen and speakers of the opposition groups. You have expressed your differences, your disagreements; you have made proposals; you have indicated your requirement and determination. They are clearly respectable in a democracy. It is useful that we can say things to ourselves, because that is why we can move forward. Since the issue has been raised several times – and I think it is often – I would like to say to all the speakers that, of course, I deeply respect their elected status, and that I respect each of them. I believe that they know that, and if by extraordinary means they did not know enough, I would apply to myself the directive on the exceedance that I proposed earlier, so that it could be said even more clearly. I have said that Act II is based on a change of method and on the treatment of three priority issues: ecology, social justice and democratic functioning, not only in terms of our institutions, but also in the functioning of the State and in our ability to make our territories live and dynamic, in the context of a much clearer decentralization. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I have tried, ladies and gentlemen, to present as clearly as possible the measures we were preparing, the method we wanted to use and the timetable we set ourselves. Some expect acts, others fear them. In essence, I can only say one thing: it is the full and complete determination of the Government to implement the measures I have indicated, to apply the method I have described, and to do so by listening, but by moving forward. This is not incompatible, and it is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u264	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u265	As the Prime Minister has committed the responsibility of the Government, I shall put to the vote the approval of his general policy statement. The vote will take place in the adjacent rooms of the meeting room. Ballot papers have been placed in your desks. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. It is open for 30 minutes. It will therefore be closed at eighteen forty-five hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u266	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u267	The meeting was resumed. The result of the vote on the Government's policy statement is as follows: Number of voters 573 Number of votes cast 526 Absolute majority of votes cast 264 For approval 363 Against 163 [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The National Assembly approved the Government's policy statement. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u268	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my grandmother used to say that the shortest speeches are the shortest: thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-12-O1268.u269	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the mobility policy bill. The meeting is adjourned.
