ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u1	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u2	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u3	Prime Minister, when General de Gaulle returned to power in 1958, one of his first political gestures was to receive Konrad Adenauer, the Federal Chancellor of Germany, at his home in Boisserie. He wanted to show the peculiarity of the emerging Franco-German relationship, a relationship which he would realize a few years later by signing the Elysée Treaty. This relationship marked, after so many confrontations, the power of those who carried a will, a dream, a political project that will lead to the transformation of our continent, in particular through the construction of Europe. At a time when the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, which is part of this philosophy, is being vilified by some who want to feed fantasies, in particular that of an annexation of France by Germany, the UDI-Agir and independent group considers it useful that you specify the content of this Treaty, as well as the ambition of France to remain itself while participating in the European integration process. As we step into the footsteps of those who have built great projects, we see that others know how to destroy them. I am thinking of those who made the British people believe that the solution was in the way out of the European Union. They have plunged the British people and their neighbours into a serious crisis that is both economic, social and political. Today, they turn to the European Union to ask, it seems, for a deadline to manage the situation they themselves have created. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Mr Prime Minister, it would be useful if at the time of a divorce which seems inevitable and which is taking place under increasingly blurred conditions, you could tell us, on the one hand, whether the French Government is prepared to give its approval to a delay which the British would ask for for Brexit, on the other hand, what concessions to the European dream it would be prepared to make, because a delay without concessions would not make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u4	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u5	President Lagarde, in two minutes you are asking me questions which, fortunately or unfortunately, call for fairly long answers. These questions are not unrelated. The first relates to the Franco-German relationship in the context of European integration; The second concerns relations between the United Kingdom and Europe in the context of a great friendship and a long alliance between the United Kingdom and France. As far as the Franco-German relationship is concerned, you said it when you started your speech, and I agree with you completely: a very special link has been forged between France and Germany, made of geographical proximity and intertwined history, of very harsh fighting, but also of a formidable desire for reconciliation embodied both by General de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer. This very particular history is at the heart of our peace, prosperity and development prospects. It is one of the essential drivers of building a more stable, stronger, prosperous European whole, and, above all, better able to assert its interests vis-à-vis the other major continental blocs that we know are animated – and how to blame them – by a will of power and the preservation of their own interests. Faced with these, we must be strong and united. In the Franco-German relationship there is the ability for the European bloc to have a powerful, aligned engine capable of training other partners. In 1963, by signing the Elysée Treaty, France and Germany signed a Treaty of Reconciliation; Yesterday, the President of the Republic and Chancellor Angela Merkel signed a treaty which, of course, does not replace the one of 1963, but complements it. It is the treaty of a form of convergence, political convergence and convergence of wills, to ensure that the Franco-German relationship continues to be the engine of a powerful, stable and assumed European construction. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir. – Mr. Jacques Cattin also applauds]] You are right: during the discussion and signing of this Treaty, a number of fantasies were stirred up by a number of actors in the public debate who wanted to mark a very great distance between themselves and reality. As I am, like you and all of us, normally here, attached to the quality of the public debate, I have been appalled at the ability that some may have had to say skullly, without dessillating, that in any way this treaty would have had as its objective to give up Alsace and Lorraine to Germany. But, at last, what are we talking about? Is it necessary to have the desire to tell the French anything to tell them that this could be the objective of France or Germany?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u6	If it's anything, you don't have to talk about it here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u7	This Treaty provides for progress in Franco-German cooperation, for example in the defence or financing of citizens' actions that can be carried out to bring our two peoples together. Very early on, during the history of Franco-German reconciliation, a number of bodies – I am thinking, for example, of OFAJ, the Franco-German Youth Office – played a crucial role in developing a link between peoples and not just between states. We must continue this effort by, for example, promoting existing twinning and bringing universities closer together. That is all that the treaty signed yesterday contains, and many other things. President Lagarde, you are also asking me about France's attitude towards Brexit. At the stage of the ongoing discussions in London, we note that the British Government has negotiated with the European Union an agreement that should have allowed an organised Brexit, not a Brexit without agreement. By a sovereign vote, the British Parliament rejected this agreement. We took note of this – it could not be otherwise. So we organized ourselves, in France, to be prepared in the hypothesis, the formula of diplomats is tasty, "less and less unlikely", of a Brexit without agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u8	Less by less, it's more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u9	We must be prepared so that the safety of people and transactions is guaranteed in case of Brexit without agreement, and so that the inconvenience caused by this decision in daily comfort and in commercial flows is the least possible. But let's not tell a story! Bringing the British out of the European Union and disintegrating their economy from the whole of Europe is not a neutral story. This is not done without harm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u10	It's like when a couple split up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u11	This inevitably causes difficulties and constraints for the French, for Europeans – and much more for the British. Our objective is to ensure that they are limited, but we do not deny them: they will exist. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The question of the additional time allowed to the British may come to the table – I note that there is much discussion on this subject. We will see if a request is made to that effect, but today I do not want to make a policy-fiction. I am simply saying that the European Union will be able to take a decision to preserve the single market when the United Kingdom can tell us what it wants. At the moment, from a political point of view, I observe that many successive majorities in the United Kingdom know how to tell us what they do not want, but that there are few to express what would be a clear demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u12	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u13	Madam Minister for European Affairs, the Franco-German relationship is based on strong ties. Indeed, for more than fifty years, our two countries have been advancing their relations while playing a key role in European integration. Yesterday, Tuesday 22 January, France and Germany signed the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, which complements the Treaty of Elysée by enabling our compatriots and German citizens to work better together and to intensify our cooperation. [[Mr. Jacques Cattin applauds]] A lot of false information is circulating about this treaty, relayed without complexity by some politicians. No, the cooperation treaty does not mention France's abandonment of its seat on the UN Security Council. No, France will not give up Alsace or Lorraine to Germany. No, German will not become the administrative language of the border area. No, the Government will not ratify in secret; The Government negotiates the treaties and the Parliament ratifies them. [[Mr. Jacques Cattin applauds]] Through this Treaty, the two countries recognise the essential role of local authorities and other local actors in strengthening the links between citizens and businesses on both sides of the border, in adapting the right more quickly and more easily to local situations and in facilitating the lives of citizens living near the German border. This is the essence of the efforts of the President of the Republic and the Government to provide more freedom and flexibility to local elected officials in the light of different territorial realities. The realities and complexities of each of our territories require us to accept models of differentiation to ensure the success of our public policies. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Jacques Cattin also applauds]] Madam Minister, on the day following the signing of this treaty, can you inform us about the future powers of local and regional authorities, particularly in cross-border territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u14	The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u15	Mrs Limon, thank you for giving me the opportunity to say what is really in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, beyond the elucubrations of a few, of which, in my opinion, there is much too much talk. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] As the Prime Minister said, this treaty complements the Elysée Treaty. It allows for substantial progress in our bilateral cooperation, at the service of European integration,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u16	Please, ladies and gentlemen, silence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u17	... whether it is defence, economics, audiovisual or exchanges between civil societies. But you are right: the most innovative aspect of this treaty is cross-border cooperation. The aim is to facilitate the lives of tens of thousands of cross-border travellers who travel, study, work or trade with the neighbouring country. In order to overcome the legal and administrative obstacles they face in their everyday lives, whether it is the creation of a Franco-German crèche, the organisation of school outings or sports matches, the choice is made to allow the local authorities to have the skills,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u18	All right! Do it! Give more skills to Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u19	[[Mr. Jacques Cattin applauds]] [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on several benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mr. Jacques Cattin also applauds]] ... adequate resources and procedures to make cross-border projects possible. These developments will obviously take place within the constitutional framework existing in both countries and will fully respect each other's sovereignty. They are expected by the borderers, by Alsace and by the Moselle, they are largely inspired by the report of your colleague Sylvain Waserman and are criticized only by those who do not speak to the people but arrogate themselves the right to speak on his behalf and who, to exist, do not hesitate to lie to the people – it is the own demagogues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u20	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u21	Seven hundred and ten euros: this is the average level of agricultural pensions for 1.5 million women and men in our country. Seven hundred and ten euros a month! A misery below the poverty line!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u22	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u23	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u24	Last Friday, Emmanuel Micron was in the Lot. The question of agricultural pensions was asked to him three times, precisely, concretely, and the answer of the President of the Republic was uplifting with the spirit of resignation and cynicism: "Let them go and ask for the minimum old age", he replied! "These people," as he called them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u26	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on several benches of the SOC, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] ...do not ask for charity, not one of the social minima: they ask for the just recognition of a life of labor. When I heard that answer, I was ashamed that a great country like France was unable to give its agricultural pensioners the right result of their efforts. No, the minimum age is not the answer; They are often not eligible because the return to succession sacrifices them. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups as well as on a few benches of the FI group and among non-attached Members]] All this, this real life, the President has kept from talking about it. For seven hours, obsessed with his own staging, he forgot the country's anger. And I want to say to the members of the majority who are blissful at Emmanuel Macron's performances: stay in ecstasy but expand your adulation! So be ecstatic in front of these farmers who work fifteen hours a day, be ecstatic in front of our nurses, in front of our workers in the three-eight, in front of our craftsmen, in front of our merchants, be ecstatic in front of those who truly deserve it! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups as well as among non-attached Members]] Do not play with great illusion, do not play with democracy, do not give in to the spectacle of emptiness. The French do not expect to be bluffed or distracted on television sets; They're waiting for action! In mythology, Narcissus died of having loved himself too much, too much looked at, too adulated; Narcissus perished from forgetting that around him a world existed. Do not reduce our democracy to the kingdom of Narcissus!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u27	Who is Narcisse in this case?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u28	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u29	Mr Pradie, you are obviously right to point out the difficulties faced by farmers in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u30	Ah! You agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u31	We are trying to deal with the subject on all levels: first, with regard to the added value of their work and their relationship with large distribution, it is the meaning of the law on food, which you know; and this is also the case with pensions. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] You're wrong to say that we're working on TV sets. I have met with all the representatives of the agricultural professions at length in my ministry to talk with them about farmers' pensions. We then referred to the difficulties encountered because of very small pensions, knowing that the persons concerned do not want to ask for the minimum old age, because this obliges a recovery on succession which could penalise them, you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u32	What about Mr. Chassaigne's bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u33	Together with farmers' representatives, we have therefore taken the joint decision to work within the framework of the current pension reform under the auspices of the High Commissioner.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u34	It won't be retroactive! That won't suit the situation in progress! That's not how you'll fix the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u35	A little calm!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u36	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] [[Same moves. – Hulls on the benches of the GDR group]] I discussed with them how to improve agricultural pensions and better value women's work, which has not been recognized, and how to move forward with them, in consultation, on the issue of farmers' income. This work is under way with the High Commissioner. It is therefore not on the TV sets that we settle the situations, but in the context of joint work with the professionals in the sector. The work of farmers is recognised in our country, and we are extremely vigilant on this point, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u37	You're liars!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u38	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u39	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, you have been appointed with Mr Lecornu to lead the big debate. You have initiated this national consultation with mayors in the regions, alongside the President of the Republic. Two meetings have already taken place with the elected representatives, notably in the Eure, but also with 600 mayors of the thirteen departments of Occitanie in Souillac, in my constituency of the Lot, on 18 January. Beyond the political differences, these meetings took place in a serene atmosphere, and I would also like to thank the law enforcement and security forces. The participation of mayors and the openness they have shown confirm the extent to which the democratic fact and dialogue can still animate our territories and their citizens. If we are currently gathered, it is because the period requires it. As the President pointed out, the social, economic and territorial divides, which are greatest in our departments after the last 30 years of government policies, present us with major challenges. None of the previous governments, whether on the right or on the left, has in fact been able to respond clearly and pragmatically to the problems of French and French people who have gone out of their way and who we have begun to bring about solutions in the last eighteen months. We must not avoid the local and national challenge we face, that of enabling the people of our country to regain confidence in themselves and in their ability to advance collectively by living from the fruit of their work and in solidarity with the poorest. In the crucial period we are living in, the success of this debate will be the success of all, for all and against the extremist ideologies to which we must never give in. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Can you, Madam Secretary of State, reassure citizens about the methods and means used to ensure the transparency and success of the debates that are being launched throughout our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u40	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u41	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You are right, for several days our fellow citizens have shown us their interest in this debate. They show us this with the thousand local meetings already referenced on the site granddebat.fr, which began everywhere in France. They show us this with the 130,000 online contributions that we received in one day, when yesterday was opened the possibility of leaving contributions on the site. They still show us this in the notebooks that the mayors have made available in the town halls so that our fellow citizens can freely express their requests. This interest in the great debate obliges us: we have a responsibility to ensure a transparent and impartial analysis and reading of all the contributions of the French. We will do so under the control of five guarantors, two of whom have been appointed by the President of the Republic and two by the Presidents of each Assembly – Mr.President of the National Assembly, you have appointed a guarantor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u42	That's four!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We are working with these guarantors to whom we have proposed a methodology based on very strong principles of neutrality, impartiality and transparency. Together with them, we will succeed in this unprecedented exercise of democracy that gives the floor to our fellow citizens and prepares the "new contract for the Nation" which the President announced in his letter to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u44	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u45	A Ugandan voice, that of Winnie Byanyima, director of Oxfam International, has been a strong reminder of what we already knew: that the disparities in resources continue to grow among the world's population, but also among the French population. While tens of thousands of people die every day in the world for lack of access to the most basic care, billionaires' incomes increased in 2018 by $2.5 billion a day! As public services collapse, inequalities widen, governments exonerate the most fortunate! The year just ended saw the richest 1 per cent capture 45 per cent of the world's wealth. In France, the richest 1% own 22% of the wealth in 2017, compared to 17% in 2007. Thirty-two French billionaires now own as much as the poorest 40% of the French population! [[Applause on the SOC benches]] You'll tell me it's a sign of prosperity. I see only the augury of a defeat, that of an idea of man under the dogma of an all-powerful financial capitalism. It is not only a matter of material misery, but also of political misery and moral and cultural misery. Laurence Tern wrote: "If the cause is good, it is perseverance. If the cause is bad, it is obstinacy." You're obstinate! The famous run-off strategy, like that of general budgetary austerity, is only a lure that does not ensure sustainable development or well-being. The anger of the peoples roaring and the populist drifts that begin are of great concern. We need another economic development policy. You can start with a strong symbolic act, a condition for popular resentments nourishing populism to calm down. Thus, for you and for us, you will open the paths of hope. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several FI benches]] Prime Minister, my question is very simple: when are you going to restore the ISF to the thirst for justice, freedom, fraternity and solidarity of the people?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u46	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u47	Oxfam's inquiry highlighting the growing inequality and the strengthening of unequal globalization is strong and concerns us all. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is for this reason, Mr President, that before the General Assembly of the United Nations, the President of the Republic announced that the main objective of the French Presidency of the G7 will be the fight against global inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u48	We're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u49	You rightly note that the fight against global inequalities will require an international framework to combat them, which we want to achieve by the end of the year, particularly at the Biarritz summit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u50	What about France?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u51	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is in this context that we will propose measures against social dumping, against tax dumping and against health and educational inequalities. This is the main issue of this French G7 presidency which we intend to carry out. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Oxfam's report only hastens our action and strengthens our determination to achieve concrete and shared results.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u52	We need a global ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u53	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u54	As you said, Minister of National Education and Youth, school is the mother of all battles. It must be our priority to tackle the difficulties and inequalities at the root. The goal is that all children come to secondary school with consolidated basic knowledge that will accompany them throughout their lives. To achieve this, you wanted to evaluate the students as soon as they entered CP and CE1. Each of us knows that these classes are decisive passages in a student's life since he learns the four foundations of education: reading, writing, counting and living together. This assessment appears to be a relevant tool for both students and teachers. It will allow every child to benefit from accurate monitoring of his progress and each teacher to identify the student's strengths and weaknesses in order to better accompany him/her. These practices are already in place in half of the OECD countries, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u55	What's the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u56	[["Ah! » on a few benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] She's coming. Nevertheless, teachers remain concerned about the ease of implementation of these assessments and the anxiety they may create in some of the evaluated children. Minister, my questions are as follows. How can teachers be reassured on the merits of this measure? Could we consider going further and including other subjects or topics such as the well-being of students in school, which is already being done in some countries? I would also like to ask you about the risks of competition between establishments related to the results of these evaluations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u57	Hello?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u58	[[Applause and "Congratulation! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, could you tell us what solutions have been considered to deal with a good or bad reputation as an institution that would influence the choice of parents?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u59	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u60	Mrs Liso, you asked a number of questions. The first one relates to one of today's news: we have just received the first evaluations of the outcome of the duplication of preparatory courses in the reinforced priority education network for 2017-2018. This is a very important moment since it is the first assessment – many others will follow – to measure progress. This is obviously very encouraging, particularly from the point of view of the school climate, since 98% of teachers believe that, as a result of this reform, they have been able to make very important progress, in particular by identifying the needs of pupils. This is excellent news because the approval by the teachers is obviously the guarantee of other successes. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM groups and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] We also have the measurement of improvements in the results of students in French and mathematics. We are improving what is known as the standard gap between classes in the enhanced priority education networks and others. Clearly, this means that we are narrowing, or even annihilating, the gap between the most disadvantaged territories and the others. This is, in my view, the most important subject, because it conditions other conquests. In order to make progress, we need strengthened qualitative approaches. This is what happens in the case of some experiments. I am thinking, for example, of one of them, led by Professor Alain Bentolla in the Amiens Academy: the standard gap between disadvantaged territories and others is almost zero. In other words, from a qualitative point of view, there are advanced points. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To advance qualitatively, we need evaluations. The current evaluation in CP is extremely useful because it provides a picture of all the difficulties and needs of the child. I will talk about this at the time of the discussion of the project for a school of trust: evaluation is fundamental in order to succeed in giving trust and to teachers as well as students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u61	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u62	[[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, while the red carpet is being held in front of the multinationals that increase their dividends as they eliminate jobs, you respond to the people, who demand justice and dignity, through a great debate that takes the form of a campaign without guarantee of final decisions. The President's monologue, on stage, went on in front of mayors who came to report the suffering of the people. "Neither taboo nor totem," you say, but above all no change of course: the macronian "at the same time" has the taste of contempt, that of class contempt. In response to the famous adage "working classes, dangerous classes", you offer as an answer more repression: 2000 wounded, hands ripped off, young mutilated, exhausted police officers sent to the confrontation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u63	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u64	Protesters are treated as criminals. You are trying to make it seem that they protest against the values of the Republic while they demand their real application. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several SOC benches]] You add a bill that criminalizes the movement: the so-called "anti-casseurs" law, which will allow the registration of demonstrators and seek to stifle social movements. This text, which has even been rejected by your majority in the Senate, continues to be a source of concern to you. Everyone can see the danger for our rule of law, for our country, the one that made 14 July its national holiday. Weakened by a social crisis that exceeds you, you add a stone to the repressive arsenal, already aggravated by the reversal of the provisions of the state of emergency in the ordinary law. Democracy is a debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u65	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u66	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] ...but it is also to beat the pavement, to contest, to oppose the established order. Manifestation is a constitutional right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u67	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u68	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] So, rather than repression, when a political response, an anti-scass law of solidarity, against the crushers of lives and dreams, a law for justice, not just a law for force?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u69	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u70	Wait for the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u71	Mrs Faucillon, I believe that there are only Republicans here, attached to this fundamental right linked to freedom of expression, which is the right to demonstrate. However, it has been seen for many months, almost a few years, that the right to protest is systematically embarrassed, disturbed, attacked by breakers, and not by demonstrators. The breakers, on the 1st of May, had not chosen to travel Paris on foot, as is the tradition on this day of mobilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u72	[[Smile]] Like Benalla?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u73	[[Exclaims on the SOC, FI and GDR panels]] On the other hand, this same May 1st, like me, you were able to witness this situation: a thousand people, "black blocks",... had come to attack and to break.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u74	Listen to the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u75	[[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] I have the memory, Madam Member, of this CRS turned into a human torch. I remember these broken windows. If this phenomenon is, alas, not new, it becomes systematic. We see it everywhere in France every Saturday: demonstrations organized by women and men who do not want violence, are subjected to it. They are taken hostage by violence. So, yes, we propose, on the basis of a bill that has been passed in the Senate, to provide the means to preserve, to guarantee the fundamental right to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u76	You're doing the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u77	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the FI group]] The aim of this text is to neutralize the ten, the fifty, the hundred breakers who systematically want to threaten both the inhabitants, the traders and the demonstrators, but also the police.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u78	Mr. Coquerel!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Many of them get up and continue to applaud]] Like you, Member, we are committed to the fundamental right to demonstrate. So, rather than shouting, rather than encouraging and accepting violence, we want to protect: protect traders, protect residents, protect protesters and protect police!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u80	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u81	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, the question I want to ask you concerns the flaws in diagnosis and the delays in the detection of mental illnesses and mental and developmental disorders. I would like to associate my colleague Martine Wonner, rapporteur of the flash mission on the financing of psychiatry, decided by the Committee on Social Affairs. In France, one in five people is in psychic suffering at some point in their lives. Whether it is depression, autism, bipolar disorder or food – to name but a few – psychiatric prevention and follow-up are two aspects of the subject that concern us all, from close to or from afar. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in requests for support. Our society is probably more sensitive to ill-being, to the identification of psychosocial risks and trauma. However, mental illnesses and mental and developmental disorders are still too often overlooked, underestimated and stigmatized. In addition to the too frequent lack of information on the issue among the public, there is a lack of awareness among leading health professionals, such as generalists, and the educational community. This is particularly true of young autists and victims of eating disorders, of which, in January 2018, just a year ago, the Court of Auditors pointed out in a report the persistent flaws in management. Only 15% of children now have early diagnosis and intervention; the diagnosis is carried out on average at five and a half years whereas the High Health Authority recommends that it take place at three years. This delay penalises care, while it is all the more effective as it occurs in the first years of the disease. All these difficulties were pointed out to the Prime Minister during his visit some time ago to Villaines-sous-Bois in my constituency. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, 50 million euros have been released for psychiatry, but there is something deeper to consider. Minister, my question is simple: what are you going to answer to those psychiatry professionals who are alerting you?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u82	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u83	Thank you, honourable Member, for providing insight into this health sector, which has been neglected for too long. As you know, as soon as I came to the ministry in 2017, I wanted to make psychiatry a priority. In June 2018, I presented a roadmap for mental health and psychiatry that includes 37 measures, which I will report tomorrow to the Strategic Committee on Mental Health and Psychiatry, as well as to the Congress of the Encephalus. These thirty-seven measures aim to raise awareness among the general public about mental health disorders, which already affect one in five of our citizens and which will likely soon affect one in four people in developed countries – a trend that does not concern only our country. Some of these measures are aimed at raising awareness among professionals in the first resort. In this way, we have introduced a compulsory internship in mental health or psychiatry for interns in general medicine and, during the second semester of the outternate, for all medical students, so that they know better and can better identify and manage these disorders. We have also recently received recommendations from the High Health Authority and health authorities to improve the identification of "dys" disorders, which should lead to a restructuring of our care offering, with recourse centres for the evaluation of these disorders and their management. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] You mentioned the budget question. If, of course, the reform is not reduced to this, I have wished, as soon as I arrived, to sanctify the budgets of psychiatry. This was the case in 2018 and will still be the case in 2019. There will also be a reform of psychiatry pricing to make it more attractive. We have increased the number of young doctors in child psychiatry training so that there is an additional offer, as not all territories are covered. Finally, we announced a €50 million envelope for psychiatry this year as well as the creation of a €10 million psychiatry innovation fund for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u84	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u85	Prime Minister, for an immense majority of French people, it is urgent to get out of these weeks of crisis that are damaging our social pact, our economy, our trade, our forces of order, our cities, our image. I want to express two fears here, make two proposals and ask you a question. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In Occitanie last Friday, 600 local mayors and elected officials spent seven long hours with the President of the Republic. I was there. I fear that these technical exchanges, often not directly related to the daily concerns of the French, will further distance them from their representatives. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] On Saturday, I too debated with Aveyrons dressed in their yellow vests. Their complaints concern their low standard of living, their small pensions, their difficulties in moving, their children's future, etc. I'm going to hand them over to you, but they're going to join some contribution bins that are going to spill over to you. How can we not fear that your government is not able to take them into account and that we other policies are, all confused, taxed not to hear those French people who are demonstrating, as well as the others who are silent? In the face of these fears, I want to make two suggestions. The first is to set this debate an economic milestone. Your orientations have led to blocking; You've retreated, but temporarily. Prime Minister, give the French the outline of your proposals for their purchasing power and for tax and social justice. The second is to set the debate a political milestone. The French are blaming you for breaking Parliament for a year and a half, and they are a source of terrible distrust for all our institutions and our democracy. Prime Minister, tell them what are the contours of your political response to their dissatisfaction. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, can you clearly set these two caps before this House? In doing so, you would not take away the freedom of trade, but you might avoid the trap of technocratic and media construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u86	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u87	Mr President, you are asking me about the great debate in which we are engaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u88	It's not a big debate, it's a big oral!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u89	You started your question by recounting the long exchange that took place on Friday in the Lot between the President of the Republic and 600 mayors, which followed the equally long exchange that took place in Normandy between the President of the Republic and 600 other mayors. Perhaps I misunderstood the terms of your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u90	That's likely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u91	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group.– Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I did understand – but perhaps you wanted to say something else? – that you claim that what the mayors said was disconnected from the daily life of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u92	You despised them, mayors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] I thought if anyone on the benches of the majority had said exactly the same thing as you, you would have blamed us for questioning those elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u94	That's not what he said, you know that very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u95	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I will give you my reading of this debate. I, for my part, saw in these two long exchanges between the President of the Republic and mayors a real dialogue. The mayors asked questions about all the fields of their action, of their daily lives. Some directly concern the French, others are indeed technical, because we live in a reality that is sometimes extremely technical. Mayors know it and they talk about it. Thankfully, MP, let's do something other than send the ball back to us on the theme: "Do the mayors really talk about the questions of the French? »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u96	And what are you doing right now?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u97	There was a good dialogue between the President of the Republic and the mayors. Let us rejoice in it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u98	It wasn't a dialogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u99	Mr President, you are asking me what is the framework for the debate in which we have embarked and how we want to get out of the crisis that you have mentioned. The response of the President of the Republic and the Government has several components. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] First, there are purchasing power measures. These were adopted at the end of December. We are at the end of January: it is not so far away. Let us not forget them; It is still a global package – if I may say so – that puts 10 billion euros of purchasing power in the pocket of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u100	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u101	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It's not nothing, you'll agree! This is therefore an important element of response. Moreover, and this is so much better, a number of independent bodies say that there will be a fairly significant increase in the purchasing power of the French during 2019. Let us rejoice in it! Secondly, there is a political response: the big debate. We're talking about topics. The French are talking. They say what they want, what they don't want. They do so within a framework set by the President of the Republic. They are taking ownership of this debate. I think you'll be delighted with this, as I do, because the multiplication of debates, organised throughout the national territory, some by mayors, others by citizens,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u102	By collectives On the move, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u103	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ...is an opportunity to exchange and dialogue so that our citizens can say something about their reality and what they want. So that's great news. We will emerge from this debate with a set of proposals. Don't ask me to tell you before the end of the debate what they will be! That is the framework we have set. I trust the French to say what they want in this debate, as I trust the mayors to participate, if they wish, in the organisation of the meetings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u104	Mayors, you despised them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u105	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] However, this is not limited to mayors, because a whole series of organisations and associations, which rightly claim the status of what is sometimes called "intermediate body" – although I am not sure of the correctness of this expression – express their wish to participate in the construction of solutions. Well, I answer them that they will participate all the better because we will all participate together in the organisation of the debate. All those who want to participate in the definition of solutions are therefore welcome in the great debate. Together we will draw the line mentioned by the President of the Republic and build the measures that will be implemented by the Government at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u106	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u107	Prime Minister, recent events related to yellow vests have highlighted the central issue of reducing social and territorial inequalities and injustices. As far as the territories are concerned, the aim is to reconcile central France with that of the periphery, to reconcile France with the countryside, the suburbs, the ultramarine territories with that of the "start-up nation" of Paris and the big "agglos". There is also the question of the balance between the regional metropolises and their surrounding territory. Thus, the possible announcement of the total merger between the Bouches-du-Rhône department and the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence raises two fundamental problems: that of the perimeter, with or without the inclusion of the country of Arles and the Alpilles; that of governance since it is a matter of moving from the appointment of metropolitan councillors through a dangling among municipal elected officials to a direct and well-understood mode of voting. However, the country of Arles is opposed to the merger for reasons of remoteness, mobility, economic attractiveness and, above all, because of a very different culture. At a time when the state intends to redefine its relationship with the territories and wonders about its rapprochement with the citizens, a forced integration of the country of Arles into the metropolitan perimeter would be the signal of a new form of centralism. Moreover, not to comment on governance, on the voting method, is to leave in place an ankylosed system, considered to be inefficient, a factor in a clientelist policy and a cause of considerable delay in the territory. Worse still, this forced merger could create populist reflexes that run counter to the need to reconcile the country and get out of too vertical a reading of our institutions. [[Applause and "Congratulation! » on the benches of the LT group]] Prime Minister, how do you plan to strike the right balance between cities and more rural areas, to emerge from a technocratic and accounting vision of fusion that crushes local identities and forces, and to build confidence in territories and their elected representatives?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u108	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u109	You are asking me in substance, Mr Lambert, about the opportunity to proceed with the merger of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and the department of Bouches-du-Rhône. First of all, as you know, a common will has been expressed in this territory to achieve this merger, with the exception, as you pointed out, of the country of Arles. Then, the prefect Pierre Dartout will give me tomorrow morning the report that the Prime Minister commissioned him, a report which, beyond this possible merger, will obviously return to the subjects that you have discussed: the competences between the metropolis and the communes as well as the method of voting for the election of metropolitan councillors. Also, on Friday, I have an appointment with Mr Claude Vulpian, the president of the community of Arles-Crau-Camargue-Montagnette, and I will soon meet all the parliamentarians of Bouches-du-Rhône. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] All of this, Mr President, is done in perfect concertation and we have only one objective: to overcome the difficulties faced by the population, in Marseilles and in the Bouches-du-Rhône, in terms of social and territorial inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u110	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u111	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, the opinion of the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights, entitled "Human Rights in Overseas Countries", delivered in September 2017, the hearing in the Committee on Social Affairs of the Interministerial Delegate for the Prevention and Combating of Child and Youth Poverty, and the long interview I had with him in your ministry, highlighted many critical issues in the ultramarine territories, including that of extreme poverty. Thus, the Government, through the voice of the Minister for Overseas Affairs, undertook in La Réunion, at the end of November, that "concrete measures shall take effect as from 1 January 2019 and shall benefit the Reunionnaises and Réunionnais" and that "for the elderly, the minimum old age shall be increased to 900 euros per month", as well as for the beneficiaries of the AAH, the allowance for adults with disabilities. When asked about these issues, the CGSS and the FCA – the General Social Security Fund and the Family Allowance Fund – of La Réunion respond to the ministerial instructions, which raises serious questions among the inhabitants and questions the value of government commitments. As you know, poverty among older people, in Réunion and more generally overseas, is important. This is due in particular to degraded, undeclared or unjustly paid careers at the Domian sub-SMIC – lower than the national SMIC until 1996. Madam Minister, my question is simple: will the Government keep its commitments made at La Réunion at the end of November for these Euro900 alignments on 1 January 2019? [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several GDR benches]] But I cannot complete my intervention without mentioning the dengue epidemic, which takes an Aboriginal form despite our numerous alerts since April 2018. Here, too, the Government has made commitments. Sentinel doctors report 26500 cases; We are therefore very far from the commitments made. Minister, we are telling you again: the fight against vectors, as during the crisis of chikungunya, is necessary but not sufficient. The use of repellents is recommended. You will understand that many Reunions cannot protect themselves. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u112	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u113	Mrs Bareigts, you mention two subjects of importance to your territory, to which you know how much we are attached. The year 2018 was marked by the publication of the "Blue Book Overseas", which obliges the Government. In particular, it proposed measures to combat inequalities, which were set out in the strategy to prevent and combat child and youth poverty, some of which were dedicated to overseas. I am pleased to announce to the national representation that the island of La Réunion has been selected as the demonstrative territory of this strategy. A contract has indeed been decided between the department and my ministry to work with you on indicators to combat poverty, whether they are indicators of inclusion or dedicated to equal opportunities in early childhood. Meanwhile, the Minister for Overseas Affairs came to make her announcements in November, accompanied by the interdepartmental delegate. She announced that La Réunion would benefit from the resources of the metropolis. We are working on this for 2019 so that the commitments made are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u114	In any case, they weren't on January 1st!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u115	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You also go back to the problem of dengue fever, which is recurrent and which has the greatest attention of my services, in particular the health security system. We knew, thanks to a model, that the dengue epidemic was going to resume this season and indeed the cases are accumulating, especially in the south of the island. We will therefore strengthen vector control by increasing the means of the regional health agency, the departmental fire and rescue service, and the regiment of military service adapted to help the population eradicate mosquitoes. The population must also participate by limiting water points and, of course, using recommended repellents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u116	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u117	First of all, allow me to have a warm thought for all those who are suffering behind their small screen and a grateful thought for all those who lighten their daily lives. Minister responsible for Transport, Elizabeth Borne, the issue of daily mobility is central to our citizens and is one of the Government's priority topics. The mobility policy bill, which will be considered by Parliament in the spring, will aim to provide strong solutions, particularly for sparsely populated areas, where local authorities will have more power to regulate and organise mobility, closer to local needs. The central issue of purchasing power has also been the focus of your department's attention for several months. This is the meaning of regular exchanges with motorway concession companies. Indeed, while most motorway toll rates are expected to increase at the beginning of next month on the main sections, in accordance with the contracts, you have regularly called on the concessionaire companies to take into account the expectations of the French in terms of purchasing power, especially for journeys between home and work. Last Thursday, after an intense and constructive dialogue, these companies undertook to propose a 30% reduction in the amount of tolls for motorists who make at least ten round trips per month on the same section. This effort, fully supported by the concessionaire companies and without compensation from the State or users, is expected to benefit nearly one million French people throughout the network. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, could you please provide us with details of the timetable and practical arrangements for implementing this measure in favour of purchasing power, as well as the means available to your department to monitor the implementation of these commitments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u118	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u119	The expectations expressed by the French for their purchasing power had to be taken into account. As toll rates evolve, as every year, on 1 February, under very clear and binding contracts, I had asked the motorway companies to take this concern into account and to make proposals to address it. We have had intense exchanges and we have obtained an unprecedented effort from them. This effort is a simple and clear measure, which will apply from 1 February throughout the motorway network. This is a new subscription, which will offer a 30% reduction in tolls for all those who make at least ten round trips per month on the same route. This is a particularly suitable measure for all our fellow citizens who have to use the highway to get from home to work, including those working part-time. This is a very significant effort, since the toll price of nearly one million French will decrease by 30%. Motorway companies will make an effort of several tens of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u120	They make 4 billion euros in profits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u121	This effort of the motorway companies will have no counterpart, neither from the state nor from the users, neither today nor tomorrow. This is completely new.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u122	Bravo, what a misery for these societies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u123	Yes, thank you, a 30% decrease is very significant. I have asked that this new subscription be presented to the Users' Committee, which involves representatives of motorists and parliamentarians. You can count on me to monitor its implementation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On these subjects, there are those who make big speeches or take demagogic measures that are then very expensive. My approach is pragmatic and is aimed at adopting concrete measures. That's what we got.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u124	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u125	Prime Minister, in your big debate, the Oxfam and Attac NGOs oppose you with their big observations. The twenty-six richest individuals on the planet possess as much wealth as half of humanity. In France, CAC 40 groups in 2018 paid their shareholders 60% of their profits, or 58 billion euros, thus setting a new record in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] The correlation between the growth of inequality in wealth-sharing and the increase in poverty in our country is obvious. But, consciously, you choose to sub-tax the most fortunate when, at the same time, crucial public services, such as health or education, collapse because of lack of funding. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] Today, the people of France are mobilizing to demand more tax and social justice. You ignore these popular and legitimate injunctions to give priority to those of the dominant oligarchy. You said it, you won't restore the ISF. You will not revise your CICE allocation policy. You will insist on transferring the tax burden from the wealthy to the poorest. In Versailles, you flatter and honour multinationals, whose tax practices are denounced even in our own Ministry of Finance. In Souillac, you confine the people behind barriers and cordons of CRS, miles from your kind consultation. These reports by Oxfam and Attac reveal the scale of the social catastrophe that our country is going through, and the despair that accompanies it. The danger for our Republic is to be deaf to the anger of the yellow vests, which echoes this tragedy. Your Government's authoritarian drift will not change that. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Prime Minister, with all due respect, because I ask myself and the French ask myself, I must ask you this question: are you really aware of the state of social disrepair in which our country is located?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u126	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u127	Like you, I read Oxfam's report and, like you, I found that the concentration of wealth on a global scale was a constant; Thus, the report already pointed out in 2015 and 2016 that 1% of the richest inhabitants of our planet had the same level of wealth as the rest of humanity. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I have also seen in this report, beyond the extremely telling titles and illustrations on the concentration of wealth at all levels, that our country, France, was among the best ranked. We are the third country in redistribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u128	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u129	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Through the tax and social redistribution system, wealth and income inequalities between the richest 10 per cent and the poorest 10 per cent are reduced from 21 to 6 and from 8 to 4 between the richest 20 per cent and the poor 20 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u130	The cock has sung three times!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u131	I have also seen, honourable Member, since you highlighted this issue in your question, that the reform of the taxation of wealth, which the majority committed to assess, had no impact on the concentration of wealth across our country. Above all, honourable Member, I have seen in this report, like the vast majority of parliamentarians, an inquiry and an invitation to act. This is what we do by increasing the income of the most disadvantaged,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u132	It's a joke, did you see the numbers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u133	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... with the upgrading of social minimums such as the allowance for disabled adults, the minimum old age and the benefits paid to single-parent families. This means raising the income of those who work and have the lowest incomes, with the increase in the activity premium. This also involves reducing the burden of expenditure; As such, Agnès Buzyn's work in social matters on the "zero remaining charge" aims to ensure that the least favoured households in our country have less to pay for expenses imposed on them, particularly in medical matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u134	You're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u135	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] All the measures we are taking to reduce poverty and inequality deserve support. Because you are aware of this concentration of wealth and because you have been questioned by Oxfam, I am confident that you will support the next steps we will be presenting to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u136	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u137	Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, "StocaMine is only allowed for 30 years, which gives us an obligation to remove waste from the surface." This was stated by government officials at the end of the 1990s. Last Monday, twenty-two years later, in contradiction with the commitments made at that time, in renunciation of the word given, the State announced the final burial of 42,000 tons of ultimate waste. Thus, under Europe's largest water table, our generation has just decided to bury asbestos, arsenic, plant waste and mercurial residues, and to give this old potash mine all the characteristics foreshadowing an ecological disaster. Minister, at a time when the President of the Republic is seeking to restore confidence with our fellow citizens, this decision causes misunderstanding and disarray. In Alsace, in the Haut-Rhin, the population saw it as a betrayal and a new decision of the central state against the interests of one of its territories. Citizens wonder how much value the word given. They even wonder whether the commitments made, in Bure, for example, will be fulfilled to the end. It is true that you have nothing to do with it. It is true that all governments, over the past seventeen years, supported studies, have advocated landfilling waste, although Delphine Batho and Ségolène Royal have managed to extract 95% of mercury waste from StocaMine. We had – we still have, I dare say with hope – a historic chance to finally repair the mistakes of the past, not to leave under the feet of our children and grandchildren an ecological time bomb. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM, LR and FI groups]] Minister, tell us; despite this first announcement, that the door is still open! For Alsace, for citizens, for democracy, for future generations and for the very idea that we make of our public commitment, let us open a real dialogue with local actors, let us repair together the mistakes of the past and thus restore confidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u138	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u139	Mr Fuchs, this difficult and responsible decision is the epilogue, as you know, of a long history and, I must say, of a bad project. I would like to recall, for few of us here and among those who look at us, who know, how we got there. In 1991, the project to store waste in an old potash mine in Alsace was born.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u140	The left was in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u141	In 1997, authorization is given for 320000 tonnes of waste. In 1999, the first waste was stored.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u142	The left was still in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u143	In 2002, a fire occurred in one of the site's galleries and storage was interrupted. It was not until 2008 that Jean-Louis Borloo, then head of the Ministry of Ecology, commissioned a report. This, released in 2010, recommends extracting the most dangerous waste and confining the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u144	The right was in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u145	In 2011, a committee of independent experts was convened and issued a report along the same lines. Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, now Minister of Ecology, recommends doing so, but no decision is taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u146	She's done things!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u147	In 2012, Delphine Batho, Minister of Ecology, and Arnaud Montebourg, Minister of Industry, informed the operator that a choice had been made: a partial destocking scenario, with a view to extracting 56% of mercury-containing waste. In 2014, Ségolène Royal confirmed this decision, while increasing the proportion of mercury-containing waste destined for final extraction from the former mine's galleries to 95%, and providing for continued containment of others. Finally, we now have the report you have drawn up with MM. Raphaël Schellenberger and Vincent Thiébaut, as well as the report of the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research – the BRGM – which confirmed that this is the least dangerous solution, the risk of pollution and infiltration being only 1 cubic metre per year out of the 35 billion cubic metres of water contained in the water table. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why this difficult and responsible decision was taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u148	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u149	Prime Minister, France has 71,000 prisoners, of whom 23,000 are in more than 150% occupied prisons. This week, in my department, Essonne, the prison of Fleury-Mérogis celebrates its fifty years, in a context where prison discomfort has never been so profound. The dramatic situation in our prisons, the exhaustion of our prison staff and the overcrowding of prisons are probably the most compelling work of our judicial system. With the draft law on programming and reform for justice, you send to the prison, without any other form of trial, the promise of the President of the Republic to build an additional 15,000 prison places during the quinquennium. The cut-off sale of this promise, consisting first of committing yourself to 7,000 prison places actually created by 2022, by taking back to your account the late construction sites of your socialist predecessors, will not suffice to mask your lack of ambition. The victims are waiting for you to do them justice and dignity. Their attackers must serve their sentences, in full, in prison. You persist in the pitfalls that make our prisons crime schools rather than places of return to the community. Undercapacity, demotivation, insecurity, porosity of radicalized prisoners: in reality, the ideology of the culture of excuse still triumphs over the pragmatism of firmness. You can find new places in safer and more dignified prisons. The solution is not to put fewer offenders in prison, as you propose, but to thoroughly review the profile of inmates. Deport foreign convicts, who occupy thousands of places in French prisons! End with the juvenile quarters by keeping your promise to double the number of places in closed educational centres! Orient inmates with mental disorders towards appropriate structures and subject them to a true obligation of care! [[Applause and "Congratulation! » on the benches of the LR Group and among the non-attached Members]] Prime Minister, you can reach the figure of 15,000 places in prison. Don't step back! It is the French, the prison officers, the victims and their families who ask for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u150	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u151	Mr Reda, we are not going back, we are moving forward, and in two ways. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the one hand, we are moving forward by keeping the promise of the President of the Republic to build 15,000 prison places. I undertook before the Assembly to ensure that 7,000 new prison places were delivered and 8,000 were under construction in 2022. This, I believe, is the real application of the President of the Republic's commitment, and I would like to repeat it to you. On the other hand, we know that the solution to the problem that you raise, Mr Reda, which is in short a problem of confidence of the French in our justice and in the promise that we have made, lies not only in construction and real estate. It also lies in a criminal policy, which we want to put in place, contrary to what has been done so far. It is therefore a comprehensive conception of the prison policy that we are carrying. This criminal policy, as you know, Mr. Reda, will have as its main objective to allow for appropriate sentences and detention regimes for prisoners, as well as a follow-up of their detention history and preparation for release to avoid recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u152	What about the ones who come in?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u153	In this way, we will be credible and, I hope, we will really succeed in reducing, in France, the problems relating to recidivism and the judicial truth that are troubling our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u154	It's Taubira getting worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u155	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is what we are committed to. That is the promise I have made before you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u156	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u157	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u158	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u159	The next item is the joint explanations of vote and the vote by public vote on the entire draft law on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice (No. 1503, 1548) and the draft organic law on strengthening the organisation of courts (No. 1502, 1549).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u160	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Jean Terlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u161	Like all the strong, pragmatic, structural, but necessary reforms, the one you have proposed to us has been very criticized; Some, moreover, continue to wrongly denounce a unilaterally decided project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u162	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u163	But when we decide on the justice we want for our citizens tomorrow and on the means we want to provide it, I want to insist once again on the co-construction of this project. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these texts that we are going to vote on are indeed the result of our consultations. Our debates, your amendments and ours have enriched the texts and sometimes even changed them. Without enumeration at the Prévert, we can note some improvements made to the initial project as a result of our discussions with the actors on the ground. For example, with regard to dematerialized amicable settlement, we have provided guarantees of a strict definition of the scope of the law, and have made it clear that conciliation or mediation cannot be the sole result of automated processing. With regard to the scope and scope of competence of the director of the family allowance fund – CAF – we have removed any ambiguity: the CAF does not have any power to assess the situation; they are bound by the observed changes in resources, justifying or not a revision of the amount of maintenance. The most complex cases remain within the jurisdiction of the judge. As far as orders for payment are concerned, our work has helped to simplify the procedure; From now on, oppositions to an order for payment, whether on the merits or on the deadlines for payment, will be the subject of an adversarial debate before the territorially competent court. Also in the case of divorce, our choice of a one-year reduction in the time required to characterize the breakdown of the marital bond and its assessment at the date of the divorce application or divorce is a measure of common sense in society. The criminal component has also been amended taking into account the recommendations of those closest to the ground. Thus, with regard to the criminal composition, we have decided to maintain the current limitation of its scope to offences punishable by imprisonment of up to five years. As far as complaints are concerned, the provisions adopted give complainants the opportunity to refer the matter to the investigating judge three months after the initial complaint, while allowing the prosecutor to ask the investigating judge for an additional three months to complete his investigations. In the area of territorial organization, the debates in the session devoted – yes! – the merger of the registries of the judicial court and the council of the prud'hommes, but it is only an administrative merger of the hierarchies and not of the services: the existence of a service of registry of the prud'hommes is therefore established in the law. Contrary to what many are trying to increase, the bill is not simply a desire for diversion under the guise of fiscal restraint – justice is seeing its budget increase, as you have repeatedly pointed out, minister. It effectively simplifies procedures, and places the citizen at the heart of the system. In civil law, for example, it introduces the acceptance of the principle of the breakdown of marriage by an act under private signature countersigned by lawyers; in criminal matters, the harmonisation of investigation procedures, which allows judges to mobilise themselves more actively. This reform modernises and adapts justice to the society it needs to protect, and makes it accessible to all, in particular through online complaints and the monitoring of the online file, which, in addition to the other means already available in the criminal and civil fields, facilitate the act of ester for the accused. This reform is finally pragmatic: it will allow us to give back time to our magistrates and investigators for the fulfilment of their primary tasks; it provides for more effective and individualised criminal penalties; In civil matters, conciliation is often preferable to a bad trial, making amicable answers indispensable for all everyday disputes. The wording of article 53 is unambiguous as to the need to rationalize our jurisdictions without deleting any of them. Thus, the specialisation of the courts to be carried out by the chiefs of the courts of appeal will only be carried out after consultation with the judicial boards of the courts concerned, and will take into account the volume of cases dealt with and the technicality of the matters. Our justice therefore enters its century while maintaining all individual guarantees and freedoms, as well as the rights of defence. To our fellow citizens who are less familiar with new technologies, the project provides assurance that a physical reception desk will be maintained in every place of justice. It reaffirms the possibility of recourse through traditional means and reassures the presence, in each place of justice, of a judge competent to hear the dispute: the local judge for everyday disputes, a more specialized judge for more complex disputes. The places of justice will be maintained: you have kept reminding the minister of this firm commitment, and we assure you of our confidence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To conclude, Voltaire wrote that too quickly a judgment is often without justice. We are convinced that, before being tried and condemned, these texts deserve to be put to the test of practice and experimentation, and we do not doubt the outcome of this trial. The La République group will therefore vote for this ambitious reform project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u164	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u165	You won't be surprised if I use a somewhat different tone! On the form first, I am surprised to see us coming together today to validate texts that should have been subject to much longer discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u166	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u167	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] At a time when a major national debate is taking place, I am surprised not to find justice reform – a public service and an essential regal power – among the topics discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u168	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u169	Earlier this year, we debated a text that we had already considered just before Christmas, inserting thirty-seven new articles that the Senate did not even discuss.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u170	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u171	He will try to do so in a few days, then the text will be validated by mid-February – the long-awaited white-sing. Anyway, move around, there's nothing to see! In any case, the debate is not going on. Beyond these elements of form, which I regret, it is above all substantive elements that will lead the Republican Group to oppose this text. In view of the expectations raised by the work of justice, we are deeply disappointed. Yes, Madam Keeper of the Seals, we share the observation made by the prosecutors as well as by all of us of a clocharded justice, in lack of means; But it must be noted that in this text, on many points, the account is not there. This is particularly the case for prisons – and I know that the subject is cleavage. We have never made prison the alpha and omega of any sanction. We prefer actual sanctions rather than prison sentences, which in some cases are totally counterproductive. But still, we are far from campaign commitments! Where did the promised 15,000 prison places go? Barely 7,000 remain current, and they are still the result of an agreed programme in the time of Jean-Jacques Urvoas and their construction remains uncertain given the scarcity of available land, free of any recourse. In short, powder to the eyes that all of this! In fact, our justice is evaporating throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u172	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u173	It evaporates because of too much digitalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u174	Justice without judges!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u175	Yes, progress is necessary, yes, one must live with one's time, but provided that society is inclusive and justice accessible to the most modest. When it is exercised through legaltech, various and varied keyboards, what the Defender of Rights denounces happens is a dematerialization that creates inequalities of access to this essential public service. I understand that we must adapt or perish; But by over-externalizing and over-digitizing justice, one forgets that it must be embodied in bodies of women and men. Too outsourced, the courts also see their access points disappear with the merger between the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u176	It's a problem of means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u177	This new map – probably even worse, in the long run, than that of a certain previous majority – will lead, with the question of the attractiveness of certain posts, to the disappearance of the points of entry of justice in the national territory. It will take miles to gain access to local justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u178	That's a lie, Mr. Gosselin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u179	This is not our conception of justice. And what about specialization, which could set aside a series of courts, or the reinforced hierarchy between heads of courts? All of this raises real questions. An important part of the reform, legal aid, was not discussed. Access to the law – and I salute George Pau-Langevin, with whom we wrote a report on the subject – is a necessity in a democratic society like ours. But it seems to be postponed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u180	It's clearly not urgent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u181	I understand that work will be carried out, but for the moment the issue is not relevant, and I regret it. What more can we say about these fallen ordinances, such as the deus ex machina, following a question to the Government, which will amend the essential ordinance of 1945 on juvenile justice? Here too we suspect some eel under rock and we don't care. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups. – Mr. Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] Because the matter is not, because this reform of justice is not ours, we oppose it. Under these conditions, the Republican Group will not be able to vote for these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u182	All right! It's all said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u183	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u184	We are coming to the end of the new reading of these texts, which have been before us since November. If the debates at first reading had been somewhat complicated, I would like to point out that last week's debates took place in a rather calm and constructive atmosphere, which allowed each of us to defend our positions. I believe that the quality of our discussions has enriched and improved these texts on several points, in particular following the remarks and proposals of the oppositions. The Democratic and Related Movement Group particularly welcomes two major advances. On the one hand, the revision of the amount of the contribution to the maintenance and education of children by the directors of the family allowance funds will be much more supervised, so as to leave the discretion to the judge alone. If it turns out that this device improves processing times in most simple cases, it should be sustained; otherwise, it will always be possible not to act on it. Beyond this ad hoc mechanism, which can represent a concrete response to the demands of our citizens in difficulty, the principle of experimentation and simplification, which is a promise of progress, corresponds precisely to the transformations expected by the French. On the other hand, we welcome the continuation of the current scope of the criminal composition. The use of this procedure, which would have been useful to relieve the congestion of the courts, would have been problematic if it had been possible for offences punishable by more than five years' imprisonment, such as drug trafficking in organized gangs or the association of criminals. This, in our view, is a major step forward in the discussion on new reading, and I would like to welcome the open-mindedness of the Government on this point, as well as the progress we have achieved. The Modem et al. Group also welcomes the standardization of the treatment of orders for payment, whatever their reason, or the obligation to consult the judicial courts' boards of jurisdiction on any proposal for departmental specialization and before any assignment of jurisdiction to the local chambers. These advances serve both the interests of litigants and those of the public service of justice. They are in fact part of the twofold objective of simplification and efficiency that has guided the bill since its inception. Beyond these particular points, we have understood for too many years that the processing times of cases are excessive, that prison places are lacking and that the working conditions of judicial personnel are unacceptable. With these texts, we are finally remedying this, thanks to an ambitious and realistic multi-year budget that will increase recruitment and speed up the construction of prisons – in short, to finally provide essential resources for justice. We believe that the bill is an indispensable response to the challenges facing the justice of our democracy on a daily basis. It encourages the dematerialization of justice without weakening it; it punishes terrorism and cybercrime while safeguarding individual freedoms; Finally, it simplifies the functioning of the courts without taking them away from the litigants. We understand the concerns that may lead some of our colleagues to the idea of a merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. Nevertheless, the Government has made a firm commitment to maintaining territorial networking, and it is therefore with confidence that we welcome this measure. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u185	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u186	I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group. "Justice must be a subject of debate, not a fight," you said, minister. We too defend the importance of parliamentary deliberation. That is why I have approached this text without prevention, with the desire for true cooperation and the willingness to accept the right proposals and to remove those that we felt were not on the right path. It was precisely this commitment to parliamentary deliberation that made us so strongly challenge, on every bench, the amendment to empower the Government to legislate on juvenile justice. It is always this commitment to parliamentary deliberation that makes us regret today an amended bill on the margins only, in which oppositions have not been able to introduce many sensible proposals. Without enumeration of all the reservations that these texts inspire, I will make six substantive observations. For starters, we are in favour of the case and the one-stop shop, and why not the court. But why, Madam Minister, did you not agree to include in the law the guarantees that we asked for? Without them, the specialization of the courts and the questioning of the anchoring of the current places of justice bring about a judicial reorganization that can now be done away from us parliamentarians, but also perhaps away from you. We are also very much in favour of dematerialization and the digital revolution, and we know that it will profoundly change public services and that the very notion of proximity will have to be reviewed. But the 2019 France is a digitally fractured France: precariousness exists, and the justiciable must be accompanied. We are surprised that there are no regulations or legislative provisions that allow – though! – to frame digital platforms that will be able to say the right to those who address them. You gave us the reasons; We're not convinced. We consider that the State, which must be the night watchman of a royal service, cannot abandon to the merchants of law and digitalism this vast field of justice outside the walls, outside the judges. Thirdly, we believe that the judge should not discharge his duties on others: that is his honour and that is his duty. He's not asking for it! To entrust a family allowance fund with a review of alimony even though a disagreement exists between the parties deprives the judge of his or her duty to settle a dispute. It is not because it is an experiment that we must derogate from this fundamental principle. Fourthly, we are not discussing the useful extension of investigative powers. But how can it be done at the expense of individual freedoms? That is what the Defender of Rights says, as well as the referents of the courts that you have chosen because of their competence. They recommend that you harmonize the threshold to five years, not three. Again, you have not heard the parliamentarians, the Defender of Rights, the referents, or the professionals. Finally, it seems to us that the partial abolition of the juries of seats comes at a time when the strengthening of the links between the population and the institutions is called for up to the roundabouts. The bill also avoids certain fundamental issues. In particular, it would have been necessary to meet the legitimate expectations of the French, 95 per cent of whom believe that justice is too slow and not effective, by settling the issue of time limits for judgement – there is no provision on this point. And beyond that, there is also no provision that facilitates the enforcement of judgments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u187	All arrangements!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u188	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches as well as on several FI benches]] In conclusion, "justice must be organized around citizens: to be closer to them, to be more accessible, and to function more effectively." These are the very words of Emmanuel Macron, in introduction to his program for justice. We do not find here the translation of this vision and, for this reason, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u189	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u190	The members of the IUD, Action and Independent Group are finally happy to be able to speak today with the prospect of a solemn vote, strongly demanded on all benches. So we'll have such an election, and that's so much better! Reform on a subject as fundamental as justice demands this formality, without which it would not be treated to its fair value. Minister, with your reform, we had great ambitions. The changes in our society are manifest and rapid: the exponential arrival and deployment of new technologies, new family models, the resurgence of terrorism and the judicialization of social relations. All this affects our justice, which must change in order to adapt. The real question is how it can meet the many challenges it faces. For years, reforms of the justice system have been taking place, at a minimum, by never giving it the place and the means it deserves. The bills that were introduced to us a few months ago seemed to have something different: real programming for the means of justice, the adaptation of the courts to the digital, the reorganization of the jurisdiction of the judge, a better consideration of the victims, and all this in civil and administrative law as well as in criminal law. On these starting principles, we agreed and waited a lot. We really wanted the bill to be a success. As it was introduced in the Senate, of course, it required changes: that is what the dialogue between us is for. However, it must be noted that the study of this bill was ultimately stifled, both in form and substance. On the form, unfortunately, I am obliged to go back to the holding of the debates. I do not want to repeat repeated criticisms repeatedly heard: too little time between tabling and reading, an agenda repeatedly amended, too few amendments adopted by the majority. But I want to take stock of their consequences today. Clearly, you did not give Parliament the credit you said you wanted to show it. In substance, you have proposed a text with a very technical content in appearance, but in practice leading to great upheavals for the justice of our country. We have therefore studied it with the attention it deserves, in order to propose frameworks, accompaniments, modifications consistent with the original ideas, but allowing us to respond to the concerns raised throughout our discussions. It is regrettable that progress has finally been so few, and at the margin. We are therefore disappointed. But we also remain in a certain misunderstanding of your refusal to hear what others have to say. It is not political naivety, Madam Keeper of the Seals: we know that each majority wishes to have its texts voted in the spirit of their drafting. But we are somewhat disconcerted in the face of, on the one hand, your attentive ear and the care you take to always respond to each of us, which is very appreciative, and on the other side of the unfavorable opinions in mass, without ever any concession. I will take only one example: if you do not want to close any court – which would be very good, we all share this will – why then do you refuse to include it in the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u191	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u192	You want to highlight the "truths" of this text, but these are always only yours, and we have not obtained any guarantee. That is why, if our discussions are concluded for the time being, our vigilance will always be equal on the follow-up given to the implementation of this text if it is to be voted on. You said that you would maintain in its entirety the territorial network of judicial settlements, namely 304 trial courts, 164 courts of general jurisdiction and 36 courts of appeal: be sure that this count will be made regularly! We will also continue to pay close attention to the progress of work on juvenile justice. A work of the Ministry of Justice in autarcia will not be an option. The new method of work you are proposing is not ideal, but we want to give it his chance. On the other hand, the consequences of a new disappointment would be serious. We will also be very scrupulous to monitor the results of the various experiments you wish to carry out, whether on the review of maintenance payments by the family allowance funds, the institution of the criminal court or the specialization of the courts of appeal. Finally, we will try to ensure that equality between litigants is respected so as not to increase the territorial divide or the digital divide. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and a few benches of the LR group]] You have said it, Madam Minister, and that is true, of course, you are not accounting for the choices that will be made by the majorities that will succeed you. But you may well be responsible, however, for facilitating certain tasks and opening up certain paths. This is what we wanted to avoid; That's what you refused us. That is why the IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote in majority against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u193	Throughout the draft organic law and the draft law, elections are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u194	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and LR. – Mr. Christian Hutin also applauds]] Well done, Madam Minister! Bravo, you have succeeded what no one had succeeded before you: putting all the professionals of the law on the back – lawyers, magistrates, everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u195	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u196	Even the prison administration is starting today. I note that unions, with a majority of union members, are organizing themselves to launch, potentially, a new strike movement. Why are they unhappy even in the prison administration, when we are supposed to build 7,000 prison places? Because that's not what they want; This is not what is desirable. Because this sum of 1.7 billion euros put in the construction could be used to finance only the hiring of the sufficient number of magistrates, the sufficient number of clerks, the sufficient number of prison guards – with the compensation scheme and the index grid that go with it. Finally, this budget is only rising through the construction of prison places. But we need, as you know, a double movement of prison deflation and criminal deflation. It is also a text of dehumanization of justice, not just because of the use of digital technology, but because it serves to reduce the number of judges. Your objective is indeed to oblige users to use this system, so that in a number of procedures, one can only go through digital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u197	We don't force anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u198	All this takes place not only against legal professionals, but also against litigants. You're, in a way, setting up class justice. Of course, no one is against mediation, but when the use of platforms becomes mandatory, and paying, it starts to pose a problem, because not everyone has the means to pay for it. This is where you keep the justiciable from justice, and even from his judge. The generalization of compulsory legal representation is in line with this, even though we have not opened up any debate on legal aid. You promise us it'll be open at the right time... When we see the tumult in this assembly and the texts that follow each other with sometimes unforeseen rhythms, we can doubt it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u199	Rocambolesque...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u200	A very bad signal was given on December 27th: a decree was issued – I suppose you all saw it, on December 27th... – reducing the compensation of lawyers intervening in the litigation of foreigners. That is what you are doing, Minister: you are reducing the compensation of value units for lawyers in this area. Often, the justice of foreigners is a ground for experimentation to degrade justice, as evidenced by the development of video conferencing. With your bill, community justice will no longer be on the table, as a result of the merger of the courts of first instance and high court, and above all the principle of specialization. If you have the misfortune of experiencing specialized litigation, you may have to cross your department or go to the neighbouring department. Previously, you were going to court next to your house, bar-point! That's the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u201	But that was before...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u202	The use of mandatory mediation for small daily conflicts also increases the exclusion of part of the population from access to justice. This is true, in particular, for the judicial system, which is nevertheless a quality justice. The bill also strengthens the deterioration of criminal justice and law enforcement. On the one hand, the control of the judicial authority over the police investigation is declining, with the reduction of the control of magistrates over judicial police officers, while the magistrate remains the guarantor of a criminal procedure that ultimately escapes him. On the other hand, derogating regimes in criminal proceedings are becoming more widespread: it's open bar! Lower thresholds for the use of coercive measures, generalisation of telephone wiretapping and sub-pseudonym investigation, extension of the use of special investigative techniques... Finally, this bill is in line with repressive legislation, which we are still discussing with the "anti-casseurs" bill – supposedly only anti-casseurs: in fact, it is an anti-demonstration bill. With the reduction of the possibilities for the adjustment of prison sentences, and this is the paradox of the Government's communication on this bill, it will be impossible for the remainder of sentences between one and two years: this will continue to fill prisons. Finally, with the disappearance of popular juries, the people are, in the end, permanently excluded from judgments. That's what you're proposing. And, by the way, as if that wasn't enough, you add a reform of juvenile justice by order! [[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] They're not methods! That is not what we expect from justice reform! It should address the feeling of injustice, especially what benefits the powerful. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will strongly oppose this text today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u203	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u204	It's probably a bad dream... The President of the Republic has just written to the French that they will have to choose the level of public service that they consider necessary for the cohesion of the country. At the same time, you submit to the vote of the Assembly a double text that reduces one of the public services inscribed at the heart of our republican pact: justice! You are asking us to adopt, on behalf of the people, a text that organizes the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. A text that opens the way tomorrow for a possible extension of justice without a judge. A text that takes in its cartons future restructurings in the territorial organisation of justice because it siphons the competences of the ill-named small courts. Tomorrow, as you know, only one report from the Court of Auditors will be enough for the Government to close empty shells, which have become insufficiently profitable. A text that will encourage the large number of people to renounce the arbitration of justice in certain disputes. A justice that you tailor for those whom your majority represents: the knowing, the connected, those who have no cultural difficulty with the dematerialized administration, no financial difficulty to be accompanied by an auxiliary of justice and who do not need to take their car to access the public services. A text that does not truly set out its reasons: to save money, to reduce the stock of cases, without being able to deal with them with undiminished justice tools, within acceptable time frames. The real motive of these two texts is the renunciation of the upgrading of the means of justice, which suffers not from the number of its courts of full exercise but from a budget per capita twice as much as that of our German neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u205	We're increasing it by 25%!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u206	A text which, in its general philosophy, aside from a few provisions which do not eat bread, has not as a political project to be at the service of all. A text inspired by the liberalism of our president who, like the donkey running behind the carrot, runs behind Brussels, like his predecessors; which runs behind the promises of austerity, those promises that we never catch but that catch up with you as they catch up with France on the roundabouts and in the addition of angers. What is needed is to unload the donkey, stop with this logic and these kinds of carrots cultivated in the garden of liberal economists and technocrats. I truly believe you, Madam Minister. You did not spare your time to reassure us, but I fear that you have not measured the risk that your reform will involve in the long term for our territories. [[Hubert Wulfranc applauds]] Are we exaggerating? I refer you to the effects of the reform of the Labour Code on the renunciation of employees to the labour justice system. I refer you to the consolidation of proximity disputes in the cantonal capitals, due to the Dati reform, carried out yesterday by the right. This text is consistent with the consciousness, the subconscious, the liberal unconscious of your majority. For the Liberals, there is no room for everyone at the banquet of nature, and in your project, there is no room for everyone at the table of justice. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I am learning that your willingness to transfer to the family allowance funds acts relating to maintenance will apply at the time when 2000 job losses are provided for in the agreement on objectives and means between the State and the CAF.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u207	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u208	At the precise moment when the President writes to the French that they must determine the level of public service they want, you ask us to reduce this level in the field of justice. What a contempt! I hear this everywhere in France, as in Douai, at my colleague, Alain Bruneel. Of two things one: either the debate is nothing but bullshit, as they say in my house; either you have not measured the major contradiction between the letter of the Head of State and this reform, and in this case, history is not played. Minister, you have this experience of trials whose course suddenly changes, swept away by a new, extraordinary circumstance. This circumstance presents itself to you: it is this great debate, and the promise that it would not be to keep within the scope of manoeuvres; It is the crisis that shakes our Republic, this crisis which, on a yellow background, adds the white, the black, the red, the blue of the great rainbow of France that is lacking, of France that doubts its representative democracy. I dream that, suddenly, your bill will be swept away by this extraordinary circumstance and that you will have to put it in the drawers of power. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote unambiguously against these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u209	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u210	I am speaking on behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group. Madam Keeper of the Seals, when examining these texts at first reading, I would like to convey to you the concerns of the Liberties and Territories Group with regard to the provisions that you proposed to us to adopt in order to reform our justice system. Today, as the solemn vote is about to take place, let me tell you that our fears have not been lifted. These concerns concern a development of justice towards less proximity to the justiciable and less meaning for the decision of justice, in particular through the accentuation of dematerialization and the specialization of the courts left to the arbitrariness of the heads of courts. They are shared by all the justice professionals, who have kept reminding you throughout the review of these texts. Again this week, the solemn hearings of the courts of major jurisdiction were boycotted by many magistrates. It was not corporatism, fear of change or conservatism of an ancient world that led these magistrates to suspend hearings or demonstrate, but rather the same feeling that justice would be less accessible. You refused to hear the mobilization of the judiciary. This is particularly regrettable at a time when our fellow citizens are calling on your government to listen more to their difficulties and expectations. By listening to them, aware that the justice of our country is an essential public service, you might have been able to suspend consideration of this text pending the resumption of the national debate. In this regard, I regret that justice does not have a greater place in the intentions of this debate. There was an interest in the inclusion of justice, because it raises the question of the presence of the State and its public services in our territories. A real question is indeed being asked, that of access to the judge. This bill marks a new stage in the removal of the judge, since the defendant will first have to determine whether his case falls within a specialized dispute, dealt with by a court of general jurisdiction in his department or in another department. In view of the specialisation of certain cases at first instance and on appeal, the litigant will sometimes have to travel more than 300 kilometres, with means of transport which, as you know, are not perfect in rural areas. You will thus create judicial deserts and aggravate the territorial divide. Moreover, the virtuality of the judge is a risk that the consolidation of the video conferencing system poses. We all know that this system intends to remedy the recurrent insufficiency of resources, to the detriment of the people who are entitled to it. Deportation will also be evident with the national court of main instance dealing with orders for payment in a dematerialised manner. Could it, for example, monitor creditors' abuse of consumer law? How can we finally imagine that an offence tried at first instance with a single judge can also be tried in the same way on appeal? For practice, we know the risks of exercise. Madam Keeper of the Seals, is this how we give confidence in justice to our fellow citizens? Our group doesn't believe it. Justice must be directed to our fellow citizens, close, accessible and understood. It must not be reserved for the most skilled, except to create new fractures. I would add that the reform of juvenile justice cannot take place out of the sight of parliamentarians, as much as it is necessary to ensure the primacy of education for our young people in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u211	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group as well as on several benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups]] This text does not reflect our group's view of the organization of our justice. That is why, in the vast majority, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u213	I put to the vote the whole of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u214	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 543 Number of votes cast 538 Absolute majority 270 For adoption 325 Against 213
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u215	I put to the vote the whole of the organic bill on strengthening the organization of the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u216	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 543 Number of votes cast 539 Absolute majority 270 For adoption 327 Against 212
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u217	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u218	[[The sitting was suspended at seventeen and resumed at seventeen, with Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u219	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u220	The Conference of Presidents meeting this morning adopted the proposal for an agenda for the control week of 5 February: debate on access to social rights; debate on the action of the State in the exercise of its sovereign missions in Seine-Saint-Denis; questions about police action during the mobilizations of yellow vests; debate on school in the digital society; debate on the tax advantages given to the most affluent French people since 2017; questions on the implementation of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all; debate on the gold mountain project. In the absence of any objection, it was so decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u221	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law establishing the French Biodiversity Office, amending the missions of the hunters' federations and strengthening the environmental police (No. 1402, 1482) and of the draft organic law amending Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution (No. 1401, 1492, 1483). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u222	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u223	We are starting to consider the bill to create the French Office for Biodiversity – OFB. I am very pleased that we are in time, in accordance with the timetable we announced last year. This text, while mainly concerned with the creation of a public institution, resulting from the merger of two existing institutions, and may, in this regard, seem technical, is part of a political continuity and a legislative history dedicated to the protection of nature, the environment and biodiversity. One can think of the 1976 law on the protection of nature – it was not yet a question of biodiversity –, the 1993 law on landscapes, as well as the 2016 law, which you had worn as minister, Madam rapporteur, for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, a law that allowed the creation of the French Agency for Biodiversity. This parliamentary history undoubtedly reflects the growing importance that legislators have given to nature protection. It also confirms that biodiversity is no longer a theoretical concept, but has become an everyday concern for our citizens. To paraphrase Victor Hugo, "When I tell you about her, I'm talking about us." We are a part of biodiversity and we are dependent on it; We live in interdependence with nature in all its components. Maintaining biodiversity is a condition of our own survival. Nature renders us invaluable services, including economic services: wetlands provide us with drinking water, insects pollinate our fields, allowing agriculture to be productive, dunes and mangroves protect us from storms and limit the damage they can cause, oceans regulate the climate, and I could cite many other examples. France's responsibility in this area is both global, national and territorial. France is home to remarkable biodiversity, with 10% of the world's known species. This diversity, we owe in large part to the wealth of the overseas and the vastness of our maritime space, the second most important in the world, again thanks to our ultramarine presence. Today, the global erosion of biodiversity poses a serious threat to our societies, and even to us human beings. The rate of extinction of species is more than a hundred times higher than the annual rate observed in the previous ten million years. On the planet, the number of wild vertebrates has declined by 60% over the past 40 years. In France, 26% of species are threatened or almost threatened with extinction. There is little doubt that this degradation is directly related to the impacts of human activities: various and varied pollutions, artificialization of soils, fragmentation of habitats, overexploitation of resources, invasive alien species that have been imported into our territory, trafficking in protected species – almost daily, the services of my ministry and those of customs unfortunately intercept species that have nothing to do with world trade. All these pressures are compounded by climate change. This further increases the erosion of biodiversity as a result of increasing temperature on the surface of the earth, rising sea levels, increasing acidity of the oceans and amplification of extreme events. Thus, disruption of climate balances threatens biodiversity, as loss of biodiversity exacerbates climate change in a terrible vicious circle. So we have to fight these two battles together. And if, in recent years, we have won a cultural battle in the fight against climate change that is no longer in dispute, at least in our country, I hope that tomorrow we share the same level of mobilization for the recovery of biodiversity. As you know, the Government has adopted a number of complementary strategies in the fight against climate change. Without committing to a comprehensive inventory, however, I will mention the climate plan, the national climate change adaptation plan, and, of course, the multi-annual energy programming and the national low-carbon strategy. Some strategies are at the confluence of climate and biodiversity issues. This is the case with the national strategy to combat imported deforestation, a document that puts France at the forefront of this fight in the world. In the area of biodiversity, too, the Government was taking decisive action. Pending the revision of the national biodiversity strategy in 2020, a biodiversity plan was launched in 2018. As concrete, it identifies 90 measures to act in the territories, build a low-impact economy, protect and restore nature. But the Government also wants the protection of biodiversity to be seen as an opportunity: an opportunity to create meaning, link and value; an opportunity to restore solidarity between the city and the countryside; an opportunity to change our production patterns in favour of more resilient systems that restore ecosystems; an opportunity to improve our living environment and to reshape our relationship with nature. The recovery of biodiversity, we lead it first in the territories. In the first line on these issues, the regions have already taken steps that bear fruit: I am thinking in particular of the regional biodiversity agencies, established by the 2016 law, as well as the territories committed to nature, which are gradually testing. Specific actions have also been taken in the overseas regions to protect our particular ecosystems, including subantarctic and tropical ecosystems. Within the latter, coral reefs and mangroves will benefit from a suitable protection plan. At the same time, collective action at the international level must also be encouraged. France is working on this: in 2019, it will host the seventh plenary session of the Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, then chair the G7 environment, where the topic of biodiversity will be central; Finally, in 2020, in Marseilles, we will host the World Congress of the International Union for Conservation of Nature, which will prepare for the fifteenth meeting of the parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, to be held in China at the end of 2020. This sequence should allow us to give new impetus to biodiversity. Our action to promote biodiversity must therefore be concrete, be on all scales and have scope in all latitudes. It must involve all public and private actors. This is the only possible option for progress. It is in order to meet all these needs, both international and very local, but also because the stakes are diverse for terrestrial, marine or aquatic environments, that we need a strong public operator who can carry out a common and integrated policy. This State operator must be present at all levels, to support everyone in the conduct of biodiversity recovery actions, whether they be State services, communities, socio-economic actors, civil society or, directly, citizens. Today, after so many years of delay and an aborted attempt under the previous legislature, the conditions are finally in place for us to set up this great operator of biodiversity and the preservation of nature. We look forward to the adoption of this bill to achieve this: the Agence française pour la biodiversité and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage will merge within the French Biodiversity Office, a name chosen by the agents of the two institutions concerned, who have been consulted for this purpose. The bill that you are going to look at reflects specific objectives: to create an operator that will enable us to understand biodiversity in all its aspects, to take over the missions of the Agence française pour la biodiversité – AFB – and of the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage – ONCFS – and to be present at national level, both in metropolis and overseas; equip the biodiversity plan and the water bases with a leading field operator to ensure the implementation of actions in the territories, alongside all partners; strengthen the environmental police, particularly in rural areas, by bringing together, in a single State service, the environmental inspectors of the Agence française pour la biodiversité and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage; create the conditions for adaptive management of certain species in order to adjust the samples according to their conservation status, which requires an operator capable of centralizing and analysing the data; Finally, to generalize and perpetuate in the law the contribution of hunters' federations to actions to preserve and regain biodiversity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Before I give the floor to Emmanuelle Wargon, I would like to pay tribute to her commitment to this text, in accordance with the mandate, if I may say so, that I entrusted her when she was appointed Secretary of State with me. I think I can say that it has begun a close and fruitful work with parliamentarians, as it has with institutional and associative actors. That should be stressed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I hope that this work will continue in the same spirit, particularly during the legislative debate which is taking place here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u224	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u225	To complement the remarks made by Mr. François de Rugy, Minister of State, I will focus on the three main aspects of the bill that we are presenting to you: the creation of the French Biodiversity Office, the strengthening of the environmental police and the measures that contribute to the pursuit of sustainable hunting. As the Minister of State has pointed out, the French Biodiversity Office, created by bringing together the Agence française pour la biodiversité and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage, will be the strong public operator that I believe all the actors involved in biodiversity want. The text presented to you this afternoon has been extensively reworked and enriched in committee. I think I can say that several points of balance were found during these debates, notably on the name of the operator, "Office français de la biodiversité", which, as the Minister of State said, corresponds to the choice of agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u226	The hunt is gone...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u227	The examination of the text in committee also clarified the tasks of the institution and the modalities of its governance, although the latter was the subject of much discussion. In this regard, I would like to return in particular to the question of overseas. As pointed out in committee and recalled by the Minister of State, the issue of biodiversity overseas is very important. In addition, in the text, we insist on the intervention of the operator in all French overseas communities, in accordance with their own competences. We have already taken into account the need for overseas presence in governance bodies, while maintaining a tighter composition on the Board of Directors. I know this is important. I pledge to follow with great attention the discussions on this subject. The question of the means of establishment has also been raised frequently in committee and will, I am sure, also be raised in open session. The Office will, of course, have to have the long-term means to enable it to function. We discuss this with the directors of the ABB and ONCFS, as well as the prefigurator, of course, and stakeholders. As I said in committee, we will have to deal with this with energy and determination in the debate on the 2020 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u228	It's got to be settled first!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u229	The second important aspect of this bill is the strengthening of the environmental police. We propose, by this text, to supplement the powers of environmental inspectors. Many additions have been made in committee to the measures provided for in the original text, and the Government will present additional amendments this evening. One of them is intended to allow environmental inspectors to issue a rogatory commission. The aim is to allow them to conduct their investigations without divestment in favour of other categories of police officers, less specialists in particular subjects which the French Biodiversity Office will have to deal with. One question arises: should we go further by giving environmental inspectors powers equivalent to those of judicial police officers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u230	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u231	It is a complex and sensitive subject, on which we wish to continue to work, in order to find the right link with the police and the gendarmerie. That is why the Minister of State and the keeper of the seals have just assigned to two inspections a mission on environmental justice, which will allow us to quickly obtain an answer as to the contours to be found in order to maintain good coordination and working conditions in common between the officers of the OFB, the gendarmes and the police.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u232	We must therefore refer the text back to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u233	More broadly, environmental policing in rural areas remains an important issue. The creation of the Office français de la biodiversité, which will bring together field teams, will make it possible to better distribute agents in space and to target action more closely on priority environmental issues. I would remind you, however, that the new establishment will bring together 1,700 inspectors, who alone will not be able to provide the environmental police in rural areas, hence the necessary coordination with, inter alia, the gendarmerie, the municipal police, the rural guards and the agents of the National Forestry Office, respecting their respective prerogatives. This point must also be considered in the context of the pre-figuration of the new establishment and the task of environmental justice. We have also committed ourselves, in committee, to finding a way to remove the reference to an order at the end of the text. This commitment will be fulfilled, since the Government will submit an amendment to remove legislative authority and to include the corresponding measures in the text in extenso. Finally, this text contains a number of sensitive and important measures in the direction of an increasingly sustainable hunt. First of all, we want to strengthen hunting safety. On the one hand, the text provides for the compulsory training of the accompanying person. On the other hand, the Government has tabled an amendment aimed at introducing some national rules and which, as is the case in the road code, provides for a system of retention and suspension of permits in the event of a serious breach of a safety or accident rule. It seems to me that this measure is of a nature to reassure all those who ask themselves questions about hunting safety and will help to preserve a peaceful coexistence between hunters and citizens who walk the weekend. Secondly, the text tends to recognise and generalise the contribution of hunters to biodiversity, in particular by allowing the co-financing of actions for biodiversity by hunters' federations and public actors. This text finally puts in place adaptive management of species. Several parliamentary amendments aim to define more precisely the nature and purpose of such adaptive management. In order to supplement the obligation to declare the levies, the Government will submit an amendment to allow for the setting of levy quotas for the species concerned. In addition, an Adaptive Management Expert Committee will be set up very soon by regulation. In addition, the text provides for the transfer of local hunting management missions to departmental hunter federations. On the one hand, the transfer of management of approved communal hunting associations was approved in committee. On the other hand, the Government has tabled an amendment aimed at transferring the management of hunting plans to departmental hunters' federations, while retaining the prefect's power to set global targets and the possibility of taking over in case of serious dysfunction. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I hope that the work in this House will allow us to move forward on all these points, in the same constructive spirit that has presided over the work in committee. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u234	Mrs Pompili, chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u235	Today we are considering two texts: the draft law establishing the French Biodiversity Office, amending the missions of the hunters' federations and strengthening the environmental police, and the draft organic law amending the organic law of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of article 13 of the Constitution, which deals with the appointment of the general management of the future establishment. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning considered the first text in substance and the second for opinion. The first word that comes to mind is: "At last! » What progress! Finally, we see this beautiful project of rapprochement between the AFB and the ONCFS. I therefore wish, in the preamble, to express my enthusiasm for this draft text. It will make it possible to realize our ambition and to pursue a determined policy for biodiversity. This is necessary: it does not happen a month without a new study confirming the urgency of action, which we are all fully aware of here. As the Minister of State recalled, the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes allowed the creation of the Agence française pour la biodiversité, on January 1, 2017, by merging four public institutions. Finally, it was essential to put biodiversity on the same footing as the fight against climate change, since it was the two sides of the same coin. Nevertheless, the creation of a large agency integrating the National Office for Hunting and Wildlife, the initial ambition of the biodiversity law, had not been successful in 2016. Fortunately, the dialogue with the cynegetic world has never ceased, and it is to be welcomed. The meeting of the AFB and ONCFS within a new agency is therefore expected to take place on 1 January 2020. This project aims to increase the effectiveness of water and biodiversity policies through improved knowledge and monitoring, conservation and management measures. The text will strengthen the environmental police in the field, as closely as possible to the concrete needs, and support it with a recognised scientific and technical expertise. This powerful operator will have nearly 3,000 agents, spread throughout the country. We will have to pay particular attention to accompanying staff. The merger of the AFB and the ONCFS, made possible today, is part of the hunting agreements that took place this summer, which also provide for the reduction of the cynegetic fees – included in the draft finance bill for 2019 – and the implementation of adaptive management of species, i.e. the possibility of adjusting the levies on certain wildlife species according to the conservation status of their population. The work carried out in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, in the presence of the Secretary of State, has considerably enriched the draft law establishing the French Biodiversity Office. Our discussions have been very constructive and exciting, and the place of legislative work in the drafting of this text is to be welcomed. Our committee has also issued an opinion in favour of the draft organic law to include the general management of the new institution, and no longer the chair of the board of directors, as was the case with the AFB, in the list of appointments of the President of the Republic made after the advice of the competent committees of the National Assembly and the Senate. I will only briefly comment on the main developments that have taken place during our work in committee. Article 1 provides for the creation of a new public institution, resulting from the rapprochement of the FAB and the ONCFS. It was named, as the Secretary of State said, on the basis of the results of the staff consultation conducted by the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition: French Biodiversity Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u236	We reaffirmed the territorial nature of the establishment and wanted to mention the regional biodiversity agencies in order not to call into question, and even to encourage the dynamics initiated in our territories. This objective was shared by all within the committee. The position of the overseas countries and territories in the Office has been consolidated in accordance with a wish expressed, again, on all of our benches. We shall return to that, I think, in the course of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u237	Certainly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u238	The commission has better defined the missions of the French Biodiversity Office and re-incorporated certain missions of the AFB and ONCFS into the law, which will make the richness of the intervention of the future establishment. These include the mention of all habitats and the restoration of biodiversity; the fight against biopiracy and the monitoring of the mechanism for access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use – APA – the management of wildlife and the improvement of its habitats; monitoring of ecological compensation, including the ERC problem – avoid, reduce, compensate – or the artificialisation of soils; communication and awareness-raising activities, which must be deployed to all actors and publics, because we need a better awareness of the problem of biodiversity in France; the development of the national biodiversity strategy and the monitoring of its implementation; the financial support provided by the Office. Balances within the board of directors have evolved for richer governance, with the state having the majority of votes with qualified personalities. Respect for parity has been included in the text. The specific overseas representation has been added. The powers of the Board of Directors have been supplemented. The role of the Scientific Council was enshrined in the Act, as well as that of the Policy Committee. Article 2 strengthens the powers of environmental inspectors in the context of their judicial police duties, in particular those of the future establishment. During the debates in committee, we strengthened those powers again. This allowed environmental inspectors to travel throughout the country when required by their investigations and gave them access to the national registry to facilitate the identification of offenders. Finally, we have clarified the procedure for the return of plants and animals seized as part of an infringement to the natural environment. Our committee has also adopted an Article 2a which gives environmental inspectors the opportunity to monitor certain breaches of the internal security code related to the carrying of weapons. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Government will, of course, have to give inspectors access by regulation to the files of the possessors and the prohibitions of weapons, so that they can fully carry out their duties. Article 3 provides for several measures relating to hunting, in connection with the creation of the OFB: the obligation to act in favour of biodiversity for the federations of hunters, the transfer of the task of issuing the permit to hunt accompanied to the federations of hunters, the introduction of an obligation to train the attendant, the transfer to the OFB of the management of the central register of permits issued, validations and permits to hunt, as was the case before 2005, the obligation for hunters to transmit data from their collections of species subject to adaptive management. On this last point, during the examination of the text in committee, we clarified how this data transmission is to be applied and the penalties for non-transmission. As part of the examination in committee, and in response to a request from our committee debates, I will defend an amendment to define adaptive management in the law. Following the creation of the AFB-ONCFS, or rather OFB, section 4 transfers, free of charge, all of the assets, rights and obligations of the AFB and the ONCFS to the future public institution. Article 5 ensures the transfer of staff from the merged establishments to the new establishment. I stress that staff will have to be accompanied in this transformation. The Commission has also adopted an additional article to ask the Government to examine the possibilities of requalification of all category C staff into category B and of progression of management staff towards category A, which I can attest to, in view of the responsibilities exercised. Article 8 shall carry out the legal co-ordinations resulting from the establishment of that institution. Article 9 empowers the Government to legislate by order in several areas relating to the administrative police: the administrative control procedures relating to the health police, the legal framework relating to the taking of samples, the arrangements for the collection of fines, periodic penalty payments and administrative records, and the procedures for large-scale contraventions affecting certain natural areas. Finally, section 10 sets out the different dates for the coming into force of the measures contained in the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, the work in committee has been very rich. It took place in a constructive state of mind. I have no doubt that this will be the same in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u239	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u240	First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Minister of State, the Secretary of State, and all the parties who have worked to bring the Agence française pour la biodiversité together with the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage. This reform, which has been expected for many years, has required long consultation, which will undoubtedly continue following the adoption of the two texts before us today. The creation of the French Biodiversity Office, as proposed to appoint the new establishment on 1 January 2020, will indeed give more coherence and expertise to our biodiversity policy, as was recalled by the Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and rapporteur for the ordinary text. A text resulting from the committee's work and presenting a number of amendments to the original text, which I believe is in the right direction, is now before us for consideration and the discussions that will follow will certainly be rich, as the policies in question are decisive for our territories. While, of course, the law commissioners have followed with interest the work of their colleagues in the Committee on Sustainable Development, we have had before us an organic bill whose purpose is much more limited than that of the ordinary bill. Since the constitutional revision of 2008, the Parliament may decide whether to submit the appointment to certain public posts by the President of the Republic, as provided for in article 13 of the Constitution, to the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees. I would point out that the list of these jobs is annexed to the Organic Act of 23 July 2010 and that any change leads us to decide, on the one hand, on the need to seek the opinion of Parliament in view of the importance of the employment concerned, and on the other hand, on the nature of this employment, since, according to the institutions, we decide on the personality chosen to exercise either the Presidency, the Directorate-General or even the personalities proposed for these two functions. About 50 jobs are concerned, on the ground that they are, according to the letter of Article 13 of the Constitution, "important for the guarantee of the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation". To date, only one addition to this list has been censored by the Constitutional Council: that of the presidency of the National Audiovisual Institute, as provided for in the 2013 Public Audiovisual Independence Act. The Council considered that it did not fall within the scope of the Constitution. Apart from this case alone, the jobs concerned take part in a wide range of public policies, since they cover both the presidency of the Autorité de la concurrence and that of nuclear safety, the general management of the Agence française de développement and that of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. In addition, in the coming weeks we will also have to decide on the appointment, in accordance with this particular procedure, of the Director General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, whose tasks and operating conditions are currently the subject of work in our respective committees, as you know, Madam rapporteur. In this context, the question before us in the context of the organic bill is the following: are the tasks entrusted to the future French Biodiversity Office important enough to justify the application of this procedure to provide its Directorate-General? As rapporteur for this text, I consider that to be the case of course. Why? First of all, the President of the Agence française pour la biodiversité is already appointed in accordance with this procedure, following, moreover, a parliamentary initiative in this direction. Secondly, the new Office will also be responsible for the tasks which so far had to be carried out by the National Hunting Authority. It shows that this new player will be key to an effective policy of resource management and biodiversity protection. This is one of the major issues that our territories will have to address and that, increasingly, feed on pressing expectations on the part of citizens. I therefore wholeheartedly support the continuation of an appointment procedure on which Parliament can decide. The Government also proposes that the Commission on Sustainable Development, which is in this case the competent committee, should no longer decide on the choice of the chairman of the board of directors of the institution, as was the case, as I pointed out, for the AFB, but on the appointment of the Director General. I stress that the latter will have the responsibility to make a concrete rapprochement between the two merging institutions and to implement new working procedures and collaboration between the teams. The success of this merger and the ability of the new establishment to be operational as soon as possible will therefore depend to a large extent on its action. The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development, draftsman of the opinion of the draft organic law, supports this position. I will agree with him and with the Government on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will have the opportunity to come back to these various subjects during our debates, since almost 400 amendments should be discussed, but, for my part, and in the light of these elements of presentation, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the organic bill before us, as amended by the work of the Law Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u241	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Group of the European People's Party to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law establishing the French Biodiversity Office, amending the missions of the hunters' federations and strengthening the environmental police. Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u242	Since the 1960s and 1970s, my political family, that of the right and the centre, has always been present at the major legislative meetings concerning the environment and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u243	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u244	We have made a great deal of progress in this area. It was under the presidency of Georges Pompidou that for the first time, in January 1971, a minister delegated to the Prime Minister, responsible for the protection of nature and the environment, was appointed, at the time, by Robert Poujade. As early as 1973, this ministry became a full-fledged ministry. Our political family has also had the initiative and carried out major legislative developments in the field of the environment and sustainable development: the law of 22 July 1960 establishing national parks; the Law of 16 December 1964 on the regime and distribution of water and the control of its pollution, the first founding text of water resource management with the Law of 3 January 1992; The Act of 23 December 1964 establishing the National Forestry Authority and the Act of 10 July 1976 on the Protection of Nature. All these texts have helped to lay the foundations of environmental law as we know it today. More recently, with the Act of 30 December 1996 on air and the rational use of energy, we have also recognized, even if the subject remains relevant, the right of everyone to breathe an air that does not harm their health. This is a law of the Republic, voted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u245	In short, the right has done everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u246	With the 2004 Environment Charter issued by President Jacques Chirac, of whom I was, together with Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, the rapporteur, we set new and ambitious constitutional objectives. Previously, no government had given constitutional status and legal force to the protection of the environment. Finally, it is the family of the right and the center that, thanks to Nicolas Sarkozy and Jean-Louis Borloo, carried the Grenelle de l'environnement in 2007, bringing together all the actors involved in the field of ecology. No less than 268 commitments have been made in favour of ecology, the environment and the conservation of biodiversity. Last example: the laws of 3 August 2009 and 12 July 2010 have taken measures to combat global warming. If I wanted to go back to these great advances in the environmental field from the outset of this motion for referral back to committee, it was above all to twist the neck to the recurring idea that the right would have nothing but to do with ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u248	Our political family has played a pioneering role and has been at the initiative of major reforms, like other political families. We have taken a very large part in defending the environmental cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u249	This reminder was necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u250	It is animated by this state of mind that the members of the group The Republicans participated in the committee work. In particular, Jean-Marie Sermier, Vincent Descoeur, Emmanuel Maquet, Jean-Yves Bony, Gérard Menuel and Fabrice Brun were very present during the two days and two nights we spent in committee on this text. Throughout our work, we wanted to be a force for proposals, introducing several amendments aimed at improving the bill and responding to questions from the field, both environmental associations and the hunting world. You will agree, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, that our interventions have been – and will be in the future – a reflection of this state of mind, which we have already demonstrated in the past with regard to certain founding environmental texts. Like you, we want to bring our stone to the building because we share the view of your majority, expressed in the bill's explanatory memorandum: "Protection and restoration of water resources and biodiversity" is a "major issue for society." We have appreciated, Madam Secretary of State, your presence in committee throughout our debates...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u251	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u252	... as well as the technical meetings that you have organised, involving the opposition MP I am, between the meetings in committee and the examination in open session. I wanted to thank you for that. Unfortunately, and as your comments have confirmed, our debates in committee have also revealed many questions and difficulties for which we have not yet received an answer. I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that, after my speech, you will vote for the referral back to committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u253	We don't doubt any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u254	... so that we can improve certain provisions of the text before it returns to session. First of all, we regret, Madam Secretary of State, as is the case with many bills, the too frequent reference to orders or orders-in-councils. We want greater transparency. You have just announced that you have tabled an amendment, but it has not been studied in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u255	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u256	We would like to go back to the committee to find out the content. While all the actors in this case are calling for simplification of procedures, the draft law creates additional constraints in its current wording and makes procedures more complex. This is reflected in Article 3, which requires the departmental federations of hunters to transmit to the new office the list of members who have validated their hunting permits. In other words, we will create a national file that does not currently exist...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u257	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u258	... which will contain information on 1.3 million people. We have already discussed the substance of the matter. As with the creation of any file, we therefore wish – I have submitted an argument to this effect – that the opinion of the CNIL be collected and that this authority frame the content and use of the file. I am sure you will join us on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u259	This file already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u260	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u261	That would deserve us to discuss it in committee. [["That's right! » on the benches of the LR group]] Another problem is the name of the future establishment. That name, you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, is a strong symbol. This is absolutely not an insignificant choice. You cannot consider that the name of the institution that will translate France's biodiversity ambition into action, both in our country and internationally, would be an anecdotal choice. The name of the future structure will determine its identity and the tasks assigned to it. As part of the merger between AFB and ONCFS, it is therefore essential that the two former institutions regain their identity in the name of the future Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u262	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u263	However, at the end of our discussions in the Committee on Sustainable Development, the word "hunt" has completely disappeared from the name chosen, now "Office français de la biodiversité".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u264	That's unfortunate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u265	That seems to us, Madam Secretary of State, a very bad signal sent to the world of hunting...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u266	An unfortunate forgetfulness!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u267	... while the intention pursued by the promoters of this merger was in particular to make hunters the first citizen actors of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u268	What they are already!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u269	We agree on this last point but, under the guise of an equal merger of the two establishments, you will instead give, if the name of the future agency remains in the state, the feeling of an absorption of the ONCFS by the AFB. If you combine biodiversity and hunting, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the name of the future entity must show these two areas. Our work in committee has had at least one merit, thanks to my amendment: to make the word "hunt" appear in the text. Indeed, Minister of State, the original text had completely omitted it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u270	The word "cynegetic" appeared there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u271	A small effort, Madam rapporteur: by next night, we invite you, so that happiness is complete and shared by all, to add the word "hunt" in the text and to include it in the name of this office. Nor has our work in the Committee on Sustainable Development informed us about the governance of the future institution, which is far from being a detail. Governance will determine the strategy and policy of the future entity. They're talking about 20, 25, maybe 30 members. In any event, it emerged from our discussions that you want a limited board of directors: why not? Madam Secretary of State, we had at least one common ground: a 69-member board of directors, the total of those who came from the merger of the two old structures, was too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u273	But increase from 69 to 20 members, as proposed in the explanatory memorandum of the text, with half – half! – seats that would be returned to representatives of the State, this is not acceptable. I hope that the Members of the majority share this view. Would the policy of biodiversity protection and restoration be re-centralised? What place would the hunting world have in a structure that would be administered by 20 members, half of whom would be appointed by the Minister of State responsible for the environment? Together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we argued for a board of directors of about 43 members: just over two years ago, in 2016, that was what you thought, Minister of State, rapporteur, was the best number for the AFB Board of Directors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u274	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u275	It's an implacable logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u276	So let's stay with 43 members, ladies and gentlemen! May the State trust its territories, Minister of State, Madam Secretary of State! Let go of the ballast, the representatives of the state cannot make up half of the staff! You cannot make speeches about decentralization and trust in the territories while demanding that the state be the majority in the future structure, with people appointed by the minister of the ecological and solidarity transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u277	That's incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u278	We have also advocated amendments to ensure that parliamentarians are better represented on the board of directors. We also want the bill to strengthen the role of basin committees on the board of directors. It should be recalled that water agencies – and therefore, to some extent, basin committees – are currently the main financiers of the structures we are talking about. The board of directors must therefore be a little wider and the state must agree not to be all-powerful. We strongly fear, Madam Secretary of State – even if your state of mind is reassuring – that we will reach the final vote without the national representation having been able to get a clear idea of the governance of the future entity. You will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that it is therefore imperative that we return to the Committee on Sustainable Development to continue our work on this point. Beyond governance, it is on the status of the agents of this new office that we are still waiting for answers. How can we not take this opportunity to pay tribute here to the 1221 agents of the AFB and the 1443 agents of the ONCFS? Together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we support the request of environmental officers, who forcefully demand the status of judicial police officer. On this point, Madam Secretary of State, we have made some progress in committee, and you announced others earlier in this rostrum. But your amendments, once again, will come into discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u279	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u280	We don't know them, we haven't discussed them; We have not been able to support them, if any, nor have we offered you any improvements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u281	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u282	We must therefore go back to committee, the rapporteur, to go further on this issue and to improve the status of future agents. Finally, we come to the subject which, in our view, requires that we return to the Committee on Sustainable Development: this text is simply not financed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u283	It's the worst!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u284	This is indeed the most serious problem. At the current stage of the discussions, we have not been able to obtain any concrete answers as to the articulation of the future establishment with the water agencies. Above all, our work in committee has left a great deal of doubt about the financing of this new Office, which appears to be insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u285	You're told by the chairman of a basin committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u286	Things are clear: for 2019, we recognise it, funding exists. But they come, as hunters must know, from a levy from the working capital of the ONCFS. You have been very clear, Madam Secretary of State, and I thank you for this: after 2019, it will be missing the €31 million basket to finance the new establishment. We will discuss this during the review of the Finance Bill for 2020. Half the price of the hunting permit announced by the President of the Republic is reduced by 21 million. Moreover, as the work in committee has highlighted, in return for the payment of 5 euros per hunting permit operated by each departmental federation, the state would pay – I use the conditional – 10 euros. If the federations pay EUR 5 million, the State will have to pay 10, which in total amounts to EUR 31 million missing from 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u287	It's not a straw!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u288	Already such a sum!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u289	Yes, as you say! I hope that the water agencies will not be punctured again. What about the next few years? No funding path beyond 2019 has been presented in the Committee on Sustainable Development. I am sure that no one in this House, whether a Member of Parliament or a Minister, wants money to be spent on water agencies. However, we have the greatest fears about this, given the evil mechanism of budget preparation in Bercy – I think you share this concern, Minister of State, even if you are not well placed to admit it publicly. [[Smile]] Please, the water agencies have given, we can't puncture them again! This is another reason to return to committee – for your own good, Minister of State, Madam Secretary of State! In order for you to be supported, and with the rapporteur, you should obtain from the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic sources of funding that do not result in a drain on water agencies. I would also like to mention the hidden side of the text. We are not a priori against the bill, but we are playing our part in feeding and improving it. As he has officially announced, the President of the Republic has decided, which is his right, to divide the price of the national hunting permit by two, thus aligning it with the price of the departmental hunting permit. Don't you fear that under these conditions everyone will take the national hunting permit at the expense of the departmental permit? It would be quite logical: who can most, can least. What impact will this have on the financing of departmental hunting federations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u290	It'll be huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u291	As part of our preparatory work, we have heard the prefigurator. I asked him a very specific question, to which he answered just as precisely. He said that each departmental federation will have to set aside 5 euros per hunting permit, which will be included in an analytical account and will be allocated to a national fund, itself abounded with 10 euros per permit, in accordance with the promise of the President of the Republic. The departmental federations will have to respond to a call for projects on biodiversity. I'm not sure that the 1.3 million hunters who are members of the departmental federations have seized this martingale. You will confirm that this is the case, but, in any case, we wish to avoid this recentralisation. If the President of the Republic has promised 15 euros per hunter, let us pay this sum to the departmental federations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u292	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u293	They are large enough and responsible to implement biodiversity actions, department by department. But please, ladies and gentlemen, do not ask us to go to the annual general meeting of hunters in our department, as we all do, to explain that the departmental federation will have to respond to a call for national projects on the biodiversity of the future OFB! I don't dare think about it. Minister of State, that's what the prefigurator replied to me in committee! It's in the Official Journal and there's a video that I'll pass you through. We must therefore return to the committee so that we can be explained the link between the departmental federations and this future French Biodiversity Office. Minister of State, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to remind you that at present, almost all of the financial resources of the AFB – or 243 million euros –, a large part of the ONCFS – up to 36 million – and 63 million arrows to the national parks through the AFB, come from the fees levied on the water agencies. Taking into account the various charges carried out, which have reached their peak in the finance bill for 2018, 342 million euros of water charges are diverted to the benefit of this tool. We can't go any further, I beg you! We need to go back to committee on this point. Last subject: the deadlines envisaged for the creation of the operator seem a little short. Of course, if the law is passed, it will not be necessary to leave the officers in a state of concern, or the structures in a legal vacuum. But Parliament must also make the choice of deadlines that are credible and compatible with administrative, technical and financial developments. However, while we are still at the first reading stage, not to mention the delays caused by the parliamentary shuttle, it seems to us difficult for the new Office to be set up on 1 January 2020. Because we doubt that the new structure can be operational by that date – so much the better if you manage to meet that deadline – we will again defend amendments that postpone the application of the provisions of the bill by one year. I believe I have demonstrated that, while the two afternoon sessions and the two night sessions we have devoted to this text in committee have made progress, they have not removed all the concerns. Mr Minister of State, I sincerely believe that, on a subject like this, you need the unanimous support of Members. For our part, we are ready to participate in this unanimity, provided that we return to committee to go further. A merger that could almost be assimilated to absorption, too limited governance on which there is doubt, delays, financing, the status of agents... In addition to these issues, the need to rework on the content of future decrees and ordinances, to reflect on the name of the future structure, which deserves to take into account both biodiversity and hunting, to analyse the impact of the new amendments that we have not studied, or to clarify the relationship between the departmental federations and a "National Office for Biodiversity and Hunting". [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that all of this will convince you to vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u294	Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u295	I am very happy to acknowledge that Mr Saddier has a lot to do with the ideas, because we have already debated these issues, here at the time of the consideration of the 2019 finance bill, and in other fora, such as in Lyon last November, on the occasion of the water sittings – you were one of those who had invited me, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u296	[[At 18.20, Mr. Francis Vercamer replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u297	So it makes sense for you to come back to a number of topics. But, because you know them well, it cannot have escaped you that a number of answers have already been given. So I do not want to let those who follow our debates, either in the Chamber or outside, but who do not have all the previous episodes in mind, believe that we have not given answers. For example, we have already responded in terms of funding. Mrs Emmanuelle Wargon has done so in committee, and we will continue to do so, both during the examination of this text and during the next budgetary steps. It is clear that the creation of a new office cannot be expected to result in a leap into the unknown budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u298	It looks a bit like it anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u299	Both public institutions currently have a budget, and, of course, the future public institution will have a total budget of the same amount. In terms of governance, we cannot let it be said that we are in the most complete vagueness and that things are referred back to later when they are very well spelled out in the text, whether it is the bill introduced by the Government or the bill amended by the commission. For example, there are elements on the five colleges with details...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u300	How many members are on the board?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u301	Is that a lack of numbers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u302	We are not arched on a fetish number, not 20 or another! Emmanuelle Wargon has already indicated that this number would be specified later, we will return to it in the discussion. On the other hand, we have always said, from the very beginning of the text, that we did not want to simply add the members of the board of directors of the Agence française pour la biodiversité and of the board of directors of the Office national de la chasse et de la faunité wilde.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u303	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u304	That would be inflationary. This has sometimes been done in the past to facilitate mergers, but at some point it has to be recognised that it is too much and to start again on an effective basis. Finally, M.P., we cannot allow the words "hunting", "hunters" or "cynegetic" to be omitted from the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u305	But it's true! Like the word "water."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u306	Open it to any page, just like I do! Page 11 for example, I read "hunter" in the second line, "departmental or interdepartmental federation of hunters" in the second paragraph, and so on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u307	[[Smile]] You have selected the right page!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u308	You know perfectly well that this text has been discussed and prepared with the world of hunting, and that it is the result of a compromise with the national and departmental federations of hunters, as you yourself have indicated, Mr President, since you have mentioned the hunting permit: you know very well that the price of this permit, which is one of the elements of this compromise. If you want to defend the world of hunting, you must also defend the compromise which it has validated and whose text is also the fruit. The question of the name of the future Office is another subject. I know from experience, for having been a Member of Parliament, that there is no lack of imagination in this area, when one is a Member of Parliament. But we made the choice of using officers from both institutions. You know that those of the National Office of Hunting and Wildlife are more numerous than those of the French Agency for Biodiversity, and yet they came to that name. And since you have a lot of ideas, honourable Member, I would like to invite you to have some of them in the procedural field as well. You yourself said that the debates in committee had been very thorough, so there is no reason to go back. On the contrary, it is necessary to move forward, step after step, in the legislative procedure. A great deal of work, very rewarding for the text, has been done in committee; It is now absolutely necessary to move on to the stage of the sitting, which means that this motion for referral to committee must not be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u309	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u310	Mr Saddier, I know how pleased you are to participate in the debates in committee and I know your attendance. So I'm not surprised you wanted to go back again. Thank you, because it shows that you appreciate our common work. Having said that, it seems to me that in this case, on this bill, our work in committee has been particularly successful. We have managed to make progress on many points, and have solved a number of problems. You may have had a very fleeting lack of attention since one of the concerns you express about the need to refer the project back to committee has already been dealt with by it. I am thinking of the national file of validated hunting permits, for which you are requesting permission from the CNIL: but this file already exists! In order to refresh your memory, I read to you, as I have already done in committee, the first paragraph of Article L. 423-4 of the Environmental Code in force today: "It is made up of a central national register of permits issued, validations and permits to hunt, the management of which is entrusted to the National Federation of Hunters under the control of the National Office of Hunting and Wildlife. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u311	This provision is not effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u312	Today, information does not go back to the national level!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u313	Because the information does not go back to the ONCFS, which cannot exercise its control, the bill simply proposes – as was the case in 2005, since the file already existed! – by whom is managed the file. It's the only thing that changes, the file manager!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u314	No! There were 100 departmental files, and now there will be a national file!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u315	This file already exists: I invite you to read the environmental code. As for the name of the Office, we can have endless debates. The choice was made to follow the opinions of the first concerned, the officials of the public establishments. Whether we like this choice or not, it seems to be a good compromise. I therefore hope that we will retain that name. With regard to the number of board members, I am well placed to know that fixing a number of people amounts to creating an insoluble puzzle – I was at the manoeuvring for the composition of the board of directors of the AFB. There is a need for some flexibility, which also allows the legislator to impose a number of conditions, in terms of parity or representation of various actors, such as basin committees or overseas representatives. That is what we did in committee. Member, you are saying a lot of good on the board of directors of the AFB – I take this as a compliment – and you are worried about a form of recentralisation. However, the choice we made in committee, in connection with the Secretary of State, was to reproduce the distribution of the board of directors of the current AFB! Today, it must include a majority of state officials and qualified personalities. That's exactly what was decided for OFB. We should therefore be able to find a compromise. As far as the statutes are concerned, you are right. We have adopted an amendment in committee calling on the Government to re-evaluate the staff regulations as quickly as possible: you have found, like me on the ground, that their powers are such that this re-evaluation is deserved. With regard to funding, we have all adopted an amendment calling on the Government to submit a report on how it intends to finance water and biodiversity policies before the next finance bill is tabled. This includes, of course, the financing of OFB, but also the other measures you mentioned. As far as deadlines are concerned, I trust the prefigurator so that we can move forward. According to the evidence, we should be able to do so. For all these reasons, I will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u316	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u317	If the La France insoumée group has questions and concerns about this bill, they do not overlap with those of the Republicans, which explains why we will not vote in favour of this point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u318	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u319	I will of course not place my remarks under the aegis of the former minister, Robert Poujade. Nevertheless, during these debates we noted uncertainties on three themes – including the major one of governance – which also suggest to the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left that a return to committee would be legitimate. There is also the problem of multi-year budgetary efforts, which will be an essential condition for the future Office to deploy its missions. In addition to these financial means, we continue to question the trajectory of the qualification of the human means at its disposal. We have noted that this is a sensitive point, including for the chairman of the committee, who, in this respect, has deployed a particular energy to make it an important point, but we do not believe that we have received fully satisfactory answers at this stage. We also remain convinced that there is room for clarification of the tasks of this new national tool. I will take the example of the heads of associations, on which the committee has not sufficiently planned. Their intervention, as well as that of the associations, seems essential to me when it comes to the territorial actors involved in this policy. [[Christian Jacob and Claude de Ganay applaud]] For all these reasons, and in a spirit just as constructive as that of Mr Saddier, the GDR Group will vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u320	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u321	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u322	[[Mr. Michel Castellani applauds]] On behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I am of course still expressing some concerns about this text. The Government will have to provide responses on funding, the status of staff and the governance of the new organization in the discussions that will begin. This organism must really succeed because it would put an end to the opposition between the world of hunting and the protection of biodiversity in the years to come. Our group expects a lot of these answers. He shall not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u323	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u324	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yesterday in a group meeting, as we were preparing for today's work, I was explaining to the other Members of the House of Representatives of the Republic who were on the move what were the points on which we would surely have questions from the other groups, and I set out all the points that you mentioned, Mr Saddier. Not that I'm guessing, far from it, but because we had already spent hours and hours talking in committee about everything you just said. I would remind you that we had spent an entire night there – you were present, as well as other members of your group – and then resumed until very late. The work in committee is therefore taking place. No new evidence emerges from what you said. If some answers have not yet satisfied you, I have no doubt for a second that this will be the case in future debates because I know they will be of good quality. In any case, I repeat, it cannot be said that the work in committee has not been done and you have not raised any new issues. Our group will vote without a state of soul against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u325	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u326	This motion for referral was excellently defended by Mr Martial Saddier, whom I would like to congratulate on the quality of his work here and in committee. It is true that the latter has spent a great deal of time on these two texts, it is true that they have been debated, but these bills are not finalized. He's proven why. I would like to point out that the environment and biodiversity do not belong to any group: it is a concern that everyone, of course, shares. Martial Saddier had said from the beginning of the committee work: "In view of the stakes, it is obvious that the members of the Republican Group are committed with the idea of helping to improve the text [...]. » But it must be noted that only one of our amendments has been accepted – and this has been amended immediately afterwards. We must therefore continue to work in committee, not only on behalf of the institution, but also on the title. Do not insert the word "hunt" in it, of course, it is provocation. We are told that this has been negotiated with the hunters... But the title is not made for hunters: it is made for the sixty-six million French,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u327	That's right! Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u328	... who want to know how this new tool will manage biodiversity. We still have to talk about hunting because it will bring more than 50% of the budget and will be responsible for more than 50% of the operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u329	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u330	As far as governance is concerned, we have said that we were not in favour of summarising the boards of directors of the two institutions, that is, sixty-nine members... But, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Rapporteur, you are proposing twenty members! It can be considered that today this text has not been sufficiently completed. On the other hand, with regard to funding, I would like to point out that the AFB still had a serious budget problem in 2017 – it was necessary to give back money – and that the 2018 financial year was just over. And we're going to create a facility that we know will be missing $31 million every year to close its budget... [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group has tabled and will of course vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u331	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u332	I would also like to acknowledge Martial Saddier's outstanding work on biodiversity issues, and his expertise in hunting is beyond doubt. But he knows that parliamentarians, in 2016, called for a merger of the Agence française pour la biodiversité and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage because hunters are involved in the preservation of biodiversity and that the agents of this office have important competences in this field, knowing that their police powers and their deployment on the ground advocate for the legitimacy of the integration of ONCFS into the AFB and are all engines in the recovery of biodiversity. It is no longer time for semantic quarrels, disputes over acronyms. [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] I will take only the example of my territory, namely the great Dutch lakes: I see that, for decades, hunters have been working with environmental actors in harmony, this is going very well. We must now move forward at the national level. Let us take this opportunity of an agreement between the parties, which Parliament had so much hoped for three years ago, to give concrete expression to the creation of a powerful operator, one of whose tasks will be first and foremost the protection of nature through the creation of a genuine rural police force. For this reason, the MODEM and related groups will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u333	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u334	I listened carefully to Mr Saddier: he presented important arguments and also, from my point of view, technical, budgetary and other arguments – the title of the texts, the name of the organization – on which we are not always on the same line. With regard to governance, Madam Secretary of State and dear Barbara Pompili, I note that overseas is not represented. I say it the way I think it is. You've found an artifice that reminds us of the one used before. I was disappointed that Mr. Saddier was not talking about it at all: he spoke about the number of board members, but not about his representation. The artifice consists in designating colleges through which an ultramarine representation will be made compulsory by law. It is at the constitutionally dangerous limit because what does that mean? This means you're going to identify someone relative to their origin, their skin color... I really think that it would have been necessary, I will explain in the general discussion, to appoint an overseas representative, regardless of the level – president of the community, parliamentarian – by cross-border maritime basin. Here's the solution. Because you know perfectly well that the Caribbean basin has nothing to do with the Indian Ocean or the Pacific Ocean. You have certainly provided for a small margin compensation – I thank Mrs Pompili for her amendment – because, Madam Secretary of State, acknowledge that, when you came to committee, the text contained no reference to overseas! Not even a performance! So already thank you, but I find myself with a new model scenario law of 2016 for the recovery of biodiversity: we had to fight to get a representation while everyone recognized that 80% of biodiversity was overseas. There is therefore a real contradiction. If Mr Saddier had raised this issue, I would have followed him on behalf of my group. However, as it has kept to technical problems and other political problems, the Socialist and Related Group will not vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u335	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u336	First of all, I would like to welcome the particularly constructive work done by our colleague Martial Saddier in committee, as well as the excellence of his speech at the rostrum on particularly difficult and difficult subjects of which he has complete control. This referral to committee does not seem to the IUD, Action and Independent Group justified because, although questions remain about governance, the composition and the number of members of the board of directors, or even the financing of the institution in the medium term, they do not justify a return to committee. There are, of course, objections to several aspects of these texts. Our colleague Serge Letchimy has just mentioned the congruous portion reserved for overseas. This is all the more damaging because if the future French biodiversity office is expected to be as large, not only at the national level but also at the global level, it is because the overseas countries are part of the national territory, because 80 per cent of French biodiversity and 97 per cent of French maritime space are from overseas countries, because New Caledonia is now the second-largest biodiversity hotspot behind Madagascar; and it is for all these reasons that French biodiversity is exceptional. As the ultramarine communities bring such wealth to the national whole of which they are integral, it seems to us logical and obvious that they must have a real place in the future establishment. That is the point of view we will defend. However, our group will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u337	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u338	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 92 Number of votes cast 86 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 27 Against 59
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u339	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u340	The issue of biodiversity is acute and urgent: species disappear at a frightening rate, the countryside has become silent because of the rapid decline in the number of birds, at the rate we are going, we will run for disaster. The sixth mass extinction of living species has begun and is even accelerating. We are facing a true biological annihilation: species, especially vertebrates, are declining in both numbers and extent. According to a 2017 study, species disappearance has increased by 100 since 1900, an unprecedented rate since the extinction of dinosaurs... A CNRS study last year showed a reduction of nearly one third of the bird population in seventeen years. The causes of this catastrophe are known: it is the productivist grip of capitalism that has led man to destroy ecosystems, to disrupt fragile balances, to pollute here, to deforest there, to prevent animals from moving according to their natural migrations, which has caused hecatombes. We have destroyed, destroyed, degraded, destroyed, looted, ravaged, devastated, massacred our natural environment either to draw as much money as possible, or simply for the pleasure of killing or destroying; We have cemented the soil, razed the forests, poisoned the rivers and dumped our waste wherever we could, creating plastic mountains that pollute the soil and water. From a temperate planet where it was good to live, we are making a hell, for us and for all the other living species. Thus, this project, which creates a French Office for Biodiversity, by merging the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage and the Agence française pour la biodiversité in order to make the preservation of biodiversity and the exercise of the environmental police more readable and more effective, could be a good idea. It is high time to have a public institution that is truly capable of enforcing too timid regulations and inadequately protective laws. However, I can only note, on the part of this Government, a lack of ecological ambition that is clearly not going to be overcome by this project. In the context of austerity, the resources allocated to ecology are completely insufficient to meet the needs. However, this new facility must be the support of the large biodiversity plan announced in 2018! How, under these conditions, can we defend the general ecological interest? The budget of the Ministry of Ecology is up 0.22%: a misery, given the emergencies! As for the ONCFS, there is a budgetary stalemate because of Emmanuel Macron's gift to hunters by deciding, alone, to halve the price of the national hunting permit. At present, however, the strength of ONCFS is critical in ensuring its missions and maintaining its skills. This is a fine example of the macronian practice of power. Saving is the ultimate goal! It cannot be that of the necessary ecological transition, which is planned in the long term. I am warning today about the resources allocated to this new establishment because the merger must not be an opportunity for clear cuts in budgets that have already been well mistreated. It is planned that in 2019 thirty-nine posts will be abolished at the ONCFS. We want national pilotage and, on the ground, human resources to allow real control, since this structure will take over the environmental police for the preservation of natural environments and compliance with hunting and fishing legislation. There should also be effective monitoring of the species concerned and of the number of individuals who have been killed for each. If hunting associations wish, as they claim, to contribute to biodiversity protection actions, this project must make it mandatory to monitor all species, not just those that are subject to adaptive management. The numbers – which cannot be just the ones that hunters want to provide – must also be available to the public and associations. Control cannot be self-control or reside in the vague hope that the rules will finally be respected. This would have no more result than the demanding self-regulation of the salaries of the bosses of CAC 40, i.e. none! Control requires controllers who take the time to see what is happening and who have the means to sanction possible breaches. Monitoring missions must also be carried out rigorously to preserve biodiversity: it is on this point that the bill is becoming a matter of concern. It does indeed make the part very beautiful at the hunting lobby! If this lobby eventually accepted this merger project, it was in exchange for gifts but also for prerogatives that were previously the responsibility of the state. It is recalled that it was this subject which led to the staggering resignation of Minister Nicolas Hulot last August: he had then found at his expense that the weight of the lobbies in the public decision could exceed that of a minister of state. It would be up to the departmental federations to organize themselves among themselves in order to give the approvals to the local associations and to determine the land subject to the action of the communal hunting association. A last-minute amendment provides for the possibility of retaining a share of control. However, this departmental management risks operating a capitalist predation, since the big associations will be able to reserve the best game at the expense of the mass of hunters. As always, the rich and powerful will retain the best share for them. Such a project is dangerous and inept because the State must not divest itself of its functions. It was already serious that 200 hunters in the Oise were sworn in to "help the forces of law and order": with this text we are dealing with a new attempt to delegate to associations that have no connection with the State. The federations have their own logic and do not care about the general interest, because that is not their role. The "adaptive management" organized by the State has already led too much to legitimize aberrations. France, for example, allowed 100,000 turtledoves to be killed in 2018, against the opinion of the European Commission calling for a moratorium. The Minister is also planning to allow hunting of ash goose after January 31, as the species enters the breeding season, which violates the Birds Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u341	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u342	On behalf of adaptive management, the Government is still considering allowing the hunting of an additional 5,000 geese in February, on the pretext of agricultural damage caused in fact by another kind of goose. This new manoeuvre to privatize the state is worrying: after having emptied public institutions of their substance by abolishing posts, depriving them of powers and depriving them of any means of action, the few remaining states are eventually given to the private sector! Beautiful victory of the hunting lobby, to whom this bill grants financial compensation in passing! Admire the power of this lobby! With this text, hunter federations get public funding to have their hands free! Let's remember the power of the hunting lobby. Before I tabled mine, the minister of state, who has just left us, had himself made two bills to prohibit hunting. Do you think she'll be banned? The hunt to run, cruel and oligarchic, consists of chasing animals on horseback and using a pack of dogs until the game is exhausted, before completing it with a white weapon. The hunters do not hesitate to chase these poor animals into villages or gardens, despite the right to private property, which greatly shockes the people who come to help these terrified animals. I would point out that more than 80% of the French are in favour of banning this hunting practice, which, thanks to the hunters' lobby, continues to be allowed. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The proposed merger could have been a good idea and a good opportunity. However, at present too many questions remain about the resources allocated to this office for biodiversity and the possibility of true monitoring of hunted species. Finally, we must not give way to the lobby of hunting the prerogatives of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u343	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u344	First of all, I would like to express my astonishment at the fact that our honourable House is not pushing its agenda to meet, as the Libertés et Territoires Group has proposed, around the great national debate. This agenda appears disconnected from social reality. I remind those who look at us that the agenda of the National Assembly depends exclusively on the goodwill of the majority. At a time when I am speaking, the Commission refuses to allow us, the legitimately elected representatives of the people, to discuss the great national debate in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u345	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u346	Thus, in the midst of a social crisis, the National Assembly is debating the creation of a new public institution. As laudable and respectable as this subject is, the agenda contributes to the decredibility of our institution, which the Libertés et Territoires Group deplores. I come to the subject which brings us together, the creation of a large public institution responsible for biodiversity and hunting. At the international level, France's responsibility is major given the exceptional richness of its biodiversity, particularly ultramarine. You recalled, Madam Secretary of State, during your hearing in committee, France is home to 10% of the world's known species and is the world's second largest maritime area, 90% of which is overseas. Let us be aware of this reality! It is therefore important to recall that the protection of the environment is a major challenge for humanity: the common and universal duty to respect a collective good by preventing with impunity the use of the various categories of beings living on the basis of economic projects. Everyone can grasp, for example, the importance of the Amazon region, one of the most appreciated natural spaces in the world for its biological diversity, vital to the environmental balance of the planet. We must all feel committed to protecting the forest heritage and, wherever necessary, we must promote ambitious biodiversity programmes. In Guyana, the Gold Mountain project is a major attack on biodiversity and respect for local populations. From this rostrum, I assure you of my support for our colleague Gabriel Serville. Our individual and collective responsibility is therefore crucial. No one can deny the current collapse of environmental wealth, or that we are witnessing a major disaster for biodiversity. The Planète Vivante report recalls that 60% of vertebrates disappeared from the surface of the globe between 1970 and 2014, that 25% of the European Union's land is affected by soil erosion and that a third of the coral reefs in ultramarine France are declining. On my island, Corsica, land speculation is in full swing, with the proliferation of secondary residences, the emergence of shopping centres and the galloping artificialization of the soil. Elsewhere on the continent, projects such as the 1000-cow farm and other manifestations of intensive agriculture threaten our ecosystem and cause serious damage to biodiversity. According to Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, we do not inherit the land of our ancestors, we borrow it from our children. It is with this philosophy that the Libertés et territoires group will participate in the debate, seeking to make the future body a major player in the preservation of biodiversity. I'm getting to the bottom of the project. After two and a half years of parliamentary debates and extensive pre-figuration work leading to the law for the recovery of biodiversity in August 2016, the French Agency for Biodiversity was created on 1 January 2017. The AFB is now 1300 agents in the territory and 354 people grouped around three central sites. At the same time, and I use this word for purpose, the National Board of Hunting and Wildlife, established in 1972, brings together 1443 full-time equivalents, mainly environmental inspectors. The purpose of this project is to create a new facility between FAB and ONCFS. The name of this institution was consulted internally by the two structures, to which 2,300 of the 2,700 respondents responded. At the end of the week of consultation, the name "Office français de la biodiversité" received the maximum number of votes and was incorporated into our debates through a government amendment. We all know how the name of a structure bears its identity and reflects its mission: that is why the majority of our group will support the inclusion of the word "hunt." While we are all in favour of the creation of this institution, which will be a vehicle for appeasement and dialogue between the various actors, it is important that everyone can find themselves there. Thus, we question the dichotomy, pointed out by our colleague Descoeur in committee, between the names "Office" at the national level and "agencies" at the regional level. Our work should enable us to make this text simpler and clearer, so that the general public, local officials and elected representatives can appropriate this tool in which we all believe. Indeed, the new establishment is of interest to no less than 1.3 million hunters and 2 to 3 million French and French members of environmental associations. Our rural territories are familiar with these subjects. This text, in addition to the questions it raises on the timetable, therefore concerns a large number of our fellow citizens in the territories, particularly rural and mountain areas. We will also have to study the question of the ministry responsible for that public institution. I would like to recall that the AFB is under the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Ecology, and the ONCFS is under the joint supervision of the Ministries of Ecology and Agriculture. The Government proposes to place the new establishment under the supervision of the ministries responsible for ecology and agriculture: we oppose that the Ministry of the Interior – who has been questioned and who does not wish to exercise control over it – accompany the aforementioned ministries. On the other hand, we will support the presence of parliamentarians, particularly from overseas, and of local elected representatives on the board of directors, as it remains a real question. On the other hand, the Libertés et Territoires Group is extremely reserved, if not more so, for the financing of the new body and the transfer of EUR 500 million from water agencies. The proposed funding leads us to question both the Government's hidden will and its impact on water policy. It is indeed an ambush and dangerous mechanism, worthy of the old world that the majority of the Republic on the move continues to die, but in this particular case it perfectly embodies continuity. Similarly, we wish to obtain guarantees from the Government regarding the cost of the hunting permit. The promise of the President of the Republic seems to relate only to the national permit: the vast majority of hunters hold a departmental permit. In addition, we wish to regulate the compulsory levy envisaged on hunting permits at 5 euros. The hunters, the daily actors in the maintenance of our forests and our countryside, are also, the impact study indicates, guarantors of biodiversity. Finally, it is important to support hunters in their actions to promote safety in hunting actions: in this perspective we plead for the generalization of the wearing of fluorescent clothing. In conclusion, while the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the steps taken, it reserves its vote in view of the questions still pending. If the Government provides guarantees on financing, on the place of elected officials on the board of directors and gives a balanced place to the world of hunting, we can vote on this text. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Otherwise, we will be a majority to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u347	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u348	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and her entire team for accompanying us throughout our work, as well as the rapporteur Barbara Pompili, with whom I have been able to work closely. It has allowed all our differences to enrich each other. I think that's a good thing. Soon two hundred and ten years ago Charles Darwin was born. Beyond his great discoveries about the world of life, he left us this precious advice: "The species that survive are not the strongest, nor the smartest, species, but those that adapt best to change." On a planet where biodiversity has never been so endangered, at the heart of a society that has largely lost its connection to nature but is no less concerned about the environment, we had to listen to Darwin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u349	Would it be up to you again?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u350	Although the project was difficult, we understood this imperative need to adapt, react and evolve our administrative and legal tools to better respond to today's challenges and tomorrow's challenges. Faced with this desire to equip our country with the tools necessary to regain biodiversity, some prefer caricature, evoking a gift of 200 euros that would be made to hunters. I leave them to the rudeness of their trait and to their ignorance of the file, because I am convinced that the seed we plant today will germinate tomorrow to offer, in a climate of global warming, shade to our children. Since we borrow, as the previous speaker pointed out, the land of our children, let us make sure that this seed is properly sown in order to ensure a good lifting very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u351	[[Smile]] It's beautiful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u352	This is largely our mission in the coming hours. In my view, it is even the only ambition that should guide our work. Far from sterile media controversies and lobbies that have done their work on both sides, we now come together, alone, among ourselves, to find the best balance. That is where the beauty of parliamentary work lies! Three elements seem essential to me: fusion, adaptation and balance. Fusion, first of all: in a context where public action is being called for more efficiency and effectiveness, I am convinced that this merger between the ONCFS and ABB will be an important factor for improvement. Together in a single organization and seeing their actions better articulated, the agents will be even more effective in carrying out better defined missions. We must therefore not touch it too much in the course of our work. I welcome the Government's participatory approach to the choice of name: we need the agents concerned to quickly appropriate their new working tool. Although it is very symbolic, I am convinced that we must respect this choice. Adaptation then, and more precisely adaptive management: we will put at the service of our administration a tool that will finally get it out of the binary carcan that drove it away from the reality of nature. We are going to equip our country with a modern legal concept that allows us to interact in harmony with the reality of the ground: it is a manifest will of our majority. Adaptive, reactive, constructive, constantly evolving, it is not our current legislation that I am talking about, but simply the nature that surrounds us. It is time for our law to be inspired by the reality of the ground, not the contrary. Balancing, at last. I approach this notion through the environmental police, simply because, contrary to what many believe, we do not live in the wonderful world of Walt Disney.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u353	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u354	Nature is often harsh, and even violent, but never for free: above all, it naturally knows how to find a balance that makes the limits never exceed. Unfortunately, man has lost that sense of balance. That is why we must create this environmental policy and give it the necessary powers of action. However, I hope that with the work of awareness, knowledge, education and information that we are going to do through the OFB we will need less police in the years to come. Thus is also made the balance of nature: one decreases because the other grows. Fusion, adaptation, balance: here we touch upon fundamental notions of alchemy. [[Ms. Sandra Marsaud applauds]] That is what this is about: we must find the best alchemy between us so that this text is a success, not for us here, but for man to be able to return to this harmony with nature tomorrow. This harmony requires our ability to gather together, as well as the ability to bring together hunters and ecologists, ultramarines and the inhabitants of the metropolis, rural and urban. This gathering, nature inspires us and man destroys it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group, of which several Members rise]] If we are determined to change, we need to prove it now by stopping fighting on details by uniting for OFB and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u355	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u356	Since the motion to refer the bill to committee was not passed a few minutes ago, we will, in a few minutes, begin the discussion of the clauses of this bill, which, it is true, was expected. Are we, tonight, too optimistic in thinking that we, members of the opposition, can still be to him, by our remarks, by our reflection, by our knowledge, by our experiences, by our proposals and by our amendments, useful? In this spirit of co-construction, I would like to raise four points that lead us to question the purpose of this bill. We will have to remove the doubts and questions that he gave rise to. The first concerns the title of this new structure. Many of us have made proposals to you concerning his name, which is of importance. Refusing to include the word hunting in its title is, to the point of becoming symbolic, significant: not taking into account this element amounts to instilling doubt as to what you call a fusion between these two bodies. You will not prevent us from thinking – and asserting – that this text does not provide for a merger of these two bodies, but indeed for an absorption of the ONCFS by the AFB. My second point concerns the composition of the board of directors. There seems to be unanimity on a council with a limited number of seats, which can be a guarantee of efficiency: if we want it to be responsive, mobilised and effective, its staff must be kept at a reasonable level. At this moment, however, we do not have the precise composition of this future board of directors: therefore, we merely hope that parliamentarians, as well as all the main co-financers, will really be represented there, both by their number and by their quality. In addition to parliamentarians, we would like the representatives of the basin committees, as well as those of the agricultural and overseas sectors, to sit there, because they must be taken into account. The third point I would like to mention concerns the financing of this new structure, which is, to say the least, imprecisely addressed in Article 3. How will the financing of the actions be included in this new structure? Does this silence mark the desire to ask more and more the water agencies, as well as the new entrants, namely the hunters? In order to finance actions to protect biodiversity, you are in fact imposing on the departmental hunting federations in Article 3 a minimum expenditure obligation of 5 euros per hunter who has validated a departmental hunting permit in the year. Don't mention what seemed like a commitment: the abundance of twice the amount of the hunters' contribution... This remains very vague: admit that there are fears in this regard. The discussion that is under way must therefore also shed light on this question, which will be a hard point: either you are able to give us all the useful details on the financing of – more or less – 5 euros, or, if you do not provide us with the necessary guarantees on this subject, we will vote, as several of our colleagues propose through their amendments, against this contribution from hunters. If we do not agree with this text, we ask only to be reassured. With this in mind, we have tabled amendments which must be given particular attention by both the Government and by you, the rapporteur. Finally, this bill can only be a step: the need for coordination of biodiversity-related actions will sooner or later – and the sooner the better – lead to an examination of the real role of the National Forestry Board in our country. The NFB has several functions: it plays an important economic role in the management and valuation of wood, forests, most often public. The Office also has a key role to play in biodiversity. This one is sometimes contested because the immediate financial interest – I think, for example, the methods it applies to hunting rentals – sometimes leads to an overbidding, to the detriment of environmental logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u357	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u358	This role is also challenged by many municipalities, particularly forestry, which consider – at least I have observed in my region – that the NFB too often confuses its economic and advisory role, particularly with regard to biodiversity. This bicephalous role needs to be clarified: it is not addressed in the project. During the debates in committee, we understood that this subject was of such importance that it would take time, method and work to address all aspects of it: we therefore take note of it. As you have understood, this project deserves to be enriched in response to the legitimate and essential doubts it has raised in our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For a law to be recognized, understood, shared and defended, its objectives must be clear and transparent. At that moment, however, this is not quite the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u359	Mrs Lasserre-David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u360	Three years after the law of 8 August 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, which aimed to merge four public institutions in order to protect and value our natural wealth, we are gathered for the ultimate unification of two operators with complementary activities that could not be carried out in 2016. This merger aims to accelerate the invention of a new model, initiated by the law that you defended, the rapporteur, which aims to respond to the erosion of our biodiversity due to human activities. The environmental emergency is no longer to be demonstrated. The degradation of the biosphere has been a continuous phenomenon for centuries and the rate of extinction of species and their habitats is alarming: 50% of animal and plant species are indeed promised extinction by the end of the 21st century if we do not change our behaviour. On the list of the ten countries in the world that are home to the largest number of animal and plant species, the exceptional richness of our country's biodiversity places it at the top of European countries. On these issues, France has a particular responsibility: it is therefore in awareness that we have resolutely committed ourselves, with the recent adoption of the biodiversity plan of 4 July 2018, to the path of environmental excellence. This plan had been preceded by many texts that have enabled our country to develop in recent decades important tools to safeguard the richness and diversity of our ecosystems. I am thinking in particular of the contributions of the 1976 Act on the protection of nature, the 1993 Act on the protection and development of landscapes, not to mention the flagship measure of the Grenelle de l'Environnement, the green and blue frame, which has enabled the creation of a network of ecological continuitys, both terrestrial and aquatic. I am also thinking of the progress made through the adoption of the Green Growth Energy Transition Act. These various measures have enabled France to develop the means to succeed in the ecological and energy transition. Today we must give ourselves the means to halt the erosion of biodiversity and restore it. France's action in this area has reached a decisive stage with the adoption in 2016 of the bill for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, which enshrined in French law our objectives for the protection of the biosphere and the living and which created the French Agency for Biodiversity. It is in order to continue this dynamic that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports the objective of the bill that we are considering today, which aims at devoting the protection of our natural resources as a top priority of the quinquennium, by completing the consolidation of all the agencies of the State acting in the field of biodiversity within a single institution. The National Board for Hunting and Wildlife, the ONCFS, the main public body responsible for enforcing environmental regulations and with proven expertise in terrestrial biodiversity, can no longer remain outside this reconciliation process. It must integrate the single operator, one of whose essential tasks will be the protection of nature, through the creation of a genuine rural police force. The text thus commits a modernisation of the French institutional framework for the protection of natural areas and wildlife, through the creation of a new operator, whose name – Office français de la biodiversité or OFB – was chosen by the agents of the AFB and ONCFS. Our actions on biodiversity commit us to future generations. This is highlighted in the text, which encourages a participatory and democratic environmental dialogue. I sincerely believe that our natural heritage deserves to be better known to all in order to be more effectively safeguarded. I am therefore pleased that, in committee, the missions of the future operator have been clarified and that communication, information and public awareness have been included, so that each of us can appropriate the knowledge needed to protect our ecosystems and our biosphere. The inclusion of the French Biodiversity Office on the list of bodies whose leaders are appointed by the Head of State after hearing and opinions of the relevant parliamentary committees is another strong signal. The constitutionally protected environmental policy since 2005, it is entirely justified to involve and consult Parliament with a view to the appointment of the President of OFB. The merger of AFB and ONCFS is also welcome because the steady decline in the number of environmental police officers has caused great difficulties in some departments. There is a need for sufficient staff in the field to maintain effective controls. With the creation of OFB, 3,000 officers will be responsible for environmental policing throughout the country, ranging from protection of protected areas to the water police, and the fight against the marketing of prohibited species to sale. We have achieved some important progress on this issue. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the successful examination of the text in committee, which allowed us to have very interesting exchanges with the players in the sector. Throughout the discussions, we have tried to strike a balance between hunter federations and environmental associations, so that both sides can agree on the importance and fragility of biodiversity and act together to protect it. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement hopes that the provisions adopted in committee will be preserved in public session, in particular the extension of the expertise of the future operator to the assessment of the state of wild fauna or the establishment of a scientific council to the board of directors of the future agency, which will enable scientific advice and technical support to be given to the development, implementation and evaluation of policies carried out by the State, local and regional authorities and their groups. I also welcome the adoption of the amendment by our colleague Bruno Millienne, aimed at reintroducing for the regions the possibility of creating regional biodiversity agencies in conjunction with the new national public institution responsible for biodiversity, thereby ensuring the stability of existing structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u361	It already existed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u362	Finally, greater representation of ultramarine territories in governance bodies was desirable, as was the consideration of global warming. For the public debate, my group has tabled few amendments, because most of our requests have been taken into account when considering the text in committee. However, we would ask that the missions of the French Biodiversity Office be clarified on two points: on the one hand, the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and its sustainable development objectives, which present a profoundly innovative conception of the 2030 Agenda; on the other hand, the restoration of biodiversity, as well as the organisation and coordination of natural areas. I will conclude by pointing out that the bill introduces a new action: adaptive management of species, that is, the possibility of adjusting the harvests of certain wildlife species to the conservation status of their populations. This management requires the mobilization of actors, environmental associations and hunters, in contact with species populations in order to be able to collect the data. The federations of hunters have already practiced adaptive management for a very long time. I salute their daily work. Article 3 of the draft provides for an obligation to transmit data on the collection of specimens of species subject to adaptive management to the departmental federations of hunters. We believe it is important that the decree, which will set out the modalities for the implementation of the article, provides for the dematerialization of the data. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I support the Group of the Democratic Movement and related to this bill. It provides for the establishment of a large biodiversity operator, whose genesis has been long, but which is now the subject of a broad consensus. Like ADEME, the Agence de l'Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l'Energie, in the field of the energy and ecological transition, the French Biodiversity Office will become the driving force behind the national strategy for biodiversity and the protection of our wildlife.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u363	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u364	If the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this text, I would nevertheless like to tell you frankly: you are coming empty-handed in terms of governance and overseas, while 80% of French biodiversity is overseas. Of course, thanks to you, Mrs Pompili, amendments have been tabled; You fought and you managed to register something. However, the result is hybrid and, from my point of view, does not hold the road. For us, however, this question is a matter of hope; It is a societal issue, an ethical issue, an issue of nature, progress, history, an issue of resilience of the overseas peoples in each basin, in relation to the realities of nature. In addition, we come from three to four centuries out of a horrible story. We need sectors and development poles. It seems to me that you would take away this possibility if you did not go to the end of your reasoning. That's why I'll be direct. I say it as I think it is – and I regret that Mr de Rugy is not here: it is absolutely necessary for the Government to submit an amendment aimed at creating a college specific to the overseas territories and departments. What are you going to do? In your text, which is very simple, you plan several colleges and write: "The board of directors is composed in such a way as to include at least one overseas representative in the first and at least one overseas representative in the second or third college". So you practice positive discrimination. You're gonna make an ethnic choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u365	It's the same with regard to parity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u366	But on what basis are you going to make this choice? Should I be considered an overseas parliamentarian? There's a real problem here, I'd rather tell you. How will you do it? It's almost insulting to our colleagues! That doesn't make any sense! Representation by cross-border marine basin is required. Our colleague has just mentioned the possibility of setting up regional biodiversity agencies, but this possibility already existed, as a result of the adoption of an amendment I had tabled to that effect. You need to be aware that you are creating a global mechanism, which falls under the Nagoya Protocol, the Rio Declaration and COP21, for all matters relating to nature, ecology and development. The stakes are considerable! Formerly colonised countries, countries of sugar and cane, need to build sectors of economic development, linked to their resilience. You do not give them the opportunity to do so. While it is not their presence on a board of directors that will solve everything, at least this would make it possible to establish a link between identifying the problem and protecting and valuing biodiversity. This could lead to country-specific development axes in a differentiated manner. Think of Polynesia and its nearly 120 islands, with their polymetallic nodules. Think of corals: France is on the front line. Think of the extraordinary wealth of France which is its maritime power; 97% of France's sea surface, or 10 million square kilometres, is in the overseas region. Think it contains 80% of French biodiversity. Think that out of 25 biodiversity hotspots around the world, four are located in the overseas. Think of Guyana's considerable ecological power. If you do not introduce an amendment to that effect, you will break a momentum, you will "kill" something. That's why I urge you to do it. I think that on all benches we would accept a provision of this order that would make it possible for us to get out of it. I wanted to focus on this point. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] I think that France is taking an extremely important action for the future of the planet. I consider that, in this area, France has innovated, from the Grenelles to the biodiversity policies. And we, too, need recognition. For the overseas countries, a considerable step forward would be the recognition of their biological wealth and, above all, of the ecological services we provide to the entire planet. On the day these services are evaluated, we may be less dependent, while being worthy in the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u367	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u368	Thanks to its ultramarine territories, France is home to 10% of the world's known species and has, as my colleague Letchimy has just pointed out, the second largest maritime area in the world, with more than 11 million square kilometres. This diversity of environments and ecosystems, this vast maritime space, is an exceptional asset for our country. This natural capital also gives us a great responsibility to future generations, as the preservation of biodiversity is the great challenge of our century. More than two years after the adoption of the "Biodiversity" law of August 8, 2016, the bill that we are considering aims to bring together the two major operators of the State, the Agence française de la biodiversité and the Office national de la chassure et de la faune sauvage. Recall that in 2016, the initial intention of the Biodiversity Act to create a large agency could not succeed. The present text implements this objective, with a view to increasing the effectiveness of water and biodiversity policies and strengthening environmental policing in the field. If the merger between AFB and ONCFS is desirable, it cannot be limited to the integration of one operator into another. It must have a new ambition, commensurate with the challenge of preserving biodiversity. While some improvements have been made to the text, we still feel it necessary to include a number of safeguards in the law. With regard to the number of members of the Board of Directors, for example, the text does not set any limits – several colleagues have already mentioned it. To tighten the board around 20 members would be far too restrictive in view of the current composition of the merged bodies. In committee, the definition of the institution's powers and scope of action were clarified. That was necessary, even if we consider that police missions should be placed not first, but in the last position. The future French Biodiversity Office is not intended to be a public security agency; First and foremost, it must contribute to the preservation of French biodiversity and to research in this field. The Commission also clarified the institution's relationship with the communities. In particular, it provided for the possibility for the Agency to carry out, within the framework of conventions, actions in Saint-Barthélémy, Wallis and Futuna, French Polynesia and New Caledonia, at the request of these communities. That clarification was essential. I am surprised, however, that our colleague Letchimy has spoken in this sense with talent, of the low position reserved for overseas in this future structure – we can even speak of a strapontin that you had to pull out with your teeth. In fact, you did not give more room to the overseas in your speech, Madam Secretary of State: three lines...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u369	This is a trial of intent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u370	Should I recall that 80% of the biodiversity is found in the overseas communities and that they account for 97% of the French maritime space? Should I recall that New Caledonia alone is considered the second hotspot on the planet in terms of biodiversity, behind Madagascar, out of the forty-three identified? Do I have to remind you, as far as this archipelago is concerned, that the level of endemism of plant species is 76%, which gives us the third largest in the world after Hawaii and New Zealand? Do I have to remind you that in the area of coral reefs France is the fourth largest power in the world – thanks, I insist, to its overseas communities – and that 75% of the French reefs are Caledonian and that their remarkable parts have been inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage Site? It is therefore surprising, once these elements have been recalled, that the original text did not contain any reference to the overseas communities, none! It's amazing. How can we explain that at the end of such a work, carried out for so long and with so many actors, these territories were completely absent from the original text? It's a total heresy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u371	It's not heresy, it's a state of mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u372	This, even though a job had been, I repeat, carried out for a long time and when it had borne fruit, in 2016, when the majority was not the same but the officials were in the same positions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u373	It's normal...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u374	... even then, finally, that the one who would become President of the Republic, during the 2017 election campaign, had undertaken to have an international conference on biodiversity organised during his term in the territory of one of the ultramarine communities. In other words, it has made the connection between French biodiversity and ultramarine communities. Colleagues, as you have understood, we expect this public discussion to provide clarification and guarantees. France cannot create a French Biodiversity Office by forgetting to represent, instead of being due to them, these ultramarine communities that allow French biodiversity to be exceptional. This gives France, in particular, an international responsibility in this field. With this important reservation, the UDI-Agir and Independents Group will vote for these two texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u375	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u376	We do not speak, we do not act, in terms of biodiversity, under the same conditions depending on whether inequalities are pronounced – as is the case today – or whether the situation is characterized by equity and development. It is valid on a global scale as for metropolitan and overseas France. This entry into the field may also be linked to the anthropocene sequence whereby man weighs on biodiversity since the industrial revolution, but this explanation is truncated because it is indeed the system of liberal production and exchange that leads at risk both a large part of the population as about a hundred species of flora and fauna on a global scale. It is within this liberal framework that you place your action and we are looking at this biodiversity management and recovery project. However, since we are pragmatic, we will contribute to the discussion. The figures have been given and the French authorities bear a heavy responsibility. Yes, let's intervene for La Réunion wool fern, for the white coral of Parc des Calanques, for the glass frog of Guyana or for the variable hare of Mercantour, which appears on the summary of the January agenda of the Agence française de la biodiversité, the AFB, not to mention the common solanum or the elegant cardonneret of our urban gardens. The alert has been launched for years, notably through the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity, but the situation continues to deteriorate, to the point that some ecosystems are at the limit of total erasure. Yes, we must therefore go faster, further, stronger, and we can only welcome the creation of a French biodiversity office that would bring together the major operators in this sector. The Communist MPs of the GDR group had defended this proposal as soon as the bill for the recovery of biodiversity, nature and landscapes was considered in 2016. It is a guarantee of efficiency, under the leadership of the State, with the networking of expertise and coherent actions of all partners. It is also the crucible of a common culture. We are also very sensitive to the strengthening of the administrative and judicial police powers of the future body. However, our questions remain. What guarantees do we have of the operational effectiveness of such a tool if the means do not change or little? The missions planned are indeed very numerous, strategic and, already, the question of funding is very much an issue for us, in particular that of water agencies. The means are also those women and men who intervene on the ground and are targeted, like all others, by the reduction in the number of state officials you have in perspective with CAP22. Two reports are provided for in the text according to a regrettable timetable. I do not go back to governance: our colleague Serville will do the bulk of his speech. Finally, what is the weight of the OFB in a context where other public policies contradict the essential objectives assigned to it: a policy of spatial planning, metropolisation, a policy of mobility and infrastructure of the "all road" which contribute to the acceleration of the artificialisation of the soil, the segmentation of the spaces, but which are also two major causes of the loss of biodiversity; An agricultural policy that is increasingly infused with the free trade treaty that weakens people, territories, landscapes, water resources – in short, the least-so-called environmental. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] That is our position at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u377	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u378	What a motivating and dreamed but unexpected prospect a few months ago, following the failure, during the examination of the bill for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, to bring the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage, ONCFS, within the Agence française de la biodiversité, AFB. Now we're finally there. AFB and ONCFS invite us to dedicate a marriage that we hope will be happy and fruitful. I am pleased that common sense has finally triumphed. The present text, although we have understood that it should remain sober and focused on its purpose, with the assurance that its provisions will be detailed by decree and by ordinances, must, on the one hand, ensure that the tasks and powers assigned to the AFB by the law of 2016 will be well renewed and reaffirmed, on the other hand, to organise a real strengthening of the police prerogatives, to announce the birth of a rural police force, and to increase in efficiency from the point of view of the effectiveness of judicial proceedings and criminal sanctions. In addition to the convergence of human resources, this merger within a new establishment will take place around the reorganization and optimisation of environmental policies and particular attention will have to be paid to the support of staff in this change. With regard to police and judicial police missions in particular, the merger was the occasion for the affirmation of a police force that assumed regal functions, with the same treatment throughout the country. From the point of view of territorial anchoring, it is a question of moving from rural police to rural police. The text as we propose to enrich it is the guarantee of a real simplification of the exercise and the delays in the application of the procedures; it will therefore lead to greater efficiency and a better rate of prosecution of detected infringements. The amendments proposed to you are therefore intended to give environmental inspectors the opportunity to carry out their judicial police mission effectively in the fight against poaching, bio-piracy and trafficking in protected or endangered species. These rare species are more than ever subject to the appetite of an increasingly lucrative illegal trade, which mobilizes means and technologies accordingly. With regard to the governance of the new institution, a tight board of directors with sober representation and integration of overseas communities is in my view necessary for an effective and representative functioning of the institution's issues. You understand this: the ambition of the bill is to strengthen water and biodiversity policies through better knowledge, monitoring and protection of species; It is also to be as close as possible to territorial needs. The proposed merger, leading to the birth of a new public establishment which we call for, must, beyond the affirmation of the means to be mobilised, also be an opportunity to take a necessary and salutary step back on the very philosophy of our public policy of conservation and management of wildlife. This must be an opportunity to rethink the purpose of our action. Indeed, the very nature of living is to be evolutionary – the law on the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes has, moreover, enshrined a dynamic conception of it. Because the living is in perpetual movement and perpetual transformation, it is therefore not a fixed conception of biodiversity, but a long-term forward-looking and regulatory strategy. The ideal would be to be able to rely on natural self-regulation, but unfortunately, we are moving away from the fact that in the past we have decimated natural predators, or the acclimatization of alien invasive species – now favored by human activities – without natural predators, in a context that facilitates global warming. We therefore have a responsible role to play today. The text had to define a philosophy and provide the public authority with adequate and sufficient resources, and that would be the case. I am convinced that it also formalizes a marriage of reason, inescapable and desirable, between two families that we have too long and vainly opposed, but that it also brings together true passions, I think of the personnel, and that it will be fruitful, that it will be born a true common culture of apprehension, reconquest and effective management of water and biodiversity. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote on this bill, which, drawing on the contours of the structure, the missions and means of a new consolidated public institution, lays the long-term foundations for optimizing our public policy in favour of the recovery of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u379	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u380	Before I get to the heart of the matter, let me point out to you that it is curious that a great national debate is organised everywhere in France and not here in the Assembly – that of the representatives of the citizens. This mismatch between our agenda and the country's state of economic and social emergency calls on me in the same way as our fellow Corsican colleague Colombani. I, for my part, would have preferred to speak today in this forum to defend, for example, a zero-per-cent VAT rate on basic necessities or the reindexing of pensions to the cost of living.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u381	It's Fillon's program!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u382	I will do so on other occasions, because it seems to me to be in line with the contemporary expectations of the French on purchasing power. But as the poet said, if we do not invest in the long term, there is no short term. So, to the legitimate alarms of our fellow citizens, let us together push that of biodiversity! Let us hear the SOS launched by nature: the silence of the birds, which disappear from our cities even if their singing is still well present in our countryside, that of the bees, those markers and bearers of life on earth, and the disappearance of plant and animal species, like the elephant, beautifully painted by Chamard. The elephant, symbol of wisdom, has become the sad expression of man's madness. At the outset, Madam Secretary of State, we must put the debate on biodiversity and bring the word of life to the global level, not to mention the tremendous reservoir that the overseas represents. Of course, nothing should exempt us from our efforts. It is indeed up to us to be, individually and collectively, the change we want for the world. But our action must also take place internationally and be translated into all parts of our diplomacy – this has been little stressed, and I wanted to do so. Because my remarks must be complementary to those of my fellow Members Martial Saddier, Jean-Marie Sermier and Gérard Menuel, I would like to focus here on the small stories that make the big picture and take the opportunity of this forum to talk about the workers of the shadows, who contribute to preserving biodiversity and of which we talk little or not enough. These consumers, first of all, who invest in zero-waste grocery stores, turning their backs in the 20th century, which saw the emergence of a continent of plastic in the oceans. These investors and researchers, who rely on new energies or on certain plants that are champions of clean-up. These farmers, who contribute to the diversity of landscapes. These herders, who maintain, for example, the wetlands in the mountain, are ardècheous. These castane farmers, which support the animal and plant biodiversity of open environments, the traditional chestnut grove. These men and women, who make the choice of bio, reasoned agriculture and high environmental value – HVE. How, in this week's release of a famous red guide, do not evoke the restaurateurs? We find biodiversity in our plates and glasses, an integral part of our gastronomy and identity. I want to talk to you about the daily life of these farmers, these foresters, these fishermen, hunters, hikers, who know the joys of the number one tool of access to biodiversity in our countryside: the deboussailleur, intended to keep the environments accessible and the paths open. It's not theory, it's elbow oil!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u383	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u384	Since time is running out, I'll end up with the actors in the water. Their role is paramount in the ecological quality of aquatic environments, in the management of biodiversity and in the financing of this new office. We will have the opportunity to come back to this when we defend our amendments, recalling two principles of common sense: water pays water – unfortunately, the 2018 finance law has undermined this principle –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u385	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u386	...and who pays, decides. This last principle refers to the question of governance, which is very well raised by my colleague Martial Saddier. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you will have understood, far from the environmental disaster, I believe that man is, as often, both the problem and the solution. I hope that, in our discussions, we can activate and step up its mobilization for biodiversity and recall that it is also sometimes, in our territories, a species to be protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u387	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u388	This evening we are considering an important bill, which is part of the continuity of the work carried out in recent years by Barbara Pompili, Ségolène Royal and, more generally, the previous majority. For Socialist and related MEPs, the essential thing, which I believe is a shared desire by all those involved in the protection of the environment, is to preserve the gains achieved after a very long work, carried out in the framework of the drafting of the law of 8 August 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. The text before us is useful because it reinforces the missions of an institution that plays a major role in the protection and restoration of water resources and biodiversity, which the previous majority wanted to create in 2016. I do not hesitate to say this tonight: this bill is a new step towards a greater investment in the necessary protection of our biodiversity, as we become aware, every day a little more, of the ecological urgency. This project has a second interest: it aims to establish different actors in the protection of biodiversity around the same table. Of course, hunters have an essential role to play in protecting the environment, as they do on a daily basis, as has been pointed out earlier, fishermen, who, in all territories, are indispensable actors in the regulation of biodiversity. But your text, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, also presents areas of shadow, which I hope will be dispelled by the debate: firstly, on the governance of this new French Biodiversity Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u389	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u390	As we understand it, one of the objectives of this bill is to optimize, to use the word used in committee, the governance of biodiversity. Madam rapporteur, I thank you for providing the necessary clarifications for an insufficient initial text on this point. You have agreed to point out, on the initiative of the Socialist Members and Members of Parliament of all trends, that the board of directors of the future establishment should be joint and composed of parliamentarians – this is a positive point, except that you have not wanted to give a special place to the representatives of the Overseas Territories, which nevertheless harbour 80% of our biodiversity. I strongly subscribe to the words that Serge Letchimy has just made, who knows these issues well and reminds us of this essential point: the biodiversity of the overseas territories is unique and extraordinary. It is our heritage, our culture and our humanity, because it represents our connection with nature. With 3,450 plant species and 380 animals unique in the world, the overseas territories are home to more endemic species than all continental Europe; Thus, fourteen of the seventeen French ecoregions are ultramarine. In 2016, you were in charge, the rapporteur, and the Government entrusted a mission to two ultramarine deputies, Messrs. Serge Letchimy and Victorin Lurel, so that they can bring forward proposals from the experience of the field players to enrich the text on the recovery of biodiversity. This work was brilliantly carried out, and our colleagues had obtained a fair representation of their territories in the AFB. In our amendments, we will propose to preserve it, because, essential, it represents a piece of France. Another shadow zone relates to the resources allocated to the new establishment. The text, Madam Secretary of State, lacks clarity and precision on this point. In conclusion, I want to say that this text is in the right direction. We trust the rapporteur, who is continuing the work she has begun. But the Government must build on its ambitions. I will only have one formula to finish my remarks: "Another effort, Madam Secretary of State! » [[Smile.(Applause from a few benches of the LaREM Group)]] The applause is unfed! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u391	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u392	For the IDU, Act and Independent Group, this text is in the right direction. He continues the work, begun a few years ago, aimed at merging all the institutions concerned with the topic. This company is now succeeding, with the creation of OFB. We therefore agree with the principle of merger. This should make it possible to optimize the means, by coordinating them more closely. It is important that you guarantee us that the agency will not lose its network spirit, to which we are very attached. In this regard, I would like to commend all the forerunners I have met during these years, as well as all the members of the Board of Directors, who have tried to work together. As was said earlier, it was not obvious to involve all the players around the table – associations, farmers, fishermen and, soon, hunters. These actors, who are the first to protect the environment, should not be opposed, since the environment often makes them live. Sustainability of the environment will sustain their activities, and they can be at the heart of the mission of protecting all land and sea areas. At a time when our democratic systems are being called into question and when we are wondering how to co-build with civil society – I would even go further by talking about co-decision – I am convinced that the model of the FBA and the future OFB is unique and unprecedented. Its emergence has not been obvious and represents a challenge, which, in my view, has been met. It is with this in mind that I will make some substantive comments on the text presented to us today. In fact, we will be presenting amendments to enrich it. First of all, the merger must not lead to the abolition of missions. The original bill, by synthesizing it to make the text more readable, no longer offered the guarantee that certain essential tasks would continue to be fulfilled. Together with the chairman of the committee, rapporteur of this text, we have re-established some essential clarifications in our view. I will propose two additions designed to strengthen our action to protect coastlines and coral areas. France needs to better integrate this parameter: we have the second largest maritime area in the world and we are one of the countries with the longest coastlines. And yet, quite often, this wealth is forgotten: perhaps not the littorals, because almost half of the population of our country lives in coastal areas, but the oceans are completely neglected, Madam Secretary of State. I come out of the hearing of the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, François de Rugy, who, before the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, raised these issues. Knowing that 97% of maritime space is overseas is very important to us. We must integrate this fact, particularly in the missions of OFB: France has the second largest maritime area in the world. One of our amendments is that OFB will be able to support the management of these spaces. My second point, which all my colleagues have had to recall, concerns the guarantee of an enhanced presence of representatives of the Overseas Territories on the Board of Directors. I confess that we were very afraid to read your text, Madam Secretary of State, but I would like to thank you and our rapporteur, because you have shown openness. The overseas is not unique, there are overseas. It is therefore necessary to ensure the presence on the board of directors of the future Office of at least one representative per ocean. That would be the least of all. Many amendments to this effect have been tabled. They seem relevant to me. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM Group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] I will have the opportunity to come back to these issues during the discussion of the articles. In any case, our group will support the bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u393	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u394	I will not go through four paths: I am very disappointed – very disappointed. And I know this disappointment shared by all our colleagues, elected from overseas as well as from hexagonal France. How can it be otherwise, in the light of the ease with which the two bills swept months of fierce struggle by ultramarine elected officials for the just and dignified representation of our territories in the governance of biodiversity? Would this government have already forgotten that overseas accounts for 80% of our biodiversity? Guyana alone is home to half of the national natural heritage. It's very simple, there are more plant and animal species in a square kilometer of Guyana than there are in all hexagonal France. Colleagues, I insist. The Amazonian park of Guyana covers an area equivalent to three times that of the department of Gironde, which is the largest in metropolitan France. To give you an order of magnitude, together with the neighbouring national park of the Tumucumaque Mountains, it constitutes the largest protected tropical area in the world, of an area equivalent to that of Portugal. It is very simple, the natural protected areas of Guyana represent five times the surface of the Île-de-France and the forest of Guyana covers an area equivalent to that of Austria! So what a camouflage! The merger of AFB and ONCFS is a pretext to make us disappear from the governance bodies of the new French Biodiversity Office. However, I would like to thank those of our colleagues whose vigilance has enabled – with your support, the rapporteur – to save the furniture in committee. How did we get there, even as our fellow citizens cry out for contempt and "invisibility" in the decision-making bodies that concern them in the first place? I feel like I'm reliving this day of 26 March 2014, when the Government introduced its biodiversity recovery bill, which dispossessed our right to vote in the new governance of the city. For two years, we fought, in a spirit of concord beyond partisan logic, so that our territories would no longer be relegated to the rank of spectators but would be actors of their common destiny. And we did it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u395	And the mountain followed you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u396	More or less!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u397	Together, at the cost of lengthy debates, meetings, committee meetings and battles of arguments, we have managed to ensure that overseasers are rightly and dignifiedly represented in this governance. Thus, the law of 9 August 2016 for the recovery of biodiversity provides that everyone – I say "each" – of the five ultramarine ecosystem basins must be represented on the board of directors of the ABB. It also provides for an obligation to represent overseas workers in at least three of its five colleges, as well as a significant representation of overseas workers on the Agency's scientific council and a guidance board bringing together the parties concerned with ultramarine biodiversity. All this seems to have simply disappeared from the present reform. Madam Secretary of State, with these two texts, you sweep these battles, you sweep these victories and, more importantly, you sweep the overseas. So here we are back in 2014! Would it be the return of contempt for our territories? Or a return to jacobinism disguised by imperatives of efficiency? If I did not know you, Madam Secretary of State, the rapporteur, I could have thought that this was a return to neocolonialism, which still has a hard tooth! Madam rapporteur, you were with us in this battle, which you accompanied in your responsibilities as Secretary of State for Biodiversity. I can therefore count on your commitment to accompany our amendments, which only ask for one thing: to preserve the fair and equitable governance resulting from the provisions of the law of 8 August 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u398	All right! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u399	The Minister of State, too, was in this two-year fight. I want to believe that he is driven by the will not to undo what we have obtained. I therefore solemnly invite our colleagues, on all benches, to join us in order to restore what is right, normal and legitimate. In advance, I would like to thank those who will respond to this call.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u400	You can count on us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u401	The mountain will answer now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u402	Finally, I have no doubt that the French Biodiversity Office will be keen to seize not only the Montagne d'Or project, but also the problem of illegal orpainting, which continues to bruise and impoverish our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u403	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u404	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The Minister of State referred earlier to the need to be pragmatic. Please be aware, Madam Secretary of State, that our amendments are, in particular those concerning the governance of the future office and the repeal of the provisions of Article 83 of the law on real equality for overseas workers concerning the issue of hunting permits in Guyana. In advance, I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u405	Mrs. Nathalie Sarles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u406	As part of this general discussion, which I am about to conclude, many speakers have recalled that both texts are part of the continuity of the law for the recovery of biodiversity, voted in 2016. During the examination of this text, political divisions were overcome on many subjects. Presented by our committee chair – whom I greet –, then a member of the Government, he enshrined the principle of ecological solidarity. This was an essential step in French environmental policy. This principle recognizes the importance of the links between biodiversity conservation and human activities. It ensures that complex issues of direct and indirect interactions and effects are taken into account in decisions. It also includes territories. The texts that we are going to discuss are consoling him. Strengthening the state's presence in rural areas means improving the balance of use-sharing, ensuring better compliance with environmental standards and, above all, making policies for the protection and restoration of environments, water resources and biodiversity coherent. The French Biodiversity Agency has been a strong response to the challenges of biodiversity loss and adaptation to the effects of climate change. In order to improve the readability, coherence and effectiveness of public action in biodiversity conservation, a central operator and institutional reference were needed. A unique tool of expertise and pilotage, however, it lacked a fundamental dimension, due to lack of consensus. We can congratulate ourselves on having managed to give it to him, through dialogue, listening and respect for everyone, a little more than two years after his creation. Here we are completely in the sense of history. While the mission of ONCFS in 1972 was to manage the cynegetic activity, its role has continued to evolve. Currently, he is responsible for nature policing, habitat and wildlife expertise, and public policy support. Its rapprochement with the merged organizations within the ABB took place smoothly. It is natural to pursue him. By merging the AFB and the ONCFS, we are truly creating the office that will enable the principle of solidarity to be implemented. We will stop opposing the preservation of biodiversity and human activities. The expertise of both organizations is recognized and complementary. This will strengthen environmental policing, prevention and controls. Our political will is clear. The protection of the environment and biodiversity is a common matter. Nature is our common good. Let's get out of the past. Let's get all the actors moving together! We will only be more effective and grow from it. As a local elected representative, I have often brought together representatives of hunters and representatives of environmental organisations dedicated to the defense of biodiversity. Around the table, consensus has always emerged. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, these are not texts for or against hunting, which, moreover, would make no sense. While some – here and elsewhere – would like to make us look like an urban majority, disconnected from the rural world, we are on the contrary, alongside the Government, fully aware of rural issues. The two texts before us attest to this. As you know, our group is committed to consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u407	That's not true! You're not listening to the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u408	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] He's attached to pragmatism. Here's a good example! However, we must evolve quickly and be effective, because our nature suffers. That, Madam Secretary of State, the rapporteur, is what I wanted to say on behalf of our group. He is committed, by your side, to defending both texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u409	The joint general discussion is closed. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-23-O1124.u410	Next sitting, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the draft law establishing the French Biodiversity Office, amending the missions of the hunters' federations and strengthening the environmental police; Further to the discussion of the draft organic law amending the Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of article 13 of the Constitution. The meeting is adjourned.
