ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u1	I should like to inform the National Assembly that the President has taken note, pursuant to Rule OL. 176 of the Electoral Code, the cessation, on April 27, 2019 at midnight, of the term of office of Member of Parliament for Ms.Elise Fajgeles and Ms.Delphine O, and the resumption of the exercise of the mandate of MM. Benjamin Griveaux and Mounir Mahjoubi, whose government functions ended on March 27, 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u2	The next item is the debate on the Government's industrial policy: neither defensive nor offensive. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. In a second stage, we will carry out a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u3	It is for me to break the paschal truce: perhaps that is why the tone of my intervention will not be controversial, at least on purpose, and that it is intended to be constructive. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, I would like to ask you about your vision of industry by avoiding any bad quarrel based on the comparison of the policy that you have been conducting for almost two years with that of previous governments, and I am of course thinking of the majority that I have belonged to, or other countries. A priori, I consider that you are in a form of continuity with the past, even if criticisms can be made of your mobilisation towards a particular industrial apparatus. My colleagues Alain David, elected in Gironde, and Régis Juanico, elected in the Loire, will bring up concrete cases and may ask for the Government or possibly blame it. In the same way, despite your decline in the amortization of business investment, which we attached great importance to, which could explain a form of industrial employment recovery in 2017, we consider that you are rather in the continuity of the previous policy. It seems to me that today we are in an endless race. If the modernisation of our industry is to bring us in line with international standards, it is a race that the European continent, the European Union and France could lose. We are therefore both asked to adapt constantly, to preserve assets in the crazy race of the world competition, and invited to reflect on new rules, to think of a new economy. That is what I would like to do in this speech. I therefore ask you about five paths that can be opened up for this new European economy, which is conducive to the construction of a solid and solidarity-based ecosystem, favourable to the development of our industry. The first point concerns access to raw materials and secondary raw materials. I know that you are concerned about it and I would like to get some concrete answers. The European Union is particularly vulnerable by its dependence, particularly on minerals. It is subject to ongoing competition aggravated by price volatility, including for secondary raw materials. What protective measures or agreements would guarantee the long-term supply of our industries? Then I think about international trade. The left, in its diversity, advocates for a new generation of international treaties, which incorporate the issue of carbon footprint and respect for human rights. Our colleague, Édouard Martin, a Member of the European Parliament from our majority, who has completed his term of office, had succeeded, with nearly 100 colleagues, in defeating the recognition of China as a market economy. What is your position on this subject? On what basis could new international treaties be drawn up that would give our industry a genuine competitiveness by taking into account both the carbon footprint of the business, respect for human rights and fair trade? We are also faced with this dilemma that the formation of European industrial giants is prevented by European rules aimed at avoiding the establishment of monopolies. You know the example of Saint-Gobain, whose "pipelines" activity at Pont-à-Mousson, must open up to new capital. We are in a totally upuesque situation, as has been demonstrated in a masterful way by the European decision on the merger between Siemens and Alstom. It is a bit absurd to prevent Europeans from creating industrial giants while the fragility of their industry makes them dependent on other powers. We risk losing the game. Madam Secretary of State, what reforms are you planning to change the situation? I would also like to ask you about the changes in industrial trades. For example, some pesticides, which you know well, which are banned in the European Union, continue to be exported. They are produced in units that sometimes employ tens of thousands of people. These units will have to evolve, either to comply with international standards that are progressing, or, more deeply, to be part of the new ecological transition. How to accompany people, how to attract human resources to new industries? Finally, on the left, by proposing codetermination, tax transparency between parent companies and subsidiaries, or a new accounting system, we had designed a new company, more rooted in ethical rules that also ensure its sustainability and a long-term shareholding. We again plead for a capitalism with a human dimension, a capitalism which is not absent from the world but which is based on ethical foundations specific to what we call a European morality, which considers nature and others with respect and in duration. By drawing on the case of Saint-Gobain, which could lead us to lose global leadership in the provision of drinking water through ductile cast iron pipes in the name of purely speculative and short-term reasons, I would like to know your opinion on what a new European capitalism of the 21st century could be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u4	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u5	In response to a request from our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group, this afternoon we have asked ourselves about our country's industrial policy. Our economic model no longer produces enough wealth to finance our social model. To restore purchasing power, we need to recreate growth and rediscover the sense of sustainable economic activity in our territories. The French industry has unfortunately been on the decline for many years, to the point that France has become the country of Europe where the share of industry in GDP is lowest. The Government has therefore proposed a new industrial policy and has set up a new National Industry Council with the aim of turning this policy towards innovation and upscaling. In his address to the Council on 20 November 2017, the Prime Minister stressed several points. First, the launch of an industry and innovation fund, operational at the beginning of 2018, with €10 billion to help break-up innovation. Then the strengthening of the channels, with an audit of the strategic sector committees and a mapping of the sectors, each with a roadmap. By focusing on the defence of an industrial Europe, Édouard Philippe said, "We must work together on issues such as foreign investment control, trade reciprocity, and the creation of European champions" and referred to the development of new industrial sectors at European level. He indicated, however, that the state would not hesitate to "take up the niche in the event of a threat from OPA against French champions" in different sectors, "including for example agri-food or cosmetics". The Prime Minister also stressed the role of French Fab, launched on 2 October 2017, and announced the appointment of an interdepartmental delegate for restructuring. However, after these beautiful announcements, vigilance is required. Thus, while the Territory of Industry program, launched in November 2018, was expected to benefit 136 territories for €1.3 billion, few protocols have been signed to date. Month after month, the announcements of various company restructurings in very different sectors do not suggest an improvement in the situation. For example, the territory of Belfort, which I have the honour to represent, suffers both the inability of the Union to assert itself as a power – which is illustrated by its inability to support the fusion project between Alstom and Siemens – and General Electric's denial of new jobs, despite the existence of agreements signed with the State guarantee. Madam Secretary of State, these two situations unfortunately confirm your government's inability to influence economic decisions taken regardless of the employment or development of our territories. Yet the IDU group, Agir et indépendants, is not resisting this industrial decline. Our proposals are numerous and concrete. We believe that the quality of life at work must be advanced through digitalisation and automation, and the labour market must be boosted by improving training and further developing alternation. We therefore propose a novelty, a real generation contract that would be a bridge between the retiring person and the young person hired to replace it – a device that will be all the more appreciated as it was understood that it would be necessary to work longer. It would allow everyone to strike a balance in terms of time, and this training period would ensure quality monitoring and the maintenance of know-how in enterprises. We could thus retain our know-how, support the fabric of the TPEs and PMIs to help them in their investments and transitions, and support all our companies in their export development, as well as our European neighbours, in particular the Germans, whose industry is three times as important as ours. Finally, while our compatriots will have to express themselves in less than a month to choose their Members of the European Parliament, we must reaffirm our will to build a Europe of power by changing European competition law. Together with the members of the IUD, Agir and independent group, we see the difficulties of our industry, but we also know that our know-how and the quality of our workers, our employees and our engineers is a great asset. It is up to us to put in place real concrete and effective policies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u6	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u7	Before mentioning the country's industrial policy, I would like to pay tribute to this employee of the Arjowiggins company who ended his days last week, as well as to all the people who died at work or because of their work: their number is huge, more than 1600 each year, and they are most often anonymous. Indeed, to talk about industrial policy, we must start by thinking about the women and men who have shaped and made the industry live. Despite their condescending expressions of friendship, many of our leaders profess deep contempt for the working class. Emmanuel Macron has often given the most brilliant and saddest example. Let us remember his insulting words about Gad's workers! We must look at this unpleasant reality to understand where the industrial crisis we are going. The ideological blindness of the Liberals has forced them to abandon the industry for years. This blindness finds its source in their contempt for those who produce riches. Now there are only numbers, graphs, stock market prices. The producers and what they produce, who cares? What concerns governments are shareholders and investors: these are the raptors that must be satisfied! To satisfy this rapacity, the Liberals invented evil blackmail. They opened the borders and decreed that the capital invested should earn more and more, otherwise it would find itself investing elsewhere. The European Union has been decisive in the introduction of this blackmail. She engraved in the marble a doctrine of crooks: free and undistorted competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u8	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u9	Now, states could no longer support their industry, public investment would come to the private for a bite of bread, and the big ones would eat the small ones. Under the guise of preventing monopolies, the European Union has created the conditions for establishing oligopolies: a few large companies share the markets and agree on the backs of their employees... The European Union has created the conditions for taking employees to the throat. Hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of them have already been told that they are too expensive and that the box will have to relocate, or that it will be necessary to merge to hold on. And every time, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands have lost their jobs. Over the years, France has emptied itself of its industrial jobs: it has let its hands be cut off. Public services are gradually being sold for cutting. Large companies are turning around like vultures. There are annuities to grab: prices are blazing to pay large dividends, while wages are collapsing. Users and employees find themselves nose to nose, bewildered and rabies at heart. Meanwhile, those who pull the strings are recovering the maggot and going to hide it in tax havens – what the European Union, again, has planned. The tax havens, it allows some to flourish within it, and not least: Luxembourg, Malta, Ireland, the Netherlands. In the midst of all this, what is the Government doing? Nothing, if not worsen the situation. For privatizations, everyone knows: he sells the hen with gold eggs to his boyfriends at CAC 40. Oligarchs make gifts – on the charge of revenge! It's not corruption, no, it's a class policy. Wolves don't eat between themselves, they feed on each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u10	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u11	Paris Airport, Gaz de France, the French Games... In this great banquet of scavengers, there will be for everyone: business banks, lawyers, strategy firms, communication advisors, everyone will be served. There will even be journalists to do the after-sales service and find all this wonderful. How could oligarchs not believe it? They are at the top of the pyramid and all stand together: brothers, sisters, cousins, friends, prom buddies or simply husband and wife... It is the oligarchy in the heart of the Republic. The other industries are closing one by one, and the Government is letting it. General Electric disappointed Alstom – the takeover had been authorized... by Emmanuel Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u13	Dismissals are made up on voluntary departures. Nokia lets the old sites of Alcatel perish, and the Government is unable to impose a dynamic. And so on: Vallourec, the Fonderies du Poitou, Ford, the blast furnaces of Pont-à-Mousson and so many others... Relaunching the industry in France is an absolute necessity. This is the condition of any ecological transition. We must stop bringing the products we consume every day from the end of the world, and transform the entire production to make it environmentally sustainable. This implies the setting in motion of financiers, voluntary and planning action by the State, the protection of markets, massive public investment and the support of enterprises through public procurement; In short, everything that the European Union prevents us from doing and everything that our banker president refuses to do. It is necessary to get out of the European treaties in order to introduce solidarity protectionism and to achieve popular ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u14	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u15	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u16	"It is an economic basin that will die... We take forty floors in the face. This is the sentence we heard a month ago, when the commercial court sealed the fate of the 580 workers of Arjowiggins in the Sarthe. This liquidation results in a bleed, an addition of family galleys. I remind you, even if it's with restraint, because behind the machines stopped, there are jolted lives. The press has also recently reported the suicide of a former employee of this company, father of two children, who has been working for thirty-three years in cutting and finishing. Arjowiggins is far from being an isolated case: social plans, industrial closures, partial rescues with degreasing and employees left at the edge of the road, are not experiencing the crisis. Only half of GM&amp;S employees in Creuse, who were laid off in 2017, returned to work. The acquisition of Alstom by General Electric, which promised the creation of 1000 jobs in France, resulted in 600 job losses in renewable energies. The Peugeot factory in Hérimoncourt, the birthplace of the brand in 1833, will be relocated to Vesoul, Haute-Saône, with its 200 jobs, leading to an unprecedented devitalization of what was an industrial territory in the countryside. Froneri, in the Oise, which had 317 employees, closed its site in February: 130 employees are still on the tile. The Fonderie du Poitou, 800 employees, came under the control of an Anglo-Indian group, a rescue that resulted in 75 job losses in the cast iron industry. Ford closes its Blanquefort site in an arm of honour to the state, leaving 900 employees on the sand. The inventory is far from complete, but these examples raise the question of the gap between the statements of the President of the Republic and yours, Madam Secretary of State, on industrial restart and reality. However, employees and their unions have formulated relevant alternatives, which should have been taken into account. At the beginning of 2019, the balance between openings and closings of factories is negative in our country, contrary to what the Government says, because it did not have a real overall policy. Unfortunately, that is what we must do. There is indeed a minister of the economy and actions such as the Territories of Industry, from which my constituency also benefits, but a minister forced to act as a firefighter to limit the social breakdown does not replace more than an ambulance the large-scale program that France lacks after forty years of abandoning industrial policy. The policy for finance, the one chosen by Emmanuel Macron, a neoliberal policy of tailor-made supply for CAC 40, does not make an industrial policy, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u17	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u18	The other day, the boss of an SME in my territory, a company he struggles to finance in cash – it's not a start-up! – while working well, was very strong against the abolition of the ISF without any matching obligation in the real economy. When an industrial enterprise breaks its face, it often has no strategy. You don't have a strategy either. No strategy to invest massively in training as close as possible to the territories, with a fine mesh by pool of jobs – I say "massively", I am not talking about the 500 homeopathic euros of the Pénicaud plan. There is no strategy to reorient the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – to the real economy, while this is what SMEs-PMI expect to do to irrigate our territories and provide the best bulwark to the phenomenon of metropolisation. No strategy to stop the destruction of value that major groups, attached to the law of immediate and maximum profitability, operate by booming their subcontractors. In the economic order that you defend, runoff is upside down: small boxes, such as streams, make the large rivers the originators of order, large companies that, they, capture the value. Whether you want it or not, it is rich as water, which does not flow from the Channel or from the estuary of the Seine to its tributaries. Nor is there a strategy to facilitate the financing of SMEs' industrial projects, where state and regional investment should be increased by 100. It is not only necessary to accompany the virtual economy of start-ups and the service sector in fashion, but to incorporate into the decision-making criteria the question of spatial planning in industrial matters, an issue which should guide the choices of the Government, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u19	No, no strategy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u20	No strategy to prevent foreign capital from taking control of our industrial florets. Here, too, your government is not at the rendezvous to preserve a national industrial sovereignty: I am thinking of Fincantieri in shipbuilding, an area where Chinese enterrism is worrying. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] If we had to take stock of this revolution on the march that we were promised, I would say to Minister Le Maire: "Bruno, renewal is not on the table. On the contrary, the abandonment of territories and employees continues to crush territories and to push, to hurt lives! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u21	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u22	In 2005, the Beffa report made a serious observation of our industry, pointing to two major pitfalls: the weakness of the research and development effort and the excessive specialization in sectors of low technology. What about 15 years later? All these years, marked by the crisis, have accelerated certain changes and have also been characterized by the continuous decline of several indicators: the share of industry in our GDP, the curve of industrial employment or the deterioration of the manufacturing balance. Behind these cold figures are the closures of sites that have hit our fellow citizens hard, plunging families into deep disarray, and also affected territories, where the unemployment rate has risen sharply. The awareness of this deindustrialisation has led successive governments over the past decade to rethink our industrial policy. This has resulted in the creation of competitiveness clusters, the National Industry Council and strategic sector committees. On the financial side, I welcome the successive investment programmes – PIA – for the future. In this regard, Madam Secretary of State, perhaps you will be able to inform us about the progress of the Grand Investment Plan, mobilising €57 billion over five years and including IAP 3. Many of us are waiting for clarification in this regard. The cost-competitiveness of our companies has also improved since 2012, particularly as a result of the CICE. As for the research tax credit, it is a tool to support private innovation, even if it is the victim of well-known windfall effects: can you tell us whether it will be affected by the review of tax niches announced by the President of the Republic last Thursday? These combined efforts helped stop the industrial haemorrhage in 2017, a year marked by a positive balance of industrial job creation. Industrial production is also experiencing a slight recovery. While these results are welcome, they remain fragile and contrasted across regions and sectors. This embellishment must lead us to understand, in a context of a globalised and widely open economy, the industrial policy pursued by our country. Is there even a real industrial policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u23	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u24	The management of Ascoval's records, the Ford plant in Blanquefort or the STX shipyards can make us doubt it. In the time of my speech, I will not be able to address all the implications of my question and will limit my remarks to three dimensions. The first concerns our SMEs and ITEs. They find it difficult to develop at international level, unlike their European competitors. Let us recognize, however, that some of the measures in the CAPTE Act – Action Plan for Business Growth and Transformation – are in the right direction. I am thinking, for example, of supporting SMEs in patenting, although I doubt that this is enough. Active support will therefore have to be implemented so that they can take full advantage of these mechanisms. Similarly, does the Government intend to develop measures to support the investment of industrial SMEs and, more broadly, tools for transformation into the industry of the future, particularly via digital technology? The second point I would like to stress is the link between spatial planning and industrial policy. It's essential. You have launched the Territories of Industry programme, with €1.3 billion. It does not benefit from new means, only from the reallocation of old appropriations. That's unfortunate. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, take a step point on this deployment? Industrial policy must also involve the regions, which are competent for economic development, and which develop important mechanisms and resources. In Occitanie, for example, we will spend €200 million between 2018 and 2021 on the development of the aviation sector, as part of the Ader 4 plan. Our region is also heavily involved in the agri-food component of the IAP. Regions should no longer be considered as substitutes. Let us keep this in mind with a view to future territorial reform. Finally, the last dimension is obviously European. We all remember the Commission's veto on the merger between Alstom and Siemens. Hence my question: What about the redefinition of competition rules at Community level?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u25	Nowhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u26	What is the Government pursuing in favour of European sovereignty?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u27	None!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u28	In this respect, what about projects of common European interest? Nanotechnology – Nano 2022 – has just been launched: what about the other sectors, whether it is artificial intelligence, electric batteries or the autonomous car? [[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups]] It is by taking these three dimensions into account that we can draw an industrial policy that is both offensive and defensive, based on long-term visibility, with renewed methods of intervention between a strategist state, sectors, local authorities of course and Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u29	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u30	For twenty years, Madam Secretary of State, French industry has registered a continuing and worrying decline. France has been hit hard by deindustrialisation: 1 million industrial jobs have been destroyed and many production sites relocated to high-cost countries. Beyond these structural phenomena inherent in a globalised economy, previous governments, beyond their political diversity, have not always made the right choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u31	And it's going on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u32	We have missed important industrial markets, such as photovoltaic panels, while China has seized this opportunity. The same is true for the wind turbine sector: prototype engines were manufactured in my constituency some 20 years ago, but when it came to mass production, France, unlike Germany, missed the tick!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u33	And there is still no industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u34	We find ourselves at a crossroads: with the ecological transition, we are obliged to reinvent our industrial model. We have very beautiful industries, with tremendous capabilities, especially in the field of material recycling, which would allow them to combine production and respect for the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, industry is indispensable to the economy and extremely important to our territories, as you are all aware. You know the leverage it exerts on the rest of the economy, and how much it protects employees since the most protective collective agreements are often found in industry,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u35	This is no longer the case since the labor law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u36	...as well as the best employment contracts and the highest wages. There is also a direct link between deindustrialisation and the rise of extremes: without industries, our fellow citizens, especially in rural areas, feel abandoned. The North of France, which is dear to me, has suffered a lot in recent years. Madam Secretary of State, you've committed yourself. The President has committed himself, the Government has committed itself. The decision on the Asco file will be issued on May 2. We hope for a positive outcome to the extremely strong mobilization that you have undertaken to maintain in our territory the industrial activity of this magnificent steel company. There are already successes: the President of the Republic has announced more than 200 jobs at Renault, and Toyota will make 300 in Onnaing. It is thus more than 500 hires that will take place in a basin that was said a few years ago to be disindustrialized. Yes, it's a success. These battles, you lead them forward. We do not win every time, in terms of industrial policy: it is sometimes difficult to find buyers when the sector or the sector appears to be in decline. But the liquidation of the Arjowiggins stationery could have been anticipated years ago. We must ask ourselves how to find a vocation to industrial sites that no longer necessarily have reason to exist, such as stationery in France. These questions need to be asked, and maximum emphasis placed on anticipation. It is not obvious, but in the territories that have known mines in the past, one must be able at least to anticipate the social destruction that can occur. The Prime Minister has given me a mission on the industry of the future, an industry of the future that must concern the whole fabric of SMEs and TPEs. Knowing that, on average, our industrial tool is nineteen years old, the Government has created the "bottom damping" system, which should encourage TPEs and SMEs in our territories to equip themselves more and to renew their equipment. Skills and training have already been discussed: the Government has also launched the competence investment plan, which is EUR 15 billion for the territories, as well as regional agreements – you mentioned, we are joining us on this point – an alliance between the state and the communities to create the training offer needed for recruitment into our companies. Finally! The Hauts-de-France will thus receive 750 million and I assume, Mr Jumel, that your region, Normandy, has also received a beautiful pactole in order to create training adapted for employees!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u37	We haven't seen the color!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u38	This is a real vision of the industrial tool and, on the other hand, of training, and it is very positive. Let's talk more about the National Council of Industry, or about the upcoming creation of two platforms in the industry of the future to engage in the scaling up of processes and the improvement of the skills of our entrepreneurs, workers and other employees. They must be able to adapt to new technologies, which must not remain in the direction of large groups and ITEs, but irrigate the entire industrial fabric. That is, I believe, the commitment made by the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us assume our economic model, because the industry of the future is our common good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u39	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u40	As it is impossible to go around the subject in five minutes, I shall confine myself to referring to four priority projects. The first is the protection of our strategic companies. The Committee of Inquiry into State Decisions on Industrial Policy, which I had the honour of chairing and of which Guillaume Kasbarian was the rapporteur, made proposals on this subject, several of which have been followed up, which I welcome. With the strengthening of the system for the authorisation of foreign investment in France provided for by the CAPTE law and the extension of its scope by regulation, the most significant progress is the introduction of the start of parliamentary control, proposed by Mr Kasbarian, and the European initiative which, with the adoption of the regulation on the filtering of foreign investment in Europe, will bring more coherence. However, these tools remain to be seized. On this point, Madam Secretary of State, I still have some doubts and some mistrust. I would not like to see a new illustration of the "at the same time" happening: we build beautiful control tools, but at the same time we let ourselves be bought out of our strategic companies... For example, the French company Linxens, the world leader in micro-connection for smart cards, was recently purchased by a Chinese company, Tsinghua Unigroup, which is 51% controlled by US public funds. Such an operation would never have been accepted in the United States, even under the Obama administration! The protection of our national champions, whether strategic or non-strategic, must be a strength of our industrial policy, as our industry is structured around its major groups. Several of our colleagues have recalled the disastrous consequences of Alstom's and Alcatel's sales. The loss of State control has led to disastrous social plans. The second priority is the restoration of cost competitiveness, which, unfortunately, is not progressing because of a lack of will. I will only mention the Government's return on corporate tax, and the lack of visibility given to us about the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in expenses. Finally, you do not seem to want to go any further than the effort undertaken in 2017. We are also concerned to see you consider production taxes – which are nothing but local government taxes. Here again, the Government uses misconceptions and disappoints itself from its responsibilities. The third major project is the financing of our industry. The structural lack of own funds hinders the development of our enterprises and makes them particularly vulnerable to external buy-back operations. In this area, we note in recent years a continuity of policies, which is all the more welcome since it is rare: the strategic investment fund (SIF) created by Nicolas Sarkozy has become a public investment bank (PIB) under François Hollande, now with a portfolio capacity of 30 billion euros, which works with SMEs and ITEs in the region. This is progress, but it is still very insufficient: our country must go much further and create a genuine French sovereign fund, as the Republicans propose. This fund should be endowed with 200 or 300 billion euros, which is not impossible: the French savings amount to 5000 billion! Maybe we should make that savings a little less liquid. The French love their industry, we must seize this opportunity. The fourth major project concerns European issues. I'll only remember two of them. The first is reciprocity: let us stop being the only economic space in the world open to all winds! We are open to companies from markets that, for their part, are closed to us! Reciprocity, Madam Secretary of State, is a requirement of treaties: let's play it. If the Commission forgets this, the French State has the right to remind it! The second European issue is the unbearable tax or social dumping that takes place within Europe itself. What you rightly blame for the US GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – can be blamed on a daily basis for European companies choosing to settle in countries offering them a less-so-called tax or social. A European directive, currently under discussion, could allow national authorities to block cross-border transactions such as mergers, divisions or moves, if they are found to be abusive or fraudulent. It follows a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Polbud judgment, which was considered scandalous because of the freedom it gave companies to move their production sites overnight. Madam Secretary of State, we can no longer allow such practices to take place, let the job be sacrificed to demands which, admittedly, serve only dividends and are sometimes unreasonable. The Government must therefore take advantage of this opportunity to achieve a genuine moralisation of the rules of the game in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u41	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u42	The French health industries and technologies sector comprises some 3100 companies, which total about 450,000 direct and associated jobs and generate around 90 billion euros in turnover, of which 35.6 billion are exports. In addition to playing a fundamental role in our health, this sector is therefore also a major player in our economy and employment. The drug industry has begun a major revolution that is constantly accelerating: the bio-drug, which can be peptide, protein, antibodies, gene or cell, now supplants more traditional therapies from chemical synthesis. We have moved from dream to reality, not only with the first treatments targeting more than 7,000 rare diseases, but also with the offer of immunotherapy targeting different forms of cancer and, tomorrow, neurodegenerative pathologies. Scientific and financial analysts agree that these therapies are mature. But the passage of these therapeutic innovations from the paillasse to the bed of the patient – what Anglo-Saxons call "frombench to bed" – is hurting in our country. Therefore, the risk is great, and the movement is already underway, of seeing valuable products from French research going abroad – so that we then pay them at a high price in order to treat French patients. The two main bottlenecks are known. The first is due to our biotherapy evaluation systems, whose management methods must adapt as quickly as possible to these breaking innovations. The second, which only interests us here, concerns our capacity to bioproduce these new therapies. We are just able here or there to produce a few clinical batches for a few patients, and therefore far from being able to treat the thousands of patients we will have to treat in the years to come. It is therefore urgent to organise the new industrial sector of bioproduction, by putting public actors and companies, from biotechnology startups to the major accounts of the pharmaceutical industry, around the table. We have great assets to become leaders in this new activity. There's still time. It is also about the value of our research, and even more about our independence and ability to treat our patients with the biopharmaceuticals resulting from this research. The Health Industries Strategic Council has long pointed to this structural weakness. His last meeting last July raised many hopes, which he now gives us as soon as possible. A major step forward was the signing of the strategic health industry and technology sector contract in Bercy last February. Bioproduction is one of the four priorities chosen, with the aim of increasing the productivity of biological molecules production technologies by a factor of 100 within ten years, and of strengthening the French pharmaceutical sector by industrialization of these breaking technologies on the national territory. The expectations of this contract are very strong. We need to integrate skills development, support for SMEs and the adaptation of regulation and evaluation – in short, a complete paradigm shift, at a time when chemical blockbusters are giving way to targeted bio-therapeutic innovations. It is also essential to keep our nuggets in France and allow them to access the market without having to sell abroad to finance the phases of clinical research. To this end, the InnoBio 2 investment fund, also launched earlier this year with Bpifrance and Sanofi, will have to be ambitious enough to meet this challenge. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to remind you once again here how strategic the national mobilization for the structuring of the bioproduction sector is, above all for our sick and future patients, but also for the future of this industrial sector in the midst of revolution, a revolution that we have no right to miss.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u43	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u44	On 20 March, I was asking the Government about the situation at the Ford plant in Blanquefort. Each question session on news sounds of concerns about the future of industrial sites: General Electric in Belfort, Saint-Gobain in Pont-à-Mousson, as Dominique Potier, Arjowiggins in the Sarthe and the Loir-et-Cher, Titoulet in the Loire, as will recall Régis Juanico, Ascoval in the North, Fonderies du Poitou in the Vienne or Saint Louis Sucre in the Calvados, to name but the most recent cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u45	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u46	Each time, the minister details the Government's great attention. It is a pleasure to recall that after ten years of decline in industrial employment, the figures are starting to rise again since 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u47	Yeah, that's a fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u48	This fragile embellishment is due to the industrial voluntarism that was at work between 2012 and 2017: the creation of Bpifrance had then endowed the State with an armed arm, the productive recovery had been established as a priority, with the development of thirty-four strategic channels, and the recovery of enterprises had been facilitated by the right of information of employees and the development of cooperatives. Since then, your policy is unfortunately neither defensive nor sufficiently protective of threatened sites nor offensive, not seeking to further boost this industrial development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u49	She's passive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u50	Your industrial policy is simply absent. But can we expect industrial voluntarism from the government of an ultraliberal president, former business banker at Rotschild, where he was in charge of mergers and acquisitions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u52	This guilty laissez-faire is in line with this financial approach, which makes little use of men, know-how and territories. I would now like to return to the case of Ford in Blanquefort. Much has been said about the iniquitous nature of the closure of a profitable factory by a company that makes considerable profits. You said, Madam Secretary of State, that you obtained 20 million euros from the company. I say again, that's not enough! It is time for the state to take responsibility for this issue and intervene directly to safeguard jobs. We must stop talking about revitalization, to talk about reindustrialization: this would allow local authorities to have free control of the land in order to carry out the conversion of the site.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u53	That's a concrete solution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u54	In addition, in recent years, during the mandatory annual wage negotiations, employees have occupied management offices to claim an exceptional premium. Madam Secretary of State, the State must support this legitimate request. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] Against the roll of financial capitalism and stock market layoffs, concrete measures are needed to prevent the ruin of this industrial tool and to prevent this social disaster in our girondin territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u56	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this debate on the Government's industrial policy and am pleased that we can spend several hours on this crucial subject. I have recognized in your interventions concerns that I will gladly address. In order to put things in perspective, let me remind you of where we came from and the first results we achieved. As some of you have said, the country has been de-industrializing for forty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u58	More like seven.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u59	We are not going to look for those responsible: I am only making this observation, which has been repeated by each other and which is fairly widely shared. Since the 2000s, France has also deindustrialised: in twenty years we have lost 1 million industrial jobs and our companies' market shares have eroded both internationally and in France. Over the past 20 years, we have lost competitiveness, mainly because of a much higher labour cost than other European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u60	The SMIC is a little too high, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u61	I am referring here to countries that have a social and environmental model comparable to ours: I am talking about Germany, I am talking about Italy, I am talking about Sweden, I am talking about Denmark, or even Switzerland, which, if it is not part of the European Union, also has a very strong industry. The consequence of such an evolution? Our large groups have installed their production sites outside the country, sometimes leaving high value-added activities such as product design and research and development in France, thanks to the research tax credit and our innovation policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u62	Only thanks to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u63	On the other hand, our SMEs and ETIs, which have remained in our territory, have lost market share and activity as a result of their loss of competitiveness not only vis-à-vis Germany, but also, to name but just a few, vis-à-vis Italy, Spain and Switzerland. Moreover, I do not compare us to emerging countries that do not have the same social model or, of course, the same environmental requirements. So our productive apparatus has become impoverished. Investors disinterested in France, not only because we were less competitive, but also because our regulations seemed more complex, especially because our labour market was perceived as rigid and our taxes were particularly unfavourable compared, again, with that of our European neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u64	Nice liberal approach!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u65	What has happened since 2017? France has emerged from this vicious circle, and the industrial recovery is sensitive. A few figures on jobs: between 2001 and 2008, 75,000 industrial jobs were destroyed each year. I spare you the period 2008-2010, which corresponds to a crisis: 130,000 industrial jobs were destroyed each year, it was indeed a bleed. Between 2010 and 2017, 28,000 industrial jobs were destroyed each year. Since then, we have been growing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u66	It's all right, Marquise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u67	Industrial employment has thus recovered: more factories have opened and closed, and France has been the first destination for foreign industrial investment in Europe for two years in a row, corresponding to a 30% jump. Large companies such as Toyota have invested 300 million euros in Maubeuge, as well as AstraZeneca and General Mills, which have also invested several tens or hundreds of millions in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u68	We are talking about companies in difficulty: I want to say again that there are Bercy services that act in the shadows to ensure that 90% of the sites are saved, three out of four jobs. These are the real statistics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u69	Yeah.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u70	You mentioned, just to take this example, Fonderie du Poitou: I have visited it several times, and I believe that all local elected officials and trade union organisations welcomed the project of recovery that was confirmed last Friday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u71	France attracts investors and industrialists, and in particular innovative industrialists: this is proof that our industrial policy is producing results. So of course, and you are absolutely right on this point, this recovery is fragile. The fight to re-establish France as an industrial and export power, while respecting our social and ecological and energy transition model, remains to be waged. To do this, we first decided to change the method: policies must not be imposed from above, without consultation with the territories and with the industrialists. On the contrary, we propose an industrial policy by sector and territory. By sector, this corresponds to the great partnership work between the Government, the industrialists and, I would like to stress, the trade union organizations that we have launched with the National Industry Council. Eighteen sectors are now labeled, and fifteen have contracted on very concrete projects for innovation and the acceleration of SME growth, export or skills development: this is a first answer, Mr Potier, to this question on how to accompany the transition of skills. A specific group has thus, and this is not a surprise, been created in the automotive sector on diesel. By territory, we propose an agile solution: the Territories of Industry initiative, which allows 136 territories to be accompanied. You've been asking several of us where we are. The first element of the answer is that today it is the regions that are piloting this policy, and we are accompanying them. In addition, a number of public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation have partnered with industrialists to build projects. This can be seen in the territories: a number of projects are being developed. We now have about ten signed agreements, and we are about to sign three more at once. These pilot territories now propose, to name but a few of these facts, very concrete projects to attract new activities, improve skills and meet the recruitment needs you mentioned, and to defend innovation programmes. The aim is to bring together all the ingredients of competitiveness: training, innovation, business real estate, investment, very high speed. Above all, it is to bring a tailor-made solution to all these territories. Those of you who represent these industrial territories know that some of the solutions that will be proposed to them will not be adapted to the neighbour, because one has a coastal facade, the other has a deep industrial history but a need for revival, and the other, as on the side of General Electric and Belfort, a need for transformation and diversification. We are facing the various challenges we face. The first challenge, as you understand it, is competitiveness, and first, as you said, competitiveness-cost. To cope with this, we have transformed the CICE into a reduction in long-term charges. This is important because, as you know, the CICE was treated at the bottom of the profit and loss account and was not always involved in investment decision-making. Transformed into a reduction in social contributions, it is immediately taken into account and therefore anticipated by companies. We are lowering corporate tax, with the aim of reaching the European average: it is a question of sending a signal to foreign investors without falling into tax dumping. We have also brought our capital taxes into line with the European average, so that our companies can invest more in innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u72	It doesn't leak, but they act like they do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u73	We will also remove, thanks to the CAPTE law, some of you mentioned, a series of financial, administrative and cultural obstacles that prevented our businesses from growing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u74	The rich thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u75	A number proves the strength of these French blockages: we only count 960 industrial ETIs! Nine hundred and sixty independent industrialists while there would be more than 4000 in Germany! The restoration of our competitiveness also involves, as you mentioned, the modernization of our production apparatus. Today, we see a considerable delay in digitisation and robotics. We scan ourselves and we robot ourselves too slowly. In France, there are 19 robots per 1,000 employees, compared to 20 in Italy and 34 in Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u76	[[Smile]] There are at least 300 of them in the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u77	That is why the Government has taken a number of measures to support SMEs in their digitisation: I am responding to a question from Mrs Pinel. We have launched a plan for the industry of the future with 500 million euros, through one over-amortization over two years of investments in digitisation and robotics as well as through – this is essential – the individual support of 10,000 SMEs to the industry of the future. It is not simply a question of investing in robots, but of knowing what one wants to do and how one wants to transform its production: the industry of the future, industry 4.0 gives us today an unprecedented lever in order to relocate production to France. It allows us to regain competitiveness-cost and above all agility, the ability to innovate and respond quickly to customers. One of the strengths of the French economy is innovation, due in particular to our engineers. It is highly valued by those who compare themselves to us and consider our engineers to be among the best in the world. We need to finance and support our SMEs to adapt their production to the new economic realities: accompanying and financing are indeed two essential elements. And then, Mr.Potier said, this out-of-cost competitiveness lever also includes access to a number of raw materials: it is a priority of the National Industry Council, which has mandated a specific mission on access to rare metals – which are not really rare, but especially difficult to extract at acceptable costs. You know that a reform of the mining code is planned, which would partly answer this question. The Eramet Group, whose state is a shareholder, is also mandated to work on greater sovereignty in access to a number of metals. This work is not limited to nickel issues alone: it goes further and deals in particular with cobalt and tungsten.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u78	What about the Golden Mountain?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u79	This has nothing to do with it. The second challenge is innovation. Innovating is the condition of competitiveness: it is a great principle of our economic policy that guides all our actions. If, in the face of massive investment programmes in research and development carried out by China, India or the United States, we do not invest massively, both at French and European level, in new technologies, our industry will be distanced. That is why we have sanitized the research tax credit: 6 to 7 billion euros per year will be used to make French engineers the most competitive in Europe. Of course, attention will have to be paid to possible drifts, but at this stage this tool is not called into question. That is why every sector of the National Industry Council is taking on an ambitious innovation project, because it is by innovation that we will respond to today's major challenges: the energy and ecological transition, and the digital transition. A few examples: the shipbuilding industry is working on less expensive energy propulsion and environmental footprint, and the chemicals and materials industry is conducting research on the decarbonization of its chemical processes. Each sector contract concentrates its research and development efforts on one or two structuring projects: you mentioned, Mr Berta, the bioproduction project in the strategic health sector contract. I would like to announce that the last National Innovation Council has decided to make this issue of bioproductions a challenge: it will therefore be specifically funded under the Industrial Innovation Fund. We have created a break-up innovation fund with a budget of EUR 10 billion. The annual return of this fund, of 250 million euros, will finance the industrial challenges of tomorrow: artificial intelligence, the storage of high-density energy, cybersecurity and, therefore, bioproduction. Our innovation strategy...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u80	And privatization!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u81	I do not think privatisation is about industrial companies, Mr President – but I would not like to move forward, because I am not responsible for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u82	ADP, isn't it an industrial company?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u83	Our innovation strategy, I said, is offensive, but innovation without defending itself does not have to be. Many of you have pointed out that we need to protect our technologies. That is why, with your support, we have changed the control mechanism for foreign investment in France as part of the PACTE bill. Sanctions have been strengthened and strategic areas are better protected. The wording adopted allows for a broader approach to the issue. Furthermore, at our instigation, the European Union has adopted a directive to better control foreign investment in Europe. We are now better equipped to protect our technological enterprises. Again, this is a major issue. The third challenge is skills. We can multiply the great voluntarist discourses, the great obstacle to industrial development today, is the difficulty that companies have to recruit: 50,000 industrial jobs, immediately available, do not find candidates. If the skills existed, up to 100,000 could be recruited, even 200,000 people in addition to the 250,000 who will compensate for retirements in the coming years. This skill requirement is felt at all levels: engineers, post-docs, but also boilermakers, welders, qualified operators, specialized technicians, electro-technicians, maintenance specialists. Our factories must have access to these skills as quickly as possible. It is also necessary to anticipate the evolution of skills in order to adapt them to the ecological and energy transition. I have already talked about diesel: it also raises questions about skill transformation. For this reason, from the first few weeks of the quinquennium, Muriel Pénicaud has embarked on a reform of vocational training aimed at entrusting companies and industries with the task of defining their skills needs, and then setting up the training they need. We will spend a total of EUR 15 billion on the skills investment plan, which is decisive for our economy. It was an effort that no other government had made. As skills developed over the long term, they needed to be addressed from the outset. That's what we did. We will continue in this direction in the coming months. This dimension is also present in all Territories of Industry projects. Meeting the skills challenge involves attracting young people to industry. There will be no economic industrial winback without a cultural winback from the industry. I want to address the young people in the gallery in particular. The industry has kept an image of the past, with factories spitting smoke, difficult working conditions and low-value and low-paid jobs, while covering future jobs, which pay more than service jobs, and sectors ready to hire. To change the image of the industry, we wanted to make 2019 the great year of the industry. All year round, we will talk about industry in all the cities of France, especially in medium-sized agglomerations. This is the meaning of Industry Week, which welcomed 800,000 visitors this year, compared with 350,000 last year, and which gave Mr. Jumel the opportunity to present, in the court of Matignon, the new Alpine model to many high school students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u84	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u85	[[Smile]] Ah, that's pretty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u86	I was proud of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u87	This is also the meaning of the French Fab Tour: to go to sixty medium-sized cities to get in touch with college students and high school students in order to feed their imagination before they choose their orientation, to meet the students at the moment when they are permanently orientated and they need to represent themselves in practice what are the trades of the industry, and to facilitate contacts between job seekers and the companies that recruit. I was in Brest last week: in a single day, 4000 contacts with job seekers were established. That is to say, it is possible to act! The fourth challenge: putting all our public policies at the service of industry. We are all potential players in this area. This concerns infrastructure: if we want industry to be established in all French territories, we must give everyone the same advantages in terms of accessibility. This concerns network coverage. The France Very high-speed plan will bring to all a high-quality broadband before the end of 2020 and the very high-speed before the end of 2022. The New Deal Mobile aims to ensure that 99.5% of the population benefits from a quality 4G by 2022. The coverage will not stop at 4G: we have defined an ambitious roadmap for 5G, while taking into account the specificities of this technology and its health challenges. The aim is to support industries throughout the national territory. Each large industrial area must be able to benefit from this asset in order to further increase its competitiveness. Finally, the fifth challenge – which you have all mentioned – relates to Europe. France has major assets: large companies, large universities, excellent infrastructure, but, let's be lucid, in the face of China, the United States or India, our industry will not be able to do the job. We must unite, at European level, to develop the key technologies of tomorrow. To do this, we do several actions. First, we have defined eight strategic value chains. Two are already the subject of a specific action: nanoelectronics, which we support to the tune of 700 million euros; and batteries of electric vehicles, which are the subject of concerted action at European level, in particular with Germany – other countries to join us. We want to do the same with other specific chains, such as artificial intelligence or hydrogen storage, because we believe that in these sectors we cannot lag behind, and instead we have to grant them state aid, as the United States or China are already doing – to name but a few. We must also review our competition policy. If the rules in force were long effective, they are now dated and no longer adapted to the reality of the markets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u88	We have to change the treaties!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u89	In particular, they prevent us from creating European industrial companies capable of competing with their Chinese or American competitors. It must be borne in mind that France's specificity is to have large groups, whereas in Germany there are mainly middle-sized enterprises and in Italy, Portugal and Spain SMEs. The risk is, therefore, that these countries perceive French companies as predators. But this is not what we are talking about at all; What we want is to create a European dynamic that allows us to defend ourselves against outside predators and to assess competition, bearing in mind that the market is no longer only European, but is global and fluctuating, as each invitation to tender may call into question the distribution of different market shares. We have to get ready for it. Siemens Alstom's case is a good illustration of this. A competition for trains took place in the United Kingdom at the same time as the European Commission was investigating the case. However, five competitors were still competing for the last round: this shows that the market in which Alstom and Siemens operate is still very competitive. We must adopt the same approach to trade policy, public procurement, transport and energy. Industry must be the driving force behind our European policies, including on environmental matters. Each time, we have to ask ourselves the following questions: what is the impact of this policy on our industrial fabric? Why should this option be retained? Finally, I agree, Mr Marleix, that we must sanction tax rules and tax dumping – which is never just a form of state aid. Further progress is needed in the area of social and fiscal harmonisation. This is one of the aspects of our programme for Europe. That is the meaning of the Friends of Industry statement of 18 December. We continue to move forward with our German partners – but not just them – to strengthen European capitalism committed to sharing value with employees and to carry out the ecological and energy transition. Having a little lead in this area is also a way to be more competitive than others. In the end, we do not lack ambition or realism. We know where we come from, the road ahead and the decisive challenges for our industry. It is by raising each of these challenges that we will consolidate our growth, that we will achieve by 2025 the employment targets set by the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u90	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...and that we will guarantee our sovereignty in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u92	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that the duration of the questions, as well as the duration of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u93	The announcements made by the President of the Republic last Thursday disappointed. Many have deplored their weakness, particularly in terms of energy and environmental transition. If – I repeat – we do not doubt the will, we wait for action. Environmental emergency calls for ambitious responses, break-up measures, and cannot be limited to the creation of an ecological defence council or a citizen participation council. The time for resolute action must come. [[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] In the area of taxation, I have proposed the establishment of an "ecological ISF", i.e. an ISF entirely oriented towards the energy transition budget, in order to empower the territories, create local wealth and, in doing so, respond to the Government's retreat on the subject. The ecological transition will obviously have a crucial impact on industrial and job creation. The reduction of greenhouse gases, the reduction of the environmental impact of our industries, and the circular economy are all challenges that the state must address in order to accompany our industrial enterprises. In April 2016, Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of Economy, said before the Conseil national de l'industrie, on the occasion of the launch of the Green Growth Commitments: "We can no longer produce in France today as we did yesterday". Three years later, where are we? When one sees how the Netherlands has transformed its industry through this dynamic and its commitment to green growth and the circular economy, one can worry about French immobilism! I could also have told you, Madam Secretary of State, about the France Logistics 2025 strategy, presented in March 2016 by the same Emmanuel Macron: we promised our economy a performance of 20 to 60 billion euros. All of this seems to be at a standstill today. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] My question is: What measures does the Government intend to take to fully address the ecological transition and to help our industries in this direction? Are the proposals I have just mentioned one of the avenues under consideration?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u94	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u95	On the contrary, Mr President, it seems to me that the creation of an ecological defence council is a strong step. Few councils are held at the level of the Presidency of the Republic; This means that the ecological transition is placed at the same level as terrorism and territorial protection. I think that is enough to demonstrate the importance of this measure. As far as the transformation of our productive apparatus is concerned, I repeat that each strategic sector contract contains objectives in terms of ecological and energy transition. This may relate to innovation or, in a cross-cutting way, to the energy transition working groups, in which the sectors work together. To take this only example, if we want to save energy, we need to lighten the materials: this implies that the chemical sector works with the rail, automotive or aeronautical sector. I would like to take this opportunity to point out, since the subject of plastics often comes back to the discussions, that the approach we favour in the framework of the National Council of Industry and strategic sector contracts is to go a little further in the analysis than "composite is good, plastic is bad" and to examine in detail the reality of the environmental footprint of each of the production processes with a view to transforming them. On the other hand, the mission on the competitiveness of the supply chain in France, entrusted to Patrick Daher and Éric Hémar, will soon render its conclusions, which will allow us to take decisions that will be in line with the France Logistics 2025 strategy you mentioned. Finally, I would point out that the French Government has made progress on a number of issues at European level. Thus, the Single-Use Plastics Directive would not have existed if France had not acted in this direction. Similarly, despite the comments made in this House, we are now one of the most advanced countries in the field of plant health products. I would like to give you an opportunity to review the circular economy bill, which will provide a good example of how industry and ecology can be linked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u96	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u97	Madam Secretary of State, I listened carefully. I believe that we all agree on the challenges that you have presented to us; The problem is that all this is very theoretical. For my part, I'll tell you about a territory: the territory of Belfort. This is where Alstom's headquarters are located. Well, I guarantee you that in this territory, your beautiful theories are being undermined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u98	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u99	Let me remind you of the facts – I am speaking under the control of Olivier Marleix, who chaired a commission of inquiry on the subject. When Alstom was sold to General Electric, an agreement, guaranteed by the state and, in particular, by a minister of the economy named Emmanuel Macron – which explains why yesterday's promises have not been kept, it is hard to believe that today's promises will be fulfilled – provided for the creation of 1,000 jobs. However, in fact, it was 25 jobs that were created – and again, by stinging them among the equipment manufacturers, so that in reality, no jobs were created. On the contrary, there is now a social plan for the elimination of 800 jobs. In total, this makes 1800 jobs less than the initial commitments: you can imagine what you can feel in the territory of Belfort! The announcements are dragging, and there is a bit of a feeling that the European elections, after which they are likely to take place, are for many. So I'd like you to reassure us, Madam Secretary of State. Part of the answer to the question asked by my colleague Ian Boucard a few weeks ago did not leave us surprised: General Electric, you said, will spend 50 million euros on the reindustrialization of the territory of Belfort. This is totally wrong: this sum corresponds to the fine the group has to pay for failing to comply with the agreement! Let him deign to put a little more money, and we'll see. You called on communities to invest in certain territories; but, in the territory of Belfort, General Electric is the tenant of its premises, which belong to a SEM – mixed economy company. Communities have therefore mobilized all means, local and investment, for the success of the activity. The territory of Belfort has also made efforts for training and research, with specialization in hydrogen. Despite all this, we see nothing coming. So I'd like to be able to reassure the people of this department a little bit, and beyond. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches. – Olivier Marleix also applauds]] We have a little trouble, I told you, believing in the words given. In May 2015, Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of Economy, visited Alstom's factory. "Belfort," he said, "has an industrial future. [...] You can count on me." We are prepared to believe this, but acknowledge that to date we have very little reason to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u100	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u101	The agreement which was signed by General Electric provided for a number of things, Mr President, namely investments, the maintenance of decision-making centres in France and the creation of jobs, or, failing that, a plethora of funds amounting to EUR 50 million to enable us to create them ourselves. What about it? General Electric has invested more than EUR 1 billion in Alstom throughout France. He maintained the jobs and, in June 2017, even had a balance of 500 jobs created. It then went back, for quite a simple reason: the electric turbine market, which accounted for 50% of its turnover, collapsed on all its international platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u102	He doesn't have a strategy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u103	The group therefore reduced jobs elsewhere and maintained them in France, so that the balance as at 31 December 2018 stood at 25 jobs created. As this figure is lower than the 1000 jobs announced, we asked the group to pay 50 million euros. This amount does not correspond to a fine that would be due for breach of the criminal code, the civil code or an administrative code: it must abound a fund that will finance what has not been obtained, namely the industrialization of territories – and not only Belfort – where General Electric is located. This $50 million fund is being created, and Guy Maugis, a highly skilled and experienced industry in the automotive sector, has just been appointed to drive it. Mr Maugis will review all the industrial diversification projects we are working on; One of them, for example, concerns aeronautics, but other runways are possible. That is how we approach the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u104	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u105	I will continue along the lines of Michel Zumkeller's excellent question. In April 2014, Alstom announced the sale of its energy-related activities to the US company General Electric, an operation in which Emmanuel Macron's responsibility was very strong. Alstom is a concentrate of all the best that the French industry can do: TGVs, electrical construction, marine energy and turbines, which supplied 60% of the world market. In April 2014, it was the manufacture of the turbines that, it should be recalled, equipped our nuclear power plants and our aircraft carrier that came under the control of an American company. On that day, part of our sovereignty was confiscated for the benefit of a foreign multinational. At the time, however, we were assured that this recovery operation would have no impact. But the reality is there: since Alstom was depopulated, the company has struggled to survive and many wind farms at sea have been put at risk. Where the French company Alstom was a world leader, General Electric has worked lightly in its hydraulic subsidiary which produces offshore wind farms, so that today, three parks are in danger, in Courseulles-sur-Mer, in Saint-Nazaire and in Fécamp, precisely because there is no longer a French manufacturer of wind turbines at sea. How can you admit that France, which owns the world's second-largest maritime territory, is so lagging behind in the establishment of offshore wind farms? The problems for employment were also discussed, with a risk of 700 departures by collective contractual break-up in different entities at the beginning of the year, particularly in Belfort. Your government must react: we must recreate a leading industrial sector in France; It is necessary for industrial and sovereignty reasons, and for the ecological transition. My question, Madam Secretary of State, is therefore simple: how do you intend to ensure that a French manufacturer of material strategically indispensable to our sovereignty and the ecological transition is brought to light again?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u107	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u108	Your question actually includes several of them, Mr. Member. First of all, I want to remind you, Alstom has not been depopulated: in France, in its energy part, the company has even been consolidated. I repeat: 1 billion euros have been invested, 3000 people have been recruited – which has compensated for departures and allowed the maintenance of know-how – and four out of five subsidiaries in the new energy sector have their headquarters in France, which represents a substantial share of General Electric's 36 billion euros in turnover. Alstom, each of whom agreed in 2014, had a subcritical size: at the time it was even mentioned a consolidation with Siemens, proof that history was repeating itself. Everyone, on these benches, agreed that Alstom was not sufficiently critical in relation to its major international competitors: on this point, it was necessary to put the church back in the middle of the village.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u109	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u110	With regard to offshore wind power projects, the problem lies in litigation, which has nothing to do with General Electric. When these disputes are resolved – because we are in the rule of law – these plans will come into being, as confirmed by the President of the Republic. Manufacturing must be ensured on the French coast: Le Havre or Saint-Nazaire are mentioned, several options are on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u111	That's not what General Electric says!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u112	That's what he's telling us, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u113	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u114	EU Member States have agreed to require car manufacturers to reduce CO2 emissions by 40% by 2030. This objective is commendable for the ecological transition, but it is a matter of great concern. This is particularly the case for employees of the PSA Sept-Fons plant in Allier, which manufactures crankcases for diesel engines. These employees fear for their jobs and see no concrete measures accompanying the transformation of the sector. It has been months since the motor vehicle industry, manufacturers and trade unions called the alarm to say that this objective is unrealistic because it requires a massive restructuring of the sector in too short a period of time, but also to say that this restructuring will not be without consequences for employment. Today, the acceleration towards electricity is mainly creating jobs in Asia, where almost all the batteries are manufactured: this is the whole difficulty of this scheduled transition. Yes, industrial novation in the twenty-first century must be ecological, and all technological innovations that reduce pollution and the removal of natural resources must be encouraged. But for that, we need real public policies, which are long-term, voluntary and coordinated, both at national and international level. A defensive industrial policy is needed to protect the know-how and jobs of our flagships, and offensive to meet current and future challenges. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] Without a defensive and offensive industrial policy, what clear answers do you bring to the challenges of French industry?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u115	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u116	I will concentrate, Mr President, on your first question, which concerns diesel: in the second, I have previously answered for twenty minutes; I will therefore spare you long rehearsals. With regard to the ecological transition, the challenge is therefore to reduce carbon emissions by 37.5 per cent. You're right, this goal is ambitious. In fact, we cannot save the planet by fighting global warming, on which everyone in your House is undoubtedly convinced, without setting ambitious targets for doing so. These objectives require collective convergence. To reduce CO emissions, there are several solutions. The first is the development of electric cars, but also hybrids, or smaller cylinders, or hydrogen cars. Diesel, as you know, also emits less CO than gasoline. It is the combination of these different solutions that must achieve the stated objective. Our work in this area follows two directions. The first concerns the projections that can be made on the replacement of old engines, whose massive environmental impact is known, whether it is the emission of fine particles, CO or nitrogen oxides – NOx. By removing the engines at the origin of these programs, you do a lot to limit them: this is the whole issue of the conversion bonus. On the other hand, we must accompany the new productions and the economic transformation they undertake: I am thinking, for example, of the production of an intermediate generation of lighter thermal models, before a total conversion to non-CO-emitting engines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u117	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u118	In order to support this development, the Directorate-General for Enterprise follows twenty-three sites – I mentioned about diesel – which represent 10,000 jobs. We are working on conversions, notably through a diesel fund that finances diversification investments, which may concern the automotive sector as well as other sectors, as evidenced by what we are doing for Bosch in Rodez. The issue we are talking about is a deadline of ten or twenty years, we agree; But we are strongly mobilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u119	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u120	On 27 March I asked you here, Madam Secretary of State, about the judicial liquidation of one of the ten largest printing companies in our country, the Stéphanois company Loire Offset Titoulet, to ask you to significantly improve the content of the plan to safeguard employment and to get out of this industrial and human waste, of which 133 former employees suffer the consequences very directly. They fight bravely and still occupy their business. A month ago, I raised before you the doubts of the trade unions about the actual search for potential buyers by the company's managers. In this regard, the recent publication of the report of the firm of expertise mandated by the works council is very meaningful. Beyond the measures of external reclassification, described as "a minima" and "delayed" in relation to the reality of the needs of the employees, APEX concludes that "a judicial liquidation which questions its progress". APEX refers to an ambitious but unrealizable exit plan for judicial reform. Two levers had to be used to sustain the company: the search for a partner who could take control of it; strenuous efforts on the commercial aspects. As regards a possible partner, management's actions, according to APEX, seem to be more formal than real, given the weakness of the resources committed to this end. One can even speak of a clear will of the leaders not to open up capital. On the commercial aspects, the balance sheet at the end of 2018 shows that the commitments made to the court a year ago were not fulfilled, due to the lack of sufficiently strengthened commercial action in a competitive and difficult sector. The situation in which the company found itself therefore also appears to be the result of a lack of management and decision-making in the exit of the reorganization. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] My question, Madam Secretary of State, is therefore threefold: what compensation for AGS – guaranteed wage insurance – could be paid to employees who have suffered this immense damage? When will interdepartmental management for corporate restructuring be able to receive employee representatives, as you have undertaken? How, finally, does the State intend to position itself in the request for clarification of the responsibilities of the leaders of Loire Offset Titoulet, knowing that the agent requests the appointment of an expert to examine the accounting of the company and of the other companies of the directors, and that the unions and the CSE – Economic and Social Committee – also initiate the appropriate judicial procedures?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u121	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u122	I will not go back, honourable Member, on responsibility: on this issue, you appear to have, with the APEX report, elements of which I do not have; Above all, this subject is a matter of justice, since, while I have understood correctly, proceedings are under way, in which the Government does not have to interfere. As for the Interdepartmental Delegate for Enterprise Restructuring, he is part of an administrative continuum: the DIRRECTE – Regional Directorates for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment – and the CRP – Commissioners for Restructuring and the Prevention of Enterprise Difficulties – follow up on the territory and interact with the CIRI – Interdepartmental Committee for Industrial Restructuring – and the Interdepartmental Delegate for Enterprise Restructuring. On that date, the Prefect received the trade union organizations and the DIRRECTE followed this file very closely. The interdepartmental delegate will also receive them if they apply, which is not yet the case. It is therefore not because the file is handled by the Prefect that it is not known and followed by the entire administrative continuum. Finally, you know that the State services have been very responsive, since a support unit for professional security has been set up, which allows a private placement operator to intervene in different ways with the employees to inform them and provide them with psychological support – everyone knows that this is the first step: the Arjowiggins file was sadly mentioned just now – as well as administrative support to help them seek training and accompany them on the definition of their professional project, which will allow them to bounce back. This support scheme, which is not automatic, allows a maximum of employees to be referred to the occupational security contract, which provides for the support of employees over 12 to 15 months. It allows them to benefit from an allowance equal to 75% of their former gross salary, which makes about 95% of their net salary, support reinforced by Pôle emploi, training and various bonuses. All at stake today is to ensure that employees, whether or not they are victims of mismanagement – it is not up to me to qualify it – benefit from a professional rebound. It is our responsibility to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u123	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u124	In his speech to the National Industry Council, the Prime Minister outlined three major issues: Europe, innovation and territories. Whether in terms of innovation or the development of the territories, industrial policy must necessarily have a European dimension. Only by joining together will we be able to develop competitive and innovative channels, as demonstrated by battery initiatives or artificial intelligence. In terms of territorial development, the European dimension is also central. This can be seen very well in my department of the Landes, where two of the main industrial sites in the port of Tarnos are managed by European groups. Without the support of the State and local authorities for many years, these sites would never have been created. It is also easy to see that the majority of exports of our industries are made within the European Union. Above all, many industrial projects in the territories benefit from European funding. We therefore need an industrial policy that is neither offensive nor defensive towards our European partners, because together we will be able to protect and develop our industries. We must unite and protect ourselves, as the Americans and the Chinese do. Europe has made mistakes in the past. The example of the photovoltaic sector, which you mentioned, Madam Secretary of State, should serve as a lesson. We have prevented states from supporting the development of European industrial groups, as we accept massive imports of subsidized Chinese products. At a time when we are about to appoint our representatives to the European Parliament, how can Europe enable us to protect our industries and conquer new markets? How do you envisage the European dimension in France's industrial policy? What will be your actions to move towards a converging European industrial policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u125	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u126	With regard to how Europe can protect our industries, I shall take up the points I have already mentioned. First of all, it is necessary to make the industry the thread of our European policies, particularly in the field of trade: access to the European market is a valuable asset and must be the subject of counterpart measures. When a country closes its public procurement, it is not illegitimate for Europe to do the same; Conversely, when we conclude a free trade treaty with Japan and this country opens its public procurement markets, which is a great novelty, reciprocity must be achieved. The first work on trade policy must therefore aim to ensure a level playing field with non-EU states. Competition policy is the second lever: I have already mentioned it at length. The third is innovation policy. We must allow ourselves to accompany strategic value chains, to allow massive investments in breaking innovations that each Member State of the Union could not finance individually and which are the deposits of future industrial jobs – we have already mentioned batteries in the automotive sector, chips in the nanoelectronics sector or artificial intelligence: eight strategic value chains have been identified. The European dimension of French industrial policy is also to provide for a European clause in public procurement: I call on local authorities to seize this possibility. Today, we have the capacity to make our public procurement a strategic lever of access to orders for SMEs and companies producing in the European Union. These are the elements that I can quickly raise to answer your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u127	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u128	We are meeting today to discuss the Government's industrial policy, which, according to some members of the opposition, is neither offensive nor defensive. However, France's deindustrialisation is not new. In 2000, industry created 16.9% of national wealth; In 2017, it was only 12.5%. For a long time, industrial policy has been to extinguish fires in a short-term logic. A minister went to an industrial site in difficulty, swore his hand on the heart that his government would never let the employees down...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u129	Macron did it when he was a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u130	On the defensive side, the PACTE law strengthens the foreign investment control procedure in France, with real power binding on certain foreign investors. It is a policy of balance, between the attractiveness of France for those who choose to invest in us, and the protection of our strategic florets and technologies. ..., announced in great pomp subsidies, aid, entry into capital or nationalisation, without solving any of the company's economic problems in global competition! Very frequent result: deposit of balance sheet a few months later and wasting of public money. This is the colbertist industrial policy, defended yesterday and, it seems, still today by some oppositions, but which has never worked. Our majority and our government, on the contrary, have an industrial policy that is both offensive and defensive, as my colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot rightly pointed out, and as you also pointed out, Madam Secretary of State. It works and the industry creates jobs again. These new tools are accompanied by a duty of transparency of the executive vis-à-vis the Assembly, such as Olivier Marleix and myself. We have obtained an annual report to parliamentarians on the control of foreign investment in France. Pending the first report, can you give us the 2018 figures on the volume of foreign investment in France controlled by your ministry? To what extent is this control effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u131	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u132	I will give a few figures: in 2018, 184 foreign investment operations were registered, regardless of their admissibility, by the Treasury Directorate, under the IEF procedure – foreign investment in France – compared to 137 in 2017, 134 in 2016, 128 in 2015 and 105 in 2014: we are therefore witnessing a steady increase in controls. Approximately 15% of foreign direct investment in France is therefore dealt with under the control of the EFIs. The percentage of these investments originating in the European Union subject to regulation and monitored as such is generally stable over the period 2014-2018: it is around 50%. The main European investors are the United Kingdom and Germany. Outside the European Union, the main investors are the United States, Canada, Switzerland and Japan. As for the number of EFI applications received from Chinese investors, it has been broadly stable since 2015: its level is well below that of the four main countries I mentioned. I would also like to add that 45% of the applications processed concern sectors covered by the Decree of 14 May 2014 – they are therefore aimed at investment operations in the fields of energy, transport, telecommunications, water and public health; 35% of requests relate to national defence-related sectors; the remainder is shared between the sectors covered by the 2014 Decree and the defence. As for French direct investment abroad, it was largely up again in 2018, which means that we are also conquering: 61 billion euros of investments were made by France abroad in the first three quarters, compared to 50 billion the previous year, which is proof of the improvement in the business climate in France: this allows companies to accelerate their internationalisation. We need to look at the subject on both sides.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u133	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u134	We have already mentioned the lack of consistency in the Government's tax policy vis-à-vis enterprises. I am thinking, in particular, of going back and forth on the corporate tax rate, with a renunciation in a raven campaign, on the occasion of the GAFA bill. You do not want to apply to companies with more than 500 million turnover the reduction target you had planned to achieve, to keep this rate at 33%. Similarly, the President of the Republic announced at his press-river conference last week a reduction in tax niches for businesses. Can you tell us what niches are targeted? I imagine that it is not those who benefit from cultural and heritage patronage, at a time when we appeal to the generosity of companies to rebuild Notre-Dame de Paris. I imagine that this is not the research tax credit, either, that we need. This debate is of interest to all French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u135	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u136	I would like to recall the measures that the Government has taken in the area of corporate taxation because of their impact, since they have enabled the rebound of our productive growth, investment and employment over the past two years. The reduction in corporate tax is confirmed: the rate will be lowered to 25 per cent by 2022, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, even if the trajectory has been slightly changed. As you know, there was no betrayal. Moreover, neither the MEDEF – Mouvement des entreprises de France – nor the AFEP – Association française des entreprises privés – nor other representatives of the companies were particularly concerned: what interests them is the tax which concerns the higher share than the operating result, which is much more difficult to understand in the event of economic hazards. You mentioned the announcement by the President of the Republic of a 5 billion decrease in the IRPP – personal income tax – which will affect more than 2 million companies. Of course, these are mainly craft businesses and businesses, rather than industrial ones. This massive tax cut will, however, concern companies that are in the industrial and commercial profit or non-commercial profit regime, as you know as well as I do. As for the financing of these measures, it will be based first of all on the decline in public expenditure. It is not because the target of 120,000 public jobs is no longer intangible that the number of these jobs will not decrease. We are working in each administration to make the state more effective while maintaining its presence in the territories – an objective that leaves margins. Funding will also be based on working more, which is another way to balance public accounts. A review of tax niches will provide a third source of financing: it will be carried out in consultation with the companies concerned. This is the change in method announced by the President of the Republic: we are working in consultation with companies and their representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u137	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u138	Madam Secretary of State, with all due respect for you, let me tell you that you should have been Minister of Fisheries, because you are very strong at drowning fish. Goes for a chamber of citizens drawn by lot, but, so far, the French people are represented by elected representatives in the National Assembly and if the President of the Republic wants to open a debate on the reduction of taxes for French companies, it would not be inappropriate for this debate to take place also with the national representation. Let me turn to my second question. Nor did you reply earlier on the draft directive which has recently been agreed between the Council of the European Union, the European Commission and the European Parliament, now allowing the Member States to brandish a red light, i.e. to oppose the cross-border relocation of a company's or establishment's head office. This is a major development in relation to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The terms of the directive are not yet very precise: we are told that the measure would apply to transactions deemed to be abusive or fraudulent, aimed at circumventing national taxes or workers' rights and which would not be justified commercially or strategically. The subject is important. In my department, for example, the Finnish company Konecranes, which accounts for €3 billion in turnover and is doing very well, decided, for the sole purpose of improving the dividends paid to its shareholders, that it would ultimately be better to reduce the number of production sites and therefore removed from a feather a site which employs 150 employees. Such behaviour is now totally unacceptable and makes Europe hate when it lets this happen because of the free movement of capital. Madam Secretary of State, what position has the French Government given in the drafting of this directive? In what terms and according to what timetable do you intend to transpose it into domestic law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u139	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u140	First of all, I would like to point out that the Government is engaged in the fight against all forms of fiscal editing and optimisation, in two ways. First of all, because these practices have a direct impact on our public finances – as a rule, France is rather more so in terms of tax impact and it is therefore rather the tax of our country that we seek to escape. Secondly, and more generally, they induce, as you point out, unacceptable social consequences, which do not correspond to our vision of capitalism anchored in the market economy, but respect employees and stakeholders. [[Smile]] A directive aimed at providing practical and effective levers to prevent tax evasion without brutal decisions going in the direction we want, in both principal and operational terms. For the reasons I mentioned, in fact, it is rare for a company to want to set up a site in France to escape tax. I therefore see no reason why we should not continue to support such a directive, knowing that we are reaching the end of the work of the European Commission and that, as you know, the European Parliament has completed its work, so that several texts could thus remain in arrears. Furthermore, and in any event, we will be anxious to transpose this measure within appropriate time limits when it is finally adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u141	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u142	The debate that brings us together tonight is more than opportune. It is less than a month away from the European elections that will take place in our country on Sunday 26 May. The industry of our old continent remains a considerable economic sector, accounting for 52 million jobs and 50% of the EU's exports. However, we cannot content ourselves with these figures, which mask certain realities. On the contrary, we must seize the opportunity of the political renewal of our European institutions to transform in depth the industrial policy of our union. We must speed up its adaptation to the structural changes we are facing. These developments are numerous and pressing: technological and digital transformations, increased international competition, the emergence of new standards and the need to protect our social and environmental standards. Europe's economic prosperity will depend on its strength, its industrial base and our common ability to meet these challenges. However, we have recently been able to observe the obsolescence of certain European rules, such as those concerning competition. We cannot accept the decision of the European Commission to refuse the merger between Alstom and Siemens. The pretext that this rapprochement would harm competition in the rail sector within the European Union's internal market is not valid, because competition is now global. Elected in Toulouse, I cannot help but compare this situation with that of the European consortium Airbus, the flagship of our European aeronautics and space industry, which thrives precisely thanks to the union of almost all European manufacturers. We must therefore reform certain rules to encourage the emergence of European industrial champions capable of facing the world market and facing the Chinese and American giants. Could Airbus, created in the late 1960s, be born today? Madam Secretary of State, what measures does the government intend to propose in Brussels in the coming months to defend and promote our European industry?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u143	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u144	I thank you, Mr President, for this question, which allows me to go back to the different chapter heads of our programme for European industry. In the field of competition law, certain developments must make it possible to have less obsolete rules. The first of these developments is to take account of the real market in which the various players whose market shares we seek to calculate are operating. It is rare for this market to focus solely on Europe: it is very often international or even fully global. This is a first element, which makes it possible to put the reality of competition into perspective and to show that consumers would not be penalized by the rapprochement of two European groups. There would indeed be a paradox to allow a European actor to consolidate with an American or Chinese actor on the grounds that these markets would not be taken into account, and to prohibit a rapprochement between two European actors. Secondly, there is a need to assess the market dynamically, i.e. to anticipate the possible evolution of market shares as a result of future calls for tenders. This approach is quite illuminating for the rail market, where major markets are signed every six months, or even every twelve or eighteen months, so that only one market can change the weighting of market shares. On the other hand, the vitality of competition can be seen in the market itself. This is the case in the United Kingdom, which I mentioned, where there were seven candidates for the start-up of the tender and five on the final short list: there is real competition for trains in the United Kingdom. Thirdly, we can adopt treatment measures, whereby a company abandons part of its business to others in order to rebalance its market shares, but also measures of behaviour: if we see over the years that the behaviour of a company deprives the consumer of the advantage of a competitive market, we will block certain operations for the future. This approach, which is more flexible and fluid, allows us to adapt to the reality of market developments. Fourth, the concentration and application of competition rules should not only be seen in terms of their impact on consumers, but also on customers and employment, or other more cross-cutting considerations. That is something we want to promote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u145	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u146	On 22 November, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe selected 124 industrial territories, with €1 billion in funding and democratised and decentralized management. The sector Lacq-Pau-Tarbes profit from contracts with the State, the regions New Aquitaine and Occitanie, the metropolitan pole Pays de Béarn and the community of agglomeration Tarbes-Lourdes-Pyrénées. The communities of communes of Pays de Nay and Haute-Bigorre are associated. This process began five months ago: Madam Secretary of State, can you already give us some information on the evolution of this important project? Moreover, this sector is not the only one in this region which has a very strong industrial past, because it is also the case of the Oloron region and many others. It does not seem to me that we have taken the measure of the economic disaster in which we have all more or less participated over the last thirty years. France lost 500,000 companies in the 2000s, and we never got up to it. These companies have been relocated or brought into their capital American pension funds, then Kuwaitis and many others: we have indeed lost them, and among them many SMEs – I am thinking in particular of the North and East of France, which I had the honour of visiting during my tour of France. That's terrible! Why not embark on a single project where we would not compete with anyone: the new energy project of tomorrow – solar energy, for example, or tidal energy? France can do it. Let's not wait for actors from all over the world: let's go! We no longer have a penny in front of us, as we face social problems everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u147	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u148	Mr President, you are referring to the Lacq-Pau-Tarbes Industrial Territory contract signed on 25 March, which has the characteristic of involving two regions. It is one of the 30 pilot territories that we have accompanied as part of the Territory of Industry approach and that have brought us back 300 action sheets, which are divided into attractive projects – how to attract new activities to the territories in question? – innovation and simplification – because administrative simplification is also an issue – as well as skills-based projects. These projects are developed in the Territory of Industry contract, which you refer to, with a back-thinking, when it comes to innovation and attractiveness, the stakes of the ecological and energy transition. Others before you pointed out that Lacq had a past that focused on new forms of energy – I don't know by heart all the Industrial Territory contracts and don't want to say nonsense, but it seems to me that there is a hydrogen project in your territory. These cards will now be implemented and the contract can be supplemented by other action sheets over time and according to the needs that will arise. I repeat: the Territory of Industry contract is an instrument that is intended to be simple, agile and fluid, to bring together all the stakeholders around the table and to allow industrial employment to be recreated through an approach that starts from the ground. Gradually, by creating virtuous circles, the more activities you will bring in, and the more activities you will encourage. The more you create an area with new skills, the easier it will be to attract new ones. This is the whole stake we see behind this device.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u149	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u150	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u151	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u152	The next item is the debate on the information report of the Public Policy Review and Control Committee on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear the rapporteurs of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, the speakers of the groups, and then the Government. We will then conduct a question-and-answer session. Mr Ugo Bernalicis, rapporteur of the Evaluation and Monitoring Committee for Public Policy, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u153	My colleague Jacques Maire, who will succeed me in this forum, and I myself have drawn up a report on the means used by the State to combat financial crime. I am pleased to have achieved a score of two out of three this afternoon; Two ministries responded to the appeal – justice, on the one hand, the economy and finance, on the other. Missing the Ministry of the Interior, but as the Government is united, I am sure you will be able to speak with Mr Castaner. As indicated in our report, the issue of inter-ministeriality is central to the fight against financial crime. There are ways, even if they are insufficient – we will have to invest to bring money into the state's coffers. In fact, I heard the President of the Republic say in his press conference that the abolition of 120,000 civil servants was no longer a totem: it is a good thing! If we can hire them, it'll be good news. The stakes involved do not only concern the criminal philosophy – even if the perpetrators of fraud, criminals, criminals must naturally be tried – or the public finances – even if the missing money must enter the state's coffers. Social cohesion is also at issue, because the impunity, real or supposed, of white-collar offenders tends to discredit the idea of justice when, at the same time, the tax administration and the criminal judge are very firm towards the Lambda offender. We have daily illustrations – so a multi-recidivist pasta theft in a supermarket will end up in prison when, on the other hand, judicial agreements of public interest are drawn up for fraudsters, I would say worthy of this name, drawn four pins, who have to their credit scams of several million euros. I invite you to read our evaluation report, including the 25 proposals – including the conduct of an interdepartmental policy, which I mentioned – all deserve your attention. From the outset, we encountered a difficulty in establishing the figure of financial crime – which I personally do not know. The assessment by trade unions on tax evasion and fraud, estimated at between €80 billion and €100 billion, is increasingly challenged by the Government and a few experts. I think you're right, and that amount is undervalued. In fact, financial crime covers an extremely wide spectrum, which includes credit card scams, on the Internet – a fake site sells you a bogus service for 50 or 100 euros, which you will never see again – the infringement of probity, the corruption of public officials, foreign or national, or, to name but a few examples, the more traditional and traditional laundering activity in the field of drug trafficking. The amount that the State must recover is therefore likely to exceed 100 billion. In the context of the current debates and the movement of yellow vests, it should be recalled that there is money, including money that is subtracted by financial crime, at constant law. I do not mention, here, a different sharing of wealth – an issue that I could legitimately raise; I limit my speech to the money that should go into the state coffers. Among the important proposals we make, one concerns whistleblowers. We note that it is currently difficult to be a whistleblower, although we have passed legislation to give these people a status and protect them. A European debate has taken place, which you will be able to tell us about, Madam Minister of Justice, since you have conducted negotiations on behalf of France. When informing the chain of command, whistleblowers are expected to receive financial assistance, but this measure remains unimplemented, as the Constitutional Council's censorship has not given rise to any corrective provisions. We therefore propose to "re-establish the principle of financial assistance for the benefit of whistleblowers in difficulty, supplemented by the possibility of easy access to public employment". In fact, whistleblowers often do not find work, especially in their industry – which is easy to understand – while they may be useful to society and the state. There is a need to increase the number of specialized police services, tax control and the national financial prosecutor's office. The latter counts only eighteen magistrates – I say eighteen! It was expected that each of them would deal with only eight cases: we are thirty-two. This prosecutor's office, which is one of the best-functioning ones, is plagued by thrombosis; he almost no longer takes a new investigation, no longer takes the initiative to open one. That's where we got it! When he asked for the recruitment of two specialized assistants, he was told that he was asking for the Moon. It's not serious! Millions are expected to rain on such services, as they bring more. With regard to VAT, we have discussed the issue of split payment to recover at least part of the 18-20 billion annual fraud. This seems to us to be an extremely important issue. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] What about the return by Société Générale of the 2.2 billion that we left him so quickly in the Kerviel case? It is more difficult to return them than to cash them, even if a timeline has been defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u154	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Consideration may need to be given to the application of infiltration techniques in financial crime circles, which is not currently being done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u156	Mr Jacques Maire, rapporteur of the Committee for the Evaluation and Monitoring of Public Policies, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u157	I agree, of course, with everything that has been said by my excellent co-rapporteur, Ugo Bernalicis. Financial crime causes many victims, which can be estimated, as an illustration and not as a demonstration, at nearly 2 million per year. In 2017, alone, 1.2 million people were taken out of the country by means of payment fraud alone, amounting to €744 million. It extends at high speed: it grew by 23% between 2013 and 2018. The State is obviously the first loser; It suffers, Ugo Bernalicis said, a VAT fraud amounting to about 20 billion euros a year. Combating this scourge is very difficult, because victims often lose small amounts, which does not motivate the filing of a complaint. In addition, investigations are lengthy and require qualified staff. Of course, society places much more emphasis on attacks on individuals than on small financial attacks. We must therefore make use of these channels within the investigative services and the courts, by means of various measures which I do not have time to detail. Over the past ten years, progress has been made. The public authorities have set up structures such as the national financial prosecutor's office, already mentioned, or the French Anti-Corruption Agency, but they treat the top of the spectrum. While it is to be welcomed that these complex and mediated cases are being dealt with, which avoids any denial of justice, the system is on the brink of asphyxiation, as you said, and hundreds of thousands of small cases go through the trap. The risk of a denial of justice is therefore real for petty financial crime. We must therefore go further and adopt structural measures. We can mention, for example, the study of the split payment, on which I will not return. More generally, it is necessary to be able to accompany and supervise innovations, as they are often exploited. Any innovation gives rise to a deregulated space that is conducive to all traffic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u158	The first step is to introduce regulation among the professionals themselves. BNP Paribas spends 660 million euros per year on compliance; Another figure, the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the ACPR – calls for a freeze of EUR 18 billion per year in the balance sheets to manage operational risk. Despite the non-existence of the right to error, fraud continues. How can we deal with the remaining weaknesses? The professions of the figure are somewhat too weakly mobilized, but we must also monitor each market that is being created. We propose mandatory monitoring of crypto-assets and cryptocurrency exchange platforms, as proposed by the Financial Action Group – FATF. The CAPTE law does not actually go beyond voluntary registration, so that it will be necessary to quickly go beyond this first step. In terms of prevention, the most important measure is the deployment of the public digital identity system for all online financial services. Identity usurpation, which is one of the most important problems, concerns us all one day or the other. After the session, I can give you, if you wish, a fast course of half an hour to teach you how to cheat; Indeed, three clicks are enough to fraud without great risk with the major online platforms, including banking and leasing. It is also necessary to strengthen the status of whistleblower: while Stéphanie Gibaud, former UBS employee, finds himself unemployed and lives on social minima, Bradley Birkenfeld was able to receive $75 million in commission. We do not think there is a need for an American bounty hunter system that does not fit our culture, but it should be possible to provide opportunities and integrate into the public service the limited number of people who, like hackers, have interesting skills. It is important to strike the portfolio with dissuasive sanctions. The establishment of the Agency for the Management and Recovery of Seized and Confiscated Assets – AGRASC – under the supervision of the Ministries of Justice and Budget has been a step forward, but the sale of assets remains extremely disappointing. We propose two measures for automobiles and real estate, the two main assets that are easy to capture: the creation of a shared database to trace seized assets and the creation of a specific legal regime for disposals of state real property, distinct from that of the general code of ownership of public persons, in order to facilitate sales. We also thought of a measure on the automobile, which I will only expose to you in one-on-one. Finally, the recent judicial agreement in the public interest, although perfectable, improves recovery. In a few months, two first CJIPs were signed, via the national financial prosecutor's office, with HSBC and Société Générale: they brought back more than 500 million euros to the French state for corruption and fraud cases. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, the challenge is considerable: financial crime is growing sharply, and the sword is faster than the shield. But, good news, Secretary of State of Bercy, the fight against financial crime is a profitable activity for the state, because offenders are solvent and seizable assets. This therefore justifies putting the means into it, which are too small today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u159	Very good speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u160	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u161	Today we are looking at the excellent report by our colleagues Ugo Bernalicis and Jacques Maire, which evaluates the fight against financial crime. This debate concerns one of the main concerns of the French. It is salutary and falls at peak: a few days ago, the Paris Administrative Court of Appeal cancelled Google's tax debt. With this decision, the amount of more than 1 billion euros that Google owes to our homeland lies between our fingers! I'm trying to figure out why the government was beaten by Google. At first instance, the court had already ruled in favour of the multinational, which would not have to declare its profits in France, since its Irish subsidiary sold the advertising on the French market. The Minister of Action and Public Accounts appealed this decision, but without changing the law, it was impossible to charge Google for its profits made in France! Unfortunately, Google is far from the only multinational that lootes the state. I shall speak at length here about the case of McDonald's, as it illustrates very well the two problems we face in the area of financial crime: a glaring laxity towards these delinquent companies and a bleed in the means allocated to fiscal control and justice. A tax investigation was opened in France on McDonald's in 2013, Bercy suspecting the multinational to artificially reduce its profits through royalties paid to its parent company in Luxembourg. The first search at the station's headquarters did not produce any results. In 2016, the National Financial Prosecutor's Office opened a preliminary investigation after Ms.Eva Joly filed a complaint for "Laundering organised tax fraud". The second search at McDonald's headquarters also failed to bring any euro back into the coffers. Since 2013, the European Commission has had time to open an investigation and to conclude that McDonald's subsidiary in charge of collecting royalties for the whole of Europe had not paid – listen! – no income tax, no more in Luxembourg than in the United States. In December 2016, less than a year after the opening of the European Commission's investigation and after the referendum for the UK's exit from the European Union, McDonald's announced that it would move its tax residence from Luxembourg to the United Kingdom. It is a return to sources for McDonald's, which already had its tax base in that country before moving it to Luxembourg and Switzerland in 2009. In terms of financial crime and bad odors of burgers, these people have no borders. This move is also coming a few months after Luxembourg announced that it would want to revise the tax treaty with the United States, on which McDonald's had relied to achieve double non-taxation of its profits. Since 2013, McDonald's is also the only company to have been interviewed three times by the European Parliament's committees of inquiry on tax evasion; The group is also mentioned in the report of the TAX3 Committee, adopted by our fellow MEPs on 26 March. McDonald's is a hiding thief. Meanwhile, he also earns money by renting real estate. We know his slogan: "Come as you are". Unless you're a trade unionist, we could add! Indeed, the company hides behind franchises to better demolish the rights of employees, such as those of the McDonald's of Saint-Barthélémy, in the northern districts of Marseilles. One of them, Kamel, tried in 2018 to immolate himself by fire to denounce the bad manners of McDonald's. I think you saw like me the film En guerre, in which Vincent Lindon plays the role of a trade unionist who immolates himself by fire. Kamel has just tried to immolate himself, but these scenes are really taking place in our country, with the violence of multinationals going beyond television screens. Today, six years later, McDonald's is still not really worried in France and could quite conclude a judicial agreement in the public interest, in order to avoid a trial, because he has the financial means to do so. These judicial agreements in the public interest and the systems of "advocating guilty" are a real burden in our judicial and fiscal system, as they encourage the state to go over the sponge in exchange for an alms from multinationals. A few years ago, HSBC paid a fine far less than its tax debt. According to the newspaper Les Échos, UBS bank refused a CJIP, whereas the amount claimed by the PNF was only 2 billion euros, which was considered too high. For once, their attitude has cost them dearly, since the correctional court has just sentenced UBS to a record fine of 4.5 billion euros, more than twice as much! We must therefore crack down and stop dealing with these offenders. The result is this: you have certainly multiplied the laws – the anti-fraud law of 23 October 2018 or the draft law for the creation of a digital services tax – but, let's say very clearly, they are not up to it. However, we made proposals during the review of the finance bill and your digital services tax or GAFA tax bill, which you refused. You have again rejected an amendment aimed at taxing the profit actually realized in France, by obliging companies to declare the profits of their subsidiaries country by country. All you have to do is think about the McDonald's case that I have just outlined, it would have been much more effective than your measures. This amendment, which has been proposed and voted for several years in the Senate with no votes against, was largely transparant, but, again, your Government has refused to listen, which I regret. You have multiplied inefficient legislation and tried to bring down unnecessary maps against these rogue practices. Perhaps because you have not understood or want to see this: against multinationals, you can revive the dice as many times as you want, you never win the game if you do not change the rules of the game they abuse. In the face of multinationals with the best specialists at their service, the glaring lack of human resources allocated to the fight against tax evasion by the state pushes justice to the easy solution of the CJIPs, which does not respond in any way to the demand for tax justice of our fellow citizens. It is therefore necessary to recruit massively in the tax control services, in the national financial prosecutor's office and in the financial courts to track down these offenders. The report shows a massive and steady decline in the resources allocated to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. Between 2009 and 2016, the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Finance decreased by 17 per cent, a decrease of 2000 staff each year. Regrettably, the Government should speed up this process in the context of the future reform of the civil service: the Head of State suggested that he was renouncing the target of 120,000 posts of abolished civil servants, including 55,000 in the State civil service, but that was only an eventuality. On the other hand, it is known that the non-replacement of one out of every two retiring public servants remains more relevant than ever. As for the National Financial Prosecutor's Office, it is so engorged that the average duration of an investigation is currently between six and eight years. In addition to filling the missing positions, it is essential to strengthen the law enforcement arsenal against offenders. In this area, we have several proposals to submit to you. First, a credible and comprehensive list of tax havens should be drawn up. The European Parliament has adopted a report recognizing that Ireland, Malta, Cyprus, the Netherlands and Belgium are in the process of doing so: these countries should be punished accordingly. Secondly, the amicable mechanisms of negotiation, namely the judicial convention in the public interest, must be abolished and pleaded guilty. There is also a need to establish a common database for the various services that fight against financial crime and to protect whistleblowers. One must go towards a universal tax or, at the very least, a differential tax, a system which obliges taxpayers leaving abroad for reasons of optimisation or tax evasion to pay the difference between their tax and that which they should pay in France. Finally, we have to review or leave the European treaties that are a gift for tax dumping, leading to an ever-increasing so-called tax burden, on which companies like McDonald's play. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In essence, to the multinationals that rob us every day, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, we must say: "Not today! "Not today! "Never again! " They are at war against the general interest: let us not leave them the iron throne on which they are installed. Let's put an end to the impunity of organized robbers! It is a matter of tax justice, dignity and justice for those who fight against these giants. We need more than ever to allocate resources to the ecological transition: let them not go in smoke for the benefit of a few!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u162	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u163	First of all, allow me to thank our colleagues for bringing the treatment of financial crime to the agenda of our House. The report of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee sheds light on the enormous work we are facing in this area, and makes some suggestions that we consider interesting. Yes, this report is illuminating, as we learn that the former budget minister Cahuzac, sentenced to two years in prison for tax evasion, saw his request for a sentence passed a few days ago! Finally, he won't go through the prison box! In view of the facts and the conviction, we thought we would finally see a well-known tax fraudster – a former minister who lied to national representation and to our fellow citizens – behind bars. Well, no! It won't be this time! Whether we like it or not, it must be noted that economic and financial crime in our country is still not treated to the extent of the damage it inflicts on society. From one society to another, the differences are notable. Thus, Mr. Cahuzac did not have the same treatment as Mr. Carlos Ghosn in Japan. Beyond this example, France is not entirely up to the challenge. Admittedly, the proliferation of scandals in recent years has allowed and accelerated legislative developments. However, these cases revealed only the tip of the iceberg. Economic crime continues to occur before our eyes, as evidenced by the astronomical figures of tax evasion and evasion. And one still refuses to take measures of magnitude, as if, in the end, fraud of the tax, cheating on stock exchanges or stinging in the cash register was not so serious – because the harm caused would be diffuse and without direct physical victim, contrary to a burglary or physical assault. This form of tolerance and double standards are no longer acceptable. They are no longer accepted by our fellow citizens, who have placed the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion – and more generally the exemplary treatment of any form of economic crime – at the top of their political priorities. We must therefore start a substantive work – which can be trans-partisan – in order to draw up a framework law to combat economic and financial crime. Let us define a high level of standards, inspired by the most advanced foreign practices, in order to catch up and put our country at the forefront! As the NGO Transparency International points out every year, France, in the fight against corruption, remains far behind the Scandinavian countries. We are only twenty-first in the rankings. So there is still a long way to go. To reach a level, no matter what you say, you have to give yourself the human and financial means. The report recalls this on several occasions. Means to the tax administration and customs! Their numbers have melted for more than 15 years, reducing our strength. However, these posts earn more than they cost. Let's reverse the curve and invest! Judicially, the resources of the National Financial Prosecutor's Office must be increased. He became an indispensable actor and was threatened with congestion, a victim of his success. Let's also invest. A real review of the laws adopted in recent years will have to be made, particularly with regard to their effects on the mechanisms – symbol of the justice of the rich – allowing companies who commit acts of corruption or fraud to escape a conviction in exchange for a large cheque. The same applies to the status of whistleblowers. The consequences of the deficiencies identified during the drafting of the Sapin 2 Act have been verified. For example, internal reporting channels are insufficiently protective to be effective. However, whistleblowers take major risks. They must be better protected and accompanied, especially financially, so that they can continue to live properly. Clearly, the fight against economic crime must be an ongoing struggle. In many cases, this is the illustration of this financial capitalism without a state of soul, disregarding the general interest. The people must take their hands. We propose that the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion be declared a major national cause in 2020. We call for the mobilization of all actors – state, local authorities, businesses, trade unions, NGOs, associations and the media – to counter this scourge. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] That would put economic crime at the heart of public debate in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u164	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u165	As Frédéric Ozanam wrote in 1836, "often fraud is preceded by a ghost of loyalty." In other words, fraud is above all a moral mistake. The figures remain edifying. In 2018, nearly 409000 economic and financial offences and scams of all kinds were registered, according to the excellent report of our colleagues Ugo Bernalicis and Jacques Maire. I salute their work, which is of high quality. It honours our Parliament, because it puts words on what seems abstract and distant to many. In recent years, this multi-faceted crime has continued to grow, both in terms of the complexity of scaffolded patterns – which makes it difficult to work in figures – and in terms of the burden on public finances. Thus, there are no firm, precise and comprehensive figures, even if all experts agree that the losses caused by tax evasion alone – which is only one category of this crime – would amount to between €80 billion and €100 billion per year. This loss of profits accounts for almost 6 per cent of our country's public spending. This would finance the construction of more than 20,000 schools or more than 300 hospitals. It is not demagogy to say it. This is the relationship between economic and financial crime, on the one hand, and what it would represent in our budget, on the other. This amount is considerable, reported for example – I am particularly affected by this – to the budget of the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger, if we remember that it was punctured in 2017 of 33 million euros – out of an allocation of 380 million – at the risk of endangering the model of our French schools around the world. Madam Minister, you will agree: if we compare these 33 million euros to the 100 billion euros that faint each year in nature, it is very little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u167	One hundred billion euros a year is also the global target set by the Paris Agreement on combating climate change. Therefore, for every citizen – and even more so for the French in the world – the fight against tax fraud is an imperative, not only economic and social, but also political. Indeed, in the name of what could some avoid their obligations to the nation and, ultimately, to the Republic itself? This crime runs counter to the principles of our right, in particular equality and, in particular, equality before public office. If the political discourse held on all the benches of this House is always very voluntarist, we can see that the resources invested remain ridiculous. Services to combat these forms of crime are being seized, particularly as a result of the reduction in the technical and human resources of the administration. For example, the report indicates that the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Finance decreased by 17 per cent between 2009 and 2016, a decrease of 2000 officers per year, and that the eighteen judges of the National Financial Prosecutor's Office, each of whom is expected to deal with eight highly complex cases, actually dealt with thirty-two cases, four times more than originally planned. This is compounded by a lack of coordination between the ministries concerned. In these circumstances, how can we ensure that controls are effective? We agree with the report. He evokes a quote from sociologist Michel Crozier: "When we face tomorrow's problems with yesterday's organizations, we reap the dramas of today." So what solutions should we provide? Some are relatively simple to implement, including the expansion of the specialized financial police services and the national financial prosecutor's office, to which we fully adhere. It is vital to organise the strengthening of the services concerned while promoting the exchange of information between them. Moreover, at supranational level, it is necessary to move to a higher speed and to envisage the creation of a European procedure for tax control. The proliferation in recent years of disclosures of tax evasion practices by well-known personalities and businesses has had the effect of exacerbating a sense of misunderstanding and rejection of tax injustice among citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The strong expectations of our fellow citizens call for a strong response. This is the duty of the Government and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u168	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u169	Today's debate concerns the information report of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime. This topic echoes current debates on tax and social justice aimed at making the fight against all forms of fraud and financial crime more effective. The observation is clear: financial crime is a phenomenon of magnitude, against which the fight is intensifying and becoming more complex since the outbreak of financial scandals in recent years. The revelation, in the eyes of all, of the impunity enjoyed by white-collar offenders has raised a need for equality before the courts in French society, which the legislator has dealt with since 2013. The report's assessment is hardly encouraging. The efforts made and the resources allocated are struggling to counter multi-faceted, heterogeneous crime, with a worrying increase. The number of scams and economic and financial offences registered in 2018 is alarming. It reflects a rampant increase in fraud and abuse of trust, as well as VAT fraud and more generally tax evasion. Indeed, the number of fraud and abuse of trust has increased by 24% over five years. A significant part of this increase is due to fraud of means of payment. The steady growth of these offences has resulted in an increasing number of victims. However, only one scam in seven is reported. Too often, victims refrain from filing a complaint because of the small amount stolen. For example, online transactions are the ideal playing field for scammers, who develop their adaptability and ingenuity in the use of new technologies. The report's proposal to allow for an online complaint for online scams seems to us to be a step in the right direction. Such a measure is likely to improve the identification of victims. However, the difficulty in identifying fraud victims stems from a deeper problem. Indeed, the very definition of offences involving financial crime seems too imprecise to provide a clear view of the phenomenon. Moreover, the report shows that the State is not in a position to give figures, in the absence of a precise census of the number of offences committed. The implementation of an inter-ministerial policy, including the creation of a shared system of statistical measurement and monitoring, seems to be a necessary solution, which will have to be undertaken over several years, in order to remedy the lack of coordination between the ministries concerned. Moreover, the detection of offences involving financial crime depends largely on the unequal participation of private actors. Of course, reports of suspicion are growing, thanks in particular to the assistance of credit institutions and insurance companies. However, TRACFIN indicates that their quality is not always sufficient to effectively detect violations. As is often the case, harmonisation and simplification of reporting procedures for all professions would make it possible to broaden the range of checks carried out by independent public authorities and ultimately to improve the detection of infringements. As regards the resources allocated to the fight against financial crime, you deplore their inadequacy, rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u170	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u171	It was commendable to propose an increase in the number of specialized police officers and in some jurisdictions, such as the National Financial Prosecutor's Office. Since 2013, the number of cases handled by the Court has been increasing steadily. Currently, 508 procedures are under way. Each magistrate has to deal with thirty-two cases, even though the impact assessment provided for eight. Other national services, such as the Directorate-General for Public Finance, also suffer from a shortage of staff. This lack of resources and staffing is compounded by the very complexity of the different service strata created by the legislator and the excessive slowness of the justice system. The economic and financial police services are facing a crisis of vocations, and one can understand the loss of motivation in the face of work overload and lack of coordination. In addition, the proceedings are extended to reach an average trial time of six years! The principles of speed of justice and reasonable time are not respected, while, in the face of financial crime, it is justified to go as quickly as possible. Our country is still faced with a cumbersome procedure. This subject deserves our full attention today. I hope that this report will lead to a marked improvement in the fight against financial crime; This requires political will and action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u173	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u174	I would like to begin by thanking the Group of the European People's Party, which is the source of this report and of this monitoring session, as well as the two rapporteurs, Ugo Bernalicis and Jacques Maire, for this very timely report, which is particularly comprehensive and informative. I would like to stress the need to combat VAT fraud. I will then extend my remarks to the need to change our institutions, to define tax fraud better, or to fight better at European level, in particular by supplementing the list of non-cooperative countries. The fight against financial crime, and more broadly the fight against fraud, are regularly at the heart of our discussions. Yet, we do not act sufficiently against this betrayal, against this prank in our Republican pact. Financial crime undermines tax fairness, which is essential to the balance of our social model. Financial crime grew by 24% between 2012 and 2016, in just four years! The loss of revenue from VAT-related revenues, in particular, was estimated by the European Commission to be EUR 147 billion in 2016 alone. We must not allow this fraud to flourish with impunity. In order to combat this scourge, last autumn we strengthened our legislative arsenal. This is a first step: the measures we have voted for will make it possible to combat tax fraud and financial crime more effectively. Let us not forget that an effective fight against fraud requires a powerful coordination of national action, and beyond European and even international action. Fraudsters are playing at borders: the words of our colleagues have shown, the arrangements are easy, the borders are crossed. But to infer that nothing should be done at national level would be a mistake! It is also the meaning of the Anti-Fraud Act, which includes national measures; At the same time, the Government continues to seek at least European, and ideally international, coordination. The action of the European Union should be welcomed in this regard. The fight against fraud has been at the heart of European policies for several years. While these may still be perfect, the measures taken in recent years are in the direction of greater tax justice. The European list of tax havens thus makes it possible to punish those States which refuse to remedy their shortcomings; It is not perfect: just look at its composition to see gaps. Some of the advances include the European Directive of 20 December 2018, which allows the testing of a general reverse charge mechanism for the supply of goods and services, in order to better combat the fraud of so-called "carousel" VAT. It is necessary to adapt the means of the State to combat a financial crime that is evolving very rapidly; Its IT tools, as well as its international circuits, are constantly changing. The delays in the production of legislation mean that we often have one, two, or even three trains of delay on offenders. We must also better measure this type of fraud. While this quantification cannot, of course, be exhaustive, we certainly have a very large margin of progress. While evaluation is now at the heart of public action, the imprecision of the definition of financial crime is harmful; In particular, it results in statistical shortcomings which hinder a good assessment of the phenomenon and consequently the adoption of an appropriate policy to combat it. Financial crime is characterized by massive litigation, making it necessary to ensure that the means of our justice are adequate to deal with cases within a more reasonable period of time. The law on programming and reform of the justice system must make it possible to correct these shortcomings. Finally, in line with the work begun by the Anti-Fraud Act, which provides for new sanctions for intermediaries, the sanctions regime must be adapted and strengthened, taking into account, inter alia, the evolution of fraud methods. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the current period, when the French complete their tax returns, we see an increase in the number of e-mails that push for fraud. These are unspeakable scams: let us have the reflex to report them, because it is also on a daily basis that we must fight fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u175	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u176	I too would like to thank the co-rapporteurs Ugo Bernalicis and Jacques Maire for their valuable work on this issue of financial crime; We have already discussed their excellent report at an evaluation and monitoring committee meeting a few weeks ago. It clarifies certain points, thus helping to combat perceived ideas about financial crime, including fiscal crime. The figures speak for themselves: what is known as social fraud in 2017 was EUR 1.29 billion, when a number of public finance unions estimated that tax fraud amounted to around EUR 100 billion in 2018, an increase of 20 billion since 2013. Moreover, according to a report by the European Commission published in September 2018, VAT fraud amounted to around €20 billion. These figures are interesting in several ways. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Thus, the President of the Republic, instead of scornfully criticizing the "crazy money" devoted to social minima, should instead attack tax fraudsters, because that is where the loss of profits is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u177	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u178	As for the Minister of Public Accounts, he should know that if he really addressed tax evasion and tax avoidance strategies, our public finances would be much healthier; This would greatly improve our room for manoeuvre, so we could better redistribute – remember that the budget deficit is estimated at 37 billion euros in February 2019. It must be noted that political voluntarism has been lacking on this issue of fiscal crime since the beginning of this quinquennium. First of all, Mr Secretary of State, we must ask ourselves about the means allocated to administrations to stem this phenomenon, against the background of the abolition of 120,000 posts of civil servants by 2022. As pointed out in the report by Messrs. Bernalicis and Mayor, between 2009 and 2016 the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Finance have already decreased by 17%, or 2000 agents, per year. And this decline continues! Is it "tenable", as the President of the Republic would say? The continuation of this logic of downsizing the tax administration weakens the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud. To make the impact of this lack of resources more concrete, it is enough to follow the example of the national financial prosecutor's office – following the report. The eighteen judges who make up it are expected to hear eight highly complex cases each; In fact, they manage thirty-two of them, four times more than originally planned. However, since its creation in 2014, the National Financial Prosecutor's Office has allowed the public treasury to cash more than 2 billion euros. One can imagine that with more means the sums collected would be greater. Your report also contains a number of proposals to better organize the administration. Let me simply doubt your chances of achieving your proposals number 16 – increasing the number of specialized police services" – and number 18 – "increasing and diversifying the number of national financial prosecutors" – in a context of a massive decline in the number of civil servants. Beyond the question of means, I wanted to address the issue of launchers alerting. Your proposal number 8 is to "re-establish the principle of financial assistance for the benefit of whistleblowers in difficulty, supplemented by the possibility of easy access to public employment". Here too, I wonder about the political coherence of the executive. While the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union have just agreed on the first directive setting up a legal framework to defend the whistleblowers of their employers' reprisals, the French government has tried to empty it of its substance, in particular by trying to oblige the whistleblower to inform its organisation internally, failing which any protection would subsequently be refused. And the Government is hypocritical: sheltering behind the famous Sapin 2 law, it refuses to compensate whistleblowers, but it sets up in parallel a mechanism paying the "tax advisers", a mechanism contained in the recent law against tax fraud. In other words, tax whistleblowers are now referred to as tax advisers; they are not "paid", but "indemnified". No one knows how much they cost, or how much they pay: curiously, the administration refuses to communicate any number. This session is a monitoring session of the Government: perhaps the Government could use it to provide us with accurate information so that Parliament is fully informed. Today, revenues are increasing for the State, but they are decreasing for those who make it possible to recover them and who take all the risks: down from the stated objective of protecting whistleblowers, the Government does not encourage these citizens' behaviour. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Allocating ambitious resources to the fight against tax fraud would make it possible to clean up our public finances but also to send a positive signal of national solidarity and social cohesion. To that end, the Government must show common sense and renounce hypocrisy: the administration must have sufficient resources, and whistleblowers must be genuinely protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u179	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u180	I too would like to acknowledge the work done by our colleagues Jacques Maire and Ugo Bernalicis, authors of this report on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime for the evaluation and monitoring committee on public policies. We broadly support this evaluation work, which I would like to mention here a few main points. This infinitely meticulous work reveals the actions of the various services fighting against all forms of financial crime, from fraud to forgery in writing, from tax fraud and its laundering to phishing mechanisms. White-collar crime is varied, and increasingly complex, with financial flows very easily relocated outside our borders. The fight against financial fraud goes beyond our political divisions, because financial crime is causing considerable damage. This scourge undermines the confidence of our fellow citizens in our financial system and can cause human tragedy. It undermines our social pact. It's eating away our public resources. In its fiscal and customs form, it distorts competition. The report by our colleagues sets out this great diversity, as well as all the actions taken by the legislator, the administrative services and the judiciary to prevent and counter fraud. This work then draws up a list of 25 recommendations, which will provide useful input and stimulate public action in the coming months. This report is also a milestone in what our majority has done on this subject. Since the beginning of our mandate, together with the Government and the President of the Republic, our parliamentary group has made a substantial effort to combat fraud more effectively. I am thinking in particular of the anti-fraud law of October 2018, which created new tools to combat tax and customs fraud and lifted Bercy's age-old lock.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u181	The opposition voted for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u182	Not all the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u183	This shows that the fight against fraud goes beyond division... The report on the implementation of the latter text, of which I have been appointed rapporteur, will help to monitor the first effects of this law. This report from the evaluation and oversight committee allows us to say that we, as national representatives, need to see more clearly. One of the first contributions of our majority was the adoption of a cross-cutting policy document dedicated to the fight against fraud and tax evasion, a document which the evaluation committee's rapporteurs wish to extend to all financial crime. The rapporteurs also want an interdepartmental delegation with enhanced powers to tackle all types of fraud across borders. The sacralisation of the staff of tax control agents, I would remind you, must be effective. It will have to be reinforced by the tools – big data and artificial intelligence – that Bercy is putting in place, and certainly not replaced by these new technologies. In order to see more clearly in the area of inter-ministeriality, the rapporteurs of the evaluation committee ask for more legible, better-valued careers, with more common prerogatives and protections for officials of all public services fighting fraud. I particularly welcome what has been proposed in this direction, even if we can add to it the development of common bases for initial and continuing training of personnel in this field. I repeat, interministeriality is the key to the success of the fight against fraud. The report also proposes to increase the seizure of property in the area of economic crime. It's a real subject. While we do not doubt Bercy's effectiveness in recovering his debts, it is imperative that the legal standards of all departments be drawn towards greater efficiency. The effectiveness of financial justice is at stake. For poorly acquired property, as well as for the enforcement of fines or the seizure of property, we need mechanisms that ensure that what has been pronounced by the justice system is really enforced, both in France and outside our borders. This evaluation committee report is therefore a clear stimulator of our future work. Parliament must play its role as an assessor, alongside all the institutions. As the President of the Republic has said, our Court of Auditors, already very committed to the apprehension of economic fraud, will also provide its diagnostics and solutions. I would point out that the law already prescribes annual parliamentary debates on the two lists of tax havens and on repressive policy through the action of the commission of fiscal offences. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would like to pay tribute to all the agents who are fighting against financial crime today. I would particularly like to welcome Mrs Éliane Houlette, who has completed her last months as head of the national financial prosecutor's office, as well as the no less large investigating judge, Mr Renaud Van Ruymbeke, who has also been admitted to retirement. Before promising new ways of fighting fraud, it is now necessary to pay tribute to those who have given a great deal, together with all their teams, to strengthen the fight against financial crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u184	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the extremely rich and interesting debate that has just begun this evening. It addresses a topic of particular importance to the Government, the Ministry of Public Action and Accounts, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. As has been done on many occasions, I would like first of all to welcome the work done by the two rapporteurs, Mr Bernalicis and Mr Maire. In their information report on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime, they drew up a comprehensive assessment of the action taken by the public authorities and made 25 proposals to improve the fight against financial crime, proposals which, at least for some of them, seem to me to be very rich. Financial crime, as you all know, takes on many faces. As you have pointed out, it is first of all a crime of everyday life, that of fraud of means of payment, often coupled with identity theft. It also leads to a very high level of financial crime, the ramifications of which are often very complex to dismantle. It also translates into crime that involves public decision-makers – I am thinking of misappropriation of public funds, corruption and other attacks on public probity – and that appears intolerable to the French and weakens our democratic system. Tax fraud, finally, offers another face of this crime. As we have seen in the great national debate, it feeds a powerful sense of fiscal injustice. This reality of tax evasion or excessive tax optimisation is ruining tax membership. All these acts are now perceived in a very negative way. Financial crime is indeed a scourge that undermines the social pact – Mr Bernalicis rightly referred to "social cohesion". On this subject, our fellow citizens have extremely strong expectations for the services of the State or the judiciary. The fight against white-collar crime is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Justice. As you know, in 2013 and 2017, two major laws renovated the transparency of public life and confidence in political life, and designed the framework for our action. The Ministry of Justice is fully committed to this. The fight against breaches of probity was one of the four main priorities for action set out in the general circular on criminal policy, which I sent on 21 March 2018 to the public prosecutors and prosecutors of the Republic. I therefore intend to carry out a very voluntary criminal policy, through a mechanism that has been substantially overhauled since 2013, with the emphasis on the specialisation of actors, the increase in sanctions and the widening of the possibilities of incriminating and prosecuting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u186	And means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u187	In 2013, our country established a High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – HATVP. Its creation has been accompanied by the establishment of a comprehensive system comprising not only declaratory obligations of heritage and interests, especially for all national elected officials and the main decision-makers of the executive,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u188	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u189	...but also new offences punishing breaches of these declaratory obligations, a power of injunction and a right of communication. These provisions are fully enshrined in the competences of HATVP, which is now one of the key elements of the French institutional landscape. Since its inception, the Court has transmitted 73 cases to the judicial authority. Since 2014, the national financial prosecutor's office has also established itself in the national and international landscape as a major player in the fight against economic and financial crime. Today, the PNF deals with 507 complex and sensitive probity infringement and tax fraud procedures, which require collaboration with specialized and well-equipped investigative services as well as with foreign judicial authorities and administrations, including the tax administration. The laws of 15 September 2017 for confidence in political life have reinforced the requirements in this regard. They have imposed new prohibitions on parliamentarians and executive officials in the area of family employment. They have introduced a new mandatory penalty of ineligibility for offences against probity, which appears in Bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record. The Law on Transparency, the Fight against Corruption and the Modernization of Economic Life of 9 December 2016, known as the Sapin 2 Act, introduced an obligation to set up anti-corruption programmes in companies. It has also strengthened the criminalization of offences against probity and created the Judicial Agreement in the Public Interest – CJIP. This transactional mechanism in relation to infringements of probity enables the public prosecutor to propose to the companies in question not only to pay a fine in the public interest but also to submit, under the supervision of the French Anti-Corruption Agency created by the same Act, to a compliance programme in respect of the prevention of corruption. The CJIP is a success. Since its recent creation, it has made it possible to pay a total of almost 555 million euros to the public treasury. In particular, the CJIP is intended to allow for the prompt and effective punishment of serious offences relating to economic and financial crime. Far from being "a real wound," as Mr. Coquerel said in his speech, it deserves to be developed because it is a real gain, and it is certainly a significant sum in an area where obtaining evidence is sometimes difficult and complex. The CJIP also helps deter fraudsters for the future. So it is not "a plague. " Tax evasion has also been at the heart of the Government's legislative and criminal policy to combat its development. For example, you have alluded to this in your interventions, two major laws, that of 6 December 2013 and 23 October 2018, both relating to the fight against fraud, as well as two important circulars issued in 2014 and 2019, tighten the penalties, promote prosecution, extend the statute of limitations and establish ever closer links between the tax administration and the judicial authority. In the light of the recent law of October 23, 2018, we came back to Bercy's lock. Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office are now systematically and necessarily able to prosecute the most serious cases of tax evasion. This law has also extended the CJIP to cases of tax evasion. Last Thursday, at his press conference, the President of the Republic announced that a mission would be entrusted to the Court of Auditors to assess precisely the amounts that are exempt from tax and to propose new measures to ensure that in France everyone respects the same rules. This will enable us to build what you, rapporteurs, want, namely the necessary statistical figures, from a common inter-ministerial base of aggregates, which will be shared. The implementation in recent years of the entire system to combat tax fraud is likely to substantially improve the effectiveness of the fight against serious financial crime. It should enable our country to rise to the level of its international commitments. France's assessments to be carried out in the next three years by various international organisations – OECD, FATF... – will, I hope, demonstrate the consistent efforts made in this area. It seems to me that the policy pursued by the Government, by the Ministry of Justice but also by the other ministries, largely echoes the observations and the main proposals put forward by MM. in their report, the subject of our debate. However, I am aware of the challenge facing the public authorities to ensure the means and organisation of an effective fight against ever-increasing and ever-changing crime. I'll take all the measure. Many of you have referred to the PNF's strength. Even if nothing is ever enough, I would like to point out that these increase steadily since they have increased from 10 member magistrates to 15 in 2015, and 16 in 2016, to 18 today. In addition, the PNF has five specialized assistants, including accountants – a sixth is being recruited. The 18 magistrates who are members of the PNF work not alone but in connection with 18 magistrates who are Parisian financial instructors for the most complex investigations. That's the clarification I wanted to make about the PNF's staffing. More broadly, since I took office, I have been encouraging, through concrete measures, a movement of specialization of magistrates. The recent creation, in the law of programming and reform for justice, of a concurrent competence of the specialized interregional court of Paris, particularly for organized financial crime of great complexity, is part of this movement of specialization. I also share the need for an interdepartmental policy to combat economic and financial crime, involving my Ministry as well as the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Economy or the Ministry of Public Accounts. On the other hand, I am very attentive to the question of the means allocated by the judicial institution to the fight against financial crime: for the PNF, but not only, a significant effort in terms of the number of magistrates has been made for several years, in a context marked, you are aware, by a high tension in terms of human resources. In addition, the creation of the new financial judicial investigation service, incorporating a specialized tax police, under the authority of a magistrate, in Bercy, is part of this ambition of specialising in actors in order to respond more and more efficiently to financial crime. Finally, I fully endorse the idea of a human resources policy that strengthens the attractiveness of the financial judicial police. The Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Action and Public Accounts and I are about to sign a joint mission letter to the General Inspectorates of Administration, Justice and Finance, with the aim of assessing the human resources of the judicial police that should be allocated to the fight against economic and financial crime in order to give its full effectiveness to our recent legislative arsenal. I will not finish this without saying a word from the whistleblowers, a subject on which I have been questioned on various occasions. With regard to the text adopted by the European Parliament on 16 April, the Government has always sought compromise, and, no, Mr Juanico, it has not touched on hypocrisy. On the contrary, the Government has always defended two objectives: first, to protect effectively those who dare to report, sometimes in isolation, violations of the law that affect the public interest; Then, and it is important, to arrive at a balanced text that ensures maximum protection for whistleblowers by establishing a strong mechanism legally proportionate to the seriousness of the reported events. We have succeeded in obtaining the vote on this directive. We now have two years to transpose it – it will not be too much to rework this topic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bernalicis, Mr Maire, be assured of my mobilization, that of my services and of the whole Government, on the subject of the fight against financial crime. I am firmly convinced of the need for and interest in inter-ministerial work in this area. We will therefore continue and work on your findings and proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u190	We come to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to consider all the questions before the end of this meeting, I ask you to scrupulously respect the two-minute limit for each question, and I ask the Government to do the same for the answers. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u191	I welcome this discussion, but I cannot be completely satisfied with it, because it reflects the policy pursued in this area: a lot of voluntarism, ambitious words, creation of committees, strong words from the President of the Republic and ministers, firmness... and nothing! I mean, so little! My question is simple, Madam Minister, Secretary of State: how much? How many more financial magistrates? How many additional police officers at OCLCIFF – Central Office for Combating Corruption and Financial and Tax Offences? How many additional police officers at OCRGDF – Central Office for the Suppression of Large Financial Crime? How many more people at the French Anti-Corruption Agency? How to strengthen the Supervisory and Resolution Authority? How many more people for the Autorité des marchés financiers? How many tax officers at DGFiP – Directorate-General for Public Finance? I could have challenged the legislative measures that have been adopted and argued to go further – my colleague Eric Coquerel did. But, even under constant law, try at least to enforce the rules and to devote the necessary resources to them! It is several billion euros that could be recovered. Of course, the results are improving, of course the AGRASC – the seized and confiscated asset recovery agency – is doing its job. Millions are coming back... but it should be billions! By recovering only 10% of tax fraud and financial crime, we could bring 12 billion euros – this is a low estimate – into the public accounts. Madam Minister, your government seminar today, which was supposed to try to find a way to finance your future actions, would have been settled in five minutes! What are you waiting for? Are we going to have to wait for the finance bill or are you going to make announcements today?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u192	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u193	Mr. Member, you cannot say as you did that the Government is doing nothing. Indeed, in the report you have submitted, a quality report – I share the view of the seal keeper – you point out that some of the measures that have been taken are in the right direction. In addition to the measures mentioned in the report, a text was adopted last October – as you pointed out in part, it was voted on by almost the whole Assembly. It offers new tools, both for the investigation – the reform of Bercy's lock – and for the investigation – the creation of a tax police under the authority of a magistrate, attached to the Ministry of Public Action and Accounts, to be even more effective in this field. Similarly, the guard of the seals has pointed out at the moment that the staff of the national financial prosecutor's office has increased steadily, from 10 to 18, and that each magistrate works with investigating magistrates to increase his/her action. We will continue to allocate resources to the fight against fraud. How many jobs are we going to create in any of the services you listed? We will determine this by basing ourselves on the report we are ordering from the three inspections, the keeper of the seals referred to it, and on the work which the President of the Republic announced on Thursday to entrust to the Court of Auditors, aimed at evaluating each of the mechanisms for combating tax fraud in order to know how to strengthen them. Of course, the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Finance has fallen steadily over the last ten years – the finding is unanimously shared. But, as a result of the redeployments within Bercy, the staff dedicated to control have remained stable over ten years: around 12,000 agents are thus assigned to the sole control of taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u194	That's not true! The Court of Auditors says the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u195	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u196	Often intertwined, the techniques of money laundering and tax evasion are ever more sophisticated and sophisticated, when the French or European authorities remain on the trailer, not to say accomplices in some cases. As a result of tax evasion, huge sums of money are not available to the State. There was unanimous agreement that the French were waiting for strong action. They said it and repeated it for eighty days. And what does the President of the Republic decide? To rely on an umpteenth evaluation report! However, the subject is already widely documented, still today by the information report of our colleagues. Scary. It's not up to it. Second subject: Danske Bank, the bank that could say "thank you" in German if I took off a letter. This case is another edifying illustration of the subject. This is a massive financial scandal: 200 billion euros of suspicious money passed through the Estonian subsidiary of the main Danish bank between 2007 and 2015; 200 billion from criminal activities, tax fraud, and all kinds of trafficking! The supervisory authorities in charge of monitoring these acts failed, as demonstrated by A+B's detailed investigation by an independent commission. The legal framework for combating money-laundering has therefore been trampled. And yet, for national supervisors, including the French supervisory authority, the CPRA – Supervisory and Resolution Authority – there was no infringement. The case was therefore placed under the carpet. Move, there's nothing to see! Mr. Secretary of State, what was the CPRA's position on this matter? Did France, through the CPRA, participate in camouflage one of the biggest money laundering scandals of recent times? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Far from the eyes, far from the heart: this is indeed a maxim that symbolizes this Europe wanted by the liberals. The turpitudes of the business world must remain immune to democracy, the people and their far too indiscreet eyes. This project is not ours, you understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u197	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u198	I would like to stress one difficulty at the outset: you are referring to a case that is still the subject of proceedings, which is why I cannot give a public opinion on it. However, I can assure you, in this and other cases, of the Government's willingness to be totally intractable with fraud, and to upgrade, whenever we have to and can, our procedures and rules to be more effective. This was the objective of the October 2018 text. If we need to strengthen the legislative arsenal at the end of the work that has been commissioned – we have a divergence on this point because I think that this work is useful, both the one requested by the inspections and the one entrusted by the President of the Republic to the Court of Auditors – we will do so. The Government wants to be intractable. He also wants to move forward on some related issues – Ms. Cariou raised the issue of confiscation of property, in particular the seizure of poorly acquired property on our soil, an issue on which initiatives have been taken. We must continue to work to enable the State and the Treasury to recover certain sums and to sell certain seized property, and at the same time to ensure that the property seized in this context can benefit, if I may say so, since it is more a question of restitution than of profit, to the peoples who have been looted. As I said to Mr Bernalicis, we are determined to strengthen the arsenal at the disposal of our services in order to combat financial crime. I cannot say any more since the case you have cited, on which the Government intends to be intractable and to shed all light, is the subject of procedures which prevent me from referring it to your Assembly today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u199	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u200	Any tax avoidance manoeuvre is unjust. It's a blow to equality. Financial crime is even one of the greatest threats to economic and social well-being. Panama papers, Paradise papers, Lux Leaks: whether it is tax fraud or optimisation, aggressive or not, we must condemn all tax scandals. The latter are based on complex, ingenious and well-organized international systems. We are faced with large-scale organized and structured international fraud. Illicit financial activities, such as tax fraud, corruption, computer fraud and money laundering, are an international problem and thus require international cooperation. Financial crime does not stop at borders. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore considers it imperative to act together with our European neighbours, and even beyond, within the OECD, in a context of internationalisation and dematerialisation of the economy – as we have said many times in committee and in public sittings. This has become all the more necessary as the emergence of new forms of crime makes investigations more complex. In the face of them, international investigations cannot be avoided. France is already engaged in this cooperation, but we are still seeing instances of malfunctioning of the data exchange system, particularly with the United States under the FATCA – Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Our group would like, Mr. Secretary of State, to know how the Government intends to continue these efforts to achieve further progress in the years to come. I am thinking, in particular, of improving the exchange of information or, in other essential areas, of establishing a single and comprehensive list of tax havens according to three criteria: tax fairness, the fight against money laundering and the prudential criterion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u201	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u202	On the European scene too, Mr President, France is mobilizing itself to ensure that the tools for combating fraud at Community level are developed and that the exchange of information is systematised. We are also reviewing tax treaties with our various partners to verify their quality and correct application. As far as data exchange is concerned, we are obviously doing so, including with the United States, even if we are taking advantage of an improvement in the quality and reliability of the data thus transmitted to us by the United States authorities. More generally, in the context of automatic exchanges, since the beginning of this year, our services have been receiving information on more than 3 million bank accounts to feed the surveys. Secondly, the French Anti-Corruption Agency is working with the partner states to increase the number of conventions, monitor procedures, convince the authorities either to conduct shared procedures, or to allow us to conduct some investigations on national soil and to institute trials even if this concerns information directly related to foreign powers. There is therefore a genuine desire to develop partnerships with foreign countries. In addition, the investments made by the State, in accordance with the decisions it has taken, in particular in the framework of the Finance Act, are aimed at equipping the services with the most up-to-date information technology facilities in order to improve the exchange of data.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u203	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u204	First of all, I would like to thank you, the co-rapporteurs, for the quality of your report. It identifies the causes and factors of financial crime, while outlining avenues and proposals. Financial crime thrives, despite the evolution of legal tools. My question is about fraudulent practices, which are increasingly sophisticated and largely based on cybercrime. Financial crime takes on new forms, making investigations more complex. Hence an absolute necessity: to adapt and to anticipate the technical progress in this field on a permanent basis. Seen through the prism of judicial and administrative actors, disputes over financial crime appear increasingly technical, sharp and vicious. Its treatment therefore requires specific skills and methods. This is a major challenge for the legislator. We must therefore engage in this struggle with strength, conviction and determination. One of the report's proposals is to "implement a certified public digital identification system to submit the dematerialisation of bank account management". It would be a first step, but it cannot be enough. So, Mr. Secretary of State, could you please explain to us the Government's road map on this issue and the means by which we can conduct this fight together and win it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u205	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u206	I am replying in a few words, Mr Roussel, not to draw up a road map – which could be summed up in voluntarism – but to describe our action and the means that we give to the State services so that they can better fight against financial crime which is becoming protective and complex and which is based on modern technologies, in particular on the cryptocurrency that you have mentioned. Our first focus of work is on data exchange – I mentioned it in reply to Mr Castellani and I will come back to it. On the other hand, we have the will to invest more and better in IT, to develop both data mining – this is an important point – and the use of all public data – I make it clear because this echoes a debate that took place in your assembly during the review of the last finance bill – in order to be as effective as possible. The project of targeting fraud and valuing requests – CVFR – as the use of data mining are for us, I stress, essential leads. The CVFR is a major project for the tax administration. Funded by the Public Action Transformation Fund, it will enable fraud to be better targeted and tax controls to be better programmed through data mining and artificial intelligence. In this way, we will not only be able to detect the most complex cases, but we will also be able to deal with simpler cases in large numbers, or even to encourage taxpayers to regularize their tax situation, which is also a way of fighting fraud. For example, in February 2019, the DGFiP sent an automated and centralized 15,000 letters – these are the latest figures we have – inviting foreign financial account holders whose reporting situation presented an anomaly to regularize their situation by coming directly closer to local services. The dispatch of this mail will be followed by a control phase, which will begin next June. An assessment will be made at the end of the work. In addition, in the framework of the latest legislation, both the anti-fraud law and the finance law, we have introduced reporting obligations for a number of providers on the Internet, including collaborative economy platforms. These providers are now required to provide us with data, which will allow us to better combat certain types of financial crime that are actually very complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u207	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u208	The complexity of the investigations that we have just mentioned is mechanically leading to an increase in the activity of the competent departments, in particular the Central Office for Combating Corruption and Financial and Tax Offences. In view of this situation, it seems essential to increase the number of services in question. However, this measure must obviously be part of a comprehensive approach, namely an ambitious human resources policy, as advocated by the co-rapporteurs, MM. Jacques Maire and Ugo Bernalicis. I fully agree with this proposal. Such a policy should make it possible to strengthen the attractiveness of the financial judicial police, by recruiting the best profiles, and to avoid an excessive turnover, which de facto weakens the follow-up of investigations. The State must live up to the challenges posed by financial crime and must provide resources commensurate with its ambitions. The policy I have just mentioned could, for example, lead to a re-evaluation of the compensation system or to more advantageous conditions for advancement. In addition, structural reform of the organisation seems essential in order to best accompany this change, in order to make it more effective. Could you inform us, Mr. Secretary of State, of the measures envisaged by the Government to retain the agents dedicated to the fight against financial crime in the prosecution and investigation services and to make their careers more attractive?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u209	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u210	I hope you will forgive, Mr President, the brevity of my answer, as I have already mentioned a number of points in replying to the previous questions. The mission letter addressed to the three inspections seized, which I mentioned earlier, will set out the Government's expectations – including needs assessment and the definition of recruitment plans from a three-year perspective – in order to calibrate and determine the means we need, including specialized investigators, particularly within OCLCIFF, to meet the situation we know. This will enable us, we believe, to be more effective in the fight against fraud and financial crime. Your question also concerns the retention of staff. If I may, I will expand on the point beyond financial crime, because the problem concerns many occupations and functions in the public service. As part of the public service reform that I am responsible for, but also in the context of the consultations with trade union organizations in conjunction with the consideration of the bill that is before me by Parliament, I have begun work on the attractiveness of the public service trades in general. It does indeed appear that a number of positions and functions requiring very specific skills may suffer from a lack of attractiveness. At the end of this work, I will take the attachment of all my Government colleagues to identify, body by body, within the State civil service, where the means must be most important and where we must provide answers. With regard to the first point, I would like to point out that, once the three inspections have given us their report, the Government will of course be willing to share with the national representative their recommendations regarding the calibration of the resources required for the services. We will be ready to discuss it and to involve parliamentarians in the formulation of this policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u211	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u212	The fight against financial crime is of course a priority, especially during this period of fiscal tension. We regularly observe, on the occasion of numerous financial scandals, that the cannibal attack on the republican pact by some of our fellow citizens is also, from a more pragmatic point of view, an attack on the nation's budget. The effectiveness of the fight against financial crime depends in particular on the effectiveness of the sanctions, whether fines or imprisonment. That is why the organization of State services and the means of the courts dealing with these subjects are essential for the success of public policies. However, government agencies do not seem to be able to curb the spread of economic and financial crime, in particular due to a lack of coordination between the various ministries. While evaluation is central to public action, the vague definition of economic and financial crime, which I mentioned earlier, is at the heart of the problem. It explains in part the breakdown, between the various ministries, of the governance of the fight against this crime. I'm asking you two questions, Secretary of State. First, what reform can be envisaged to simplify and strengthen interdepartmental governance in the fight against financial crime? Secondly, will the measures of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law and the means allocated by this law strengthen the courts dealing with the dispute in question?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u213	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u214	I will answer both of your questions as simply and directly as possible, Mrs El Haïry. With regard to the strengthening of inter-ministerial governance in the fight against financial crime, on 7 March the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Public Action and Accounts signed a joint circular encouraging all relevant departments to cooperate and to strengthen coordination between prosecutors and the tax administration at the local level. The aim is to strongly encourage each other to work together on more territorialized issues or issues of which they have more in-depth knowledge. I turn to the means allocated by the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law, in particular to the courts dealing with the dispute in question. Through this text, we have decided to simplify the criminal procedure in order to allow investigators and magistrates to gain fluidity and efficiency in time-consuming and complex cases. As for the increase in the overall financial envelope planned for the coming years, it will benefit both judges dealing with ordinary crime and those working on specialized crime, including, of course, financial crime. Under the programming law, the means of justice will increase from €7 billion in 2018 to €8.3 billion in 2022. In addition, the Ministry of Justice will benefit from the creation of 6,500 jobs over the same period. Of course, we will ensure that financial crime is ranked among the priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u215	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u216	There would be much to say about the changes in financial crime, which has become increasingly complex, faster and less detectable over the past five years. It is not the fault of Parliament to legislate: since 2013, no less than four pieces of legislation have been adopted in this area. However, the results are, it must be said, in half-tone. Part of the reality remains undervalued because of the State's failure to design the appropriate statistical tools: this is one of the lessons learned in the report. In addition to the shortcomings in the monitoring of statistics, has the State, so far, really given itself the means to combat financial crime effectively? In addition, I wish to alert the Government once again on the limits of the "at the same time". Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot on the one hand make the fight against financial crime a five-year priority and, on the other, let the staff of the tax administration, which is on the front line in the fight against tax evasion, melt down. The staff of the DGFiP are not the only ones in decline – by 17% since 2012, let us remember! There is also a net decrease in absolute value in the control services. Finally, let us remember that there is, between optimisation and tax fraud, a peak line that companies with a gable on the street sometimes do not hesitate to cross. The fault lies in a legal system that allows multinationals to artificially relocate their profits and turnover outside our borders, while their customers are in France. Together with my colleagues from the Socialist and related groups and the other groups of the National Assembly, I hope that we all commit ourselves to these projects, so that the republican promise of equality of all in the face of taxation is kept.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u217	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u218	To the extent that the same questions come back, which is quite legitimate, my answer will be brief. As I mentioned earlier, the downsizing of the DGFiP has been a constant for ten years. You recalled, Mr.David, that this decrease had been 17% since 2012 – a date I know well too. As I have said, the redeployments have enabled us to maintain the staff devoted to control, namely 12,000 full-time equivalents. Furthermore, as I explained in reply to Mr Roussel, we are investing in artificial intelligence and data mining, in order to find new ways to identify fraud and to detect data that will allow us to open further investigations into facts of which we have not previously been aware. You called for criminalization and prosecution of what might be termed fraudulent optimisation. That is precisely what we did with the law of 23 October 2018 on the fight against fraud, which Parliament adopted by a very large majority. Until this law came into force, there were possibilities for sanctions against tax evasion, but not against fraudulent optimisation practices by some street-running companies. The October 2018 law provided for the possibility of sanctioning these practices, under the supervision of the judge. Its implementation will enable us to make great progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u219	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u220	I would like to ask you about the possible remuneration or financial assistance of whistleblowers, scientists or ordinary citizens who question us and highlight situations of fraud often of great magnitude, sometimes taking risks for themselves. The information report on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime, which is the subject of our debate, addresses this issue. The very definition of a whistleblower excludes his remuneration, since under section 6 of the Sapin 2 Act, a whistleblower is a natural person who acts "in a disinterested manner and in good faith" in order to denounce "a crime or an offence, a serious and manifest violation of an international commitment... or a serious threat or damage to the public interest". At the same time, our rapporteurs propose that financial aid be re-established for the benefit of whistleblowers. Many European states denounce the export of the American doctrine of financial incentives, which, while creating unequal treatment between whistleblowers, assimilated as bounty hunters, would generate a system of delation. At the same time, a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council is more in the direction of better protection of whistleblowers through financial assistance. What is the Government's position on this matter? Do you think that it is necessary to amend the law to allow compensation for whistleblowers? If so, what would be the contours? Or should we maintain the totally disinterested nature of this practice, at the risk of losing information that would enable us to better combat financial crime and prevent illegal situations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u221	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u222	The answer to this question is also contained in the Anti-Fraud Act of October 2018. By adopting this text, Parliament has in fact maintained the system of remuneration of advisers in the fight against tax fraud, with the agreement and even the support of the Government. This shows that it is open and wants a remuneration scheme for tax fraud advisers and more broadly for whistleblowers. The directive presented by the European Commission on 23 April 2018, and subsequently adopted by the Council on 15 March 2019 and by the European Parliament in plenary session on 16 April, is expected to be published shortly. The concept of unselfishness is not provided for in this directive which we will have two years to transcribe, which means that we will be able to continue to pay as much as necessary, in accordance with the legal framework which we have set up, whistleblowers and whistleblowers. The transcription of the directive will give us the opportunity to reflect not only on the remuneration of whistleblowers, but on their protection. We will, of course, ensure that the conditions and objectives set out in it are respected. I would like to take this opportunity to answer Mr Juanico's question on the number of tax advisers. In 2018, we examined two files. The procedures are still under way and will be made public shortly. Generally speaking, the ratio between the remuneration of the advisers and the gain for the State is not a common measure, since these two operations allowed the latter to realize a revenue of 90 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u223	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u224	My question doesn't necessarily call for an answer. Although I have a great deal of consideration for your action, Mr Secretary of State, particularly for the one you recently conducted in my territory, I wanted to ask myself in this chamber about several elements. Do we have more or less resources to get us out of the current situation than in 1945, when we didn't know if the money was in Vichy, London, Washington, or even Moscow or elsewhere? We weren't better off then.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u225	[[Smile]] But there was real political will! And a strong Communist party!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u226	There was a will. We decided to rebuild France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u227	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u228	We wanted France to become France again. Today, how could we hope to fight if we continue to privatize excessively, as the Government did with Aéroports de Paris? In the past, were we not able to withdraw money from what earns the most?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u229	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u230	We can enter into other contracts with the private, instead of leaving everything to him! We should recover much of our heritage in this period of crisis. On the other hand, how could any tax provision work in a package that includes Luxembourg, Monaco, Ireland and the Netherlands? What to do, facing such a reality? Nothing, unfortunately. Without delay, a fourth weapon must be created, alongside the land, air and marine forces, to combat cybercrime. With this act, France could finally begin something, after rebuilding its state, which no longer exists today, when it should be both a symbol and a tool for the one who exercises power. If we don't create this weapon, we'll only be able to take measurements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u231	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u232	[[Smile]] The temptation is great to grasp your invitation not to answer you! But in a very different context than in 1945, we now have the means, which are not like those at the time, very real. On the other hand, you have presented some of our partners as somewhat unreliable in the fight against tax fraud. However, since 1 January the Union has strengthened rules which will enable it to classify States according to their commitments and the means they are implementing to combat fraud. As a result, it will be much more effective in detecting or characterising at Community level States that would not necessarily be partners in this fight. Finally, although I am not sure that this answer will satisfy you, failing to create a fourth weapon to combat financial cybercrime, we are investing in giving our services the means to lead this fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u233	[[Smile]] Thank you for answering me. It wasn't an easy question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u234	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1215.u235	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Questions on the Government's policy on the maintenance of public services in the Territory; Questions on the implementation of the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. The meeting is adjourned.
