ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the proposed 2018 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill (No. 1947, 1990).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u2	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u3	With the proposed 2018 budget regulation bill, the Government's first full budget year ends. Since its initial encryption and during its execution, we have constantly alerted you, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, to the lack of relevance of your opaque, "austeral" and short-term budgetary choices. Now the results are before our eyes; They're right. As a result of planing, public spending fell by 1.8 per cent in real terms, and by 3 per cent excluding payroll, while the government's budget deficit increased by 12 per cent, as a result of the tax gifts you distributed. This year, we have seen the most severe reduction in compulsory levies since 2009, amounting to 16.5 billion euros. And, like Santa Claus, you never go to the poorest people. Abolition of the ISF – a solidarity tax on wealth –, a reduction in corporate tax, an increase in the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness in employment –: so many dividends that benefit only the most fortunate of our fellow citizens! As for the reductions in the housing tax and the income tax, which you gargle on television sets, invoking the middle classes, they bypass precisely the poorest, who already did not pay for it. On all these issues, the Court of Auditors' report on the state budget in 2018 is overwhelming. And again: this is only what can be assessed by Parliament, which has become the last wheel of the Republican carriage. If, in 2017, President Macron claimed to refocus this assembly's mission on government oversight, notably through the spring of the evaluation, we were not given the necessary tools. Between a host of truncated indicators and the lack of human and financial resources to produce independent assessments, it is the artistic blurry that reigns, not the necessary transparency. Through this motion for referral to committee, it is precisely these two hypocrisy that we denounce and try to correct: that of a very costly fiscal exercise for the poor, and that of a spring of evaluation that, instead of giving us the means of control, makes us the impotent observatory of the Prince's actions and actions. Faced with the vagueness of the figures and the lack of debate in committee, we are carrying out our own spring evaluation of your budget year and your calculations. As I have pointed out at the moment, the Court of Auditors – which cannot be suspected of complacency with us – is burdening you in its report on the state budget in 2018. In the last few months, you have only had in your mouth the pompous term of "transformation", replacing that of "reform". When reading the report, we wonder what you intend to transform, since you only spend 3.5% of the general budget on investment! This number alone is a sign of your imposture. It is not so much a matter of transformation as of destruction, above all that of the State, therefore of our collective power of action and decision, alone capable of opposing the chaos of particular interests a choice of society made democratically. The Court of Auditors is formal: in 2018, you cut in revenue as in expenditure, while raising the deficit to €76 billion. Such an increase had not been measured since 2014. The result: a impoverished state, weakened in its most crucial missions, at the mercy of dividend eaters, who expect nothing but to plant their fangs in these juicy monopolies! Last year, with the abolition of the ISF, the reduction of corporate tax, the rise of the CICE and the introduction of the flat tax, you deprived the French by 9.5 billion euros. In other words, your gifts to the wealthy correspond exactly to the increase in the budget deficit, which you make bear by all the French. As in the time of military suppliers, the effort of all funds the comfort of some! At the same time, the most unfair, non-progressive taxes are constantly increasing, from an extra billion in VAT to 4 billion in energy taxes. We can see who the Government takes and who it gives to without counting. We can see where his trust and allegiances are going. The Court of Auditors also notes that there is no control of the tax niche in favour of corporate sponsorship, the cost of which has increased tenfold since its creation in 2003, without any evaluation of its effectiveness being carried out. While we look at the slightest false nots of the recipients of social aid, always suspected of lazyness or bluffiness, the oligarchy enjoys blind confidence in the expenditure of the public funds allocated to it! This is the case with the 200 tax expenditure – the famous niches – which the Court of Auditors deplores the lack of pilotage, as well as the ignorance in which we are among their beneficiaries. This opacity, this nebulous complexity, how can we not believe that they serve a purpose of concealment and scramble, even though the Government carefully maintains them in the tax systems that it snares? Of the 10 billion in the Industry Innovation Fund, the Court of Auditors estimates that only 250 million will be released each year, while the remainder loses in the way of a complex and unjustified budgetary mechanism, which can be withdrawn at any time for other purposes. It is difficult, therefore, to think that this is something other than a screen intended to justify the calamitous privatisations of public companies that are nevertheless beneficiaries, such as La Française des Jeux et Aéroports de Paris – ADP! If there was still to be proof that all this was a form of doctrinal blindness, the Court of Auditors showed that the Fund, the most optimistic of which estimated the return at 2.5%, was five times less profitable than the average public participation. In other words, by refraining from privatizing the companies concerned and simply introducing into the annual budget a line of 250 million, intended for public investment in favour of innovation, the Government would spend less, and would save the State a dismemberment from which the next generations will suffer – generations which it claims to protect by practicing quite selective austerity. For in a word as in a hundred, that is what we are witnessing. Just as we were dismembering those who attacked the person of the sovereign, we are dismembering the state, here and now, for having sought the sovereignty of the oligarchy. Parliament is witnessing, as a powerless spectator, this lamentable spectacle, which is all the more so since the spring of evaluation is only a vast imposture, both in substance and in form. First of all, I would like to point out that the procedure has been drawn up for the special rapporteurs of the assessment commissions. These – let me remind you – are few among the groups with few Members, such as the one of which I am a member. I would also like to remind you that these rapporteurs, to be so special, have two hours of discussion with the ministers. The speakers in the groups have only two minutes of speaking time. In the end, it is the result of this formidable majority bonus that the Government is controlled only by its flocks. In addition, evaluations often focus on missions with no real thematic proximity. Let me see, for example, what immigration and road parking have to do together to be treated in the same assessment committee! The joke does not end here: the contours of the indicators available to Parliament, as well as their results, have been defined in advance. In our view, they are questionable. What an idea, for example, to have the performance of the National Court of Asylum evaluated in the light of the speed at which it deals with its files! The same applies to the High Council for Public Finance, whose opinion, after it has given its opinion, no one cares whether they are in line with the macroeconomic realities they were supposed to predict. Indicators that call "performance" the resale of essential public goods to public debt annuitants could also be mentioned. We see here the bias of these indicators, which you refuse to reform despite our proposals to that effect, Minister. So this is how power is exercised in Macronia: to the benefit of the rich, to the detriment of the people, in an opacity that maintains the citizens, the opposition that we represent and to your own majority in ignorance and impotence! However, we refuse to resolve this situation. We refuse to allow the conditions for consideration of the 2018 Budget Settlement Bill to fall short of democratic requirements, particularly for small groups like ours. We affirm that the necessary oversight of the Government's action by Parliament requires transparency, which cannot be slammed behind the hollow concepts of efficiency, efficiency and simplification, which are your trademark. This motion for referral back to committee is therefore an opportunity for us to get this debate out of closed doors from the enlarged committees, and to bring it to light, even artificially, in the Chamber. This is an opportunity to shed light on your screens, so that another truth about your policy can emerge. Of course, it will be impossible for me to go back to the details of each budget mission. That is why I will focus on your political choices, which seem to us to be the most serious. First of all, considering that public services are the assets of those who do not, we affirm that the State's financial participation in strategic sectors must remain the majority. However, when we read the special trust account "Financial participations of the State", we discover that since 2017, the State has sold billions of euros of securities, shares and company rights that it held in companies of primary importance to our citizens, such as Safran, Engie and GIAT Industries. We will soon be able to add the billions of La Française des Jeux and Paris Airport, which are all gifts offered to your friends, to the detriment of the most elementary economic pragmatism you claim. It is to believe that the circle that the Chinese investors reserved for you during the sale of Toulouse airport did not serve as a lesson – or rather that the best interest of France does not matter to you! Brader, of course, makes it possible to bring fresh money into the state's coffers in the short term, in particular to cover the cost of your gifts to the rich, while remaining within the framework of the famous 3% public deficit. But the interest of the French in the long term, it seems that you have taken care of it. By privatizing ADP, you are losing our citizens a share of sovereignty, increasing environmental risks by increasing the number of flights and opening the door to downsizing, resulting in a deterioration in the quality of service. I would like to take this opportunity to remind those who are listening to us of the importance of their support for the procedure under way for a referendum on a shared initiative. Another attack, against the poorest this time: your housing policy, which constitutes an offence to the memory and action of Abbot Peter. According to the report published by the eponymous foundation at the beginning of the year, the budget cuts decided by the Government in housing policy will allow it to save €4 billion per year from 2020, compared to the situation prevailing in 2017. The 109 "Aide à l'action au logement" programme costs this, with a decrease in the initial allocation of this programme of €1.2 billion between 2017 and 2018. By 2020 and compared to the situation in 2017, the Government will have lost 2.5 billion euros per year to the recipients of the personalized housing assistance – APL. Thus, in 2019, an allotee will have lost an average of 12 euros per month compared to what he perceived before Emmanuel Macron came to power. And the fall will continue in 2020! Let me remind you that half of those affected by LPAs live below the poverty line. Every week, I receive housing applicants at my permanent residence. In Seine-Saint-Denis, housing is saturated. What do I have to answer to these people, unless your policy choices on social housing lead to a 12% reduction in the construction of social housing since the beginning of the legislature? Do I have to tell them to wait and take their evil in patience? This would lie to them, since a study by the Caisse des dépôts that takes into account the new financial perspectives of the HLM is particularly pessimistic: it concludes that the production of social housing will fall below 100,000 in 2020 and will decline to 600,000 per year until 2027. As if that were not enough, you add indignity to the injustice experienced by our fellow citizens with disabilities. Of course, you are increasing the amount of the adult disability benefit – AAH – while, it is true, keeping its beneficiaries below the poverty line. But by changing the calculation methods of access to the AAH for couples, you prevent many of them from benefiting from it. You finally put national solidarity on the basis of marital solidarity. However, you have had the opportunity on many occasions to vote on a bill by my colleague Marie-George Buffet. Supported by all the oppositions and by all the associations working in the field of disability, this proposal considered that to stop taking into account the spouse's income in calculating the amount of the AAH would cost 360 million euros, equivalent to the increase in expenditure in 2018 for the program 157 "Disability and dependency". This is therefore an entirely feasible measure. Let us now take the "Work and Employment" mission. Intervention costs for the Mission as a whole decreased by 16 per cent, due to the restriction of the aided contract scheme, which has been renamed "competence employment path". While there were 380,000 in 2016 and 280,000 in 2017, they were reduced to 128000 in 2018. Of course, you argue that only a third of these contracts lead to a CDI. That is not satisfactory, indeed. But if you were to put an end to the declines in community endowments, they could more often hire the recipients of these contracts on a sustainable basis. In addition, it is worth recalling that 90% of the beneficiaries were insecure persons or persons away from employment who were often socially useful in associations and certain public services under this contract. That is only part of the realities that we would have liked to have been able to address in a real debate. The civil service administrations are bleeded on blood; the reception of asylum seekers is under-budgeted; a portion of the funds for the equipment of our forces in the "Defence" mission is simply cancelled. And we only have two minutes per enlarged committee to address these first-rate issues for our fellow citizens! We still want to have proposals, but we have proposed ways to improve parliamentary oversight of the Government's implementation of the budget, in the sense of greater transparency. Once it is not customary, after making our criticisms of the Court of Auditors, we have relayed some of its recommendations. Thus, according to the Court, tax expenditure – or tax niches – increased by €6.7 billion between 2017 and 2018, surpassing €100 billion. Overall, between 2013 and 2018, the cost of tax niches increased by 39%. However, these tax expenditures are not "directed or assessed." The Court of Auditors notes as well that "their assessment is also very weak, although they often have mixed links with missions and their objectives. For more than 200 tax niches, we don't even know the number of beneficiaries! In the same spirit, we are expected to be able to assess the evolution of tax revenues when we consider the proposed Regulations. However, we do not have the tools to appreciate the bounty effect of your tax gifts, and therefore the revenue losses they have caused. I am thinking here, for example, of flat tax. Please explain to us, ladies and gentlemen, how you can do your monitoring work without this information. That is why we propose that they be appended to the next bill, to be legible and usable. François de Rugy announced on May 23, 2019 that, for the finance bill for 2020, an evaluation of all the government's budgetary decisions would be carried out in accordance with a 2 degree trajectory. In the same spirit, we have tabled an amendment to add a cross-cutting policy budget document on biodiversity conservation. Why didn't you? Is it not in the interest of the Government to make this data usable by our assembly, or even by the environmental activists who would be interested in it? We also propose that each interdepartmental policy be similarly evaluated in the course of the review of the proposed Regulations, by publishing the cross-cutting policy documents on that occasion. Finally, for greater transparency regarding public-private partnerships and their cost to the French, we demand that we have access to the full costing of these contracts, especially when they are multi-year, in the general and budgetary accounts of the State. For taxpayers, it is a question of knowing the true cost of this unnatural association. This settlement law finally has the merit of highlighting the policy pursued by your Government; It only has the effect of making the poor bear the weight of the rich, which we have repeatedly condemned. Beyond that, we denounce this assessment parody of the spring of the evaluation. Not that we are challenging the existing instruments or the figures they contain, but they are insufficient or non-existent in some cases. In addition, we lack time to analyse them well. That is why, in the interest of being constructive, and in order to propose ways of improving the control of budgetary implementation, the Group of France and I are calling for this bill to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u4	In the general debate, Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u5	There are a number of positive points in this bill. Last year was marked by a management of government spending in line with the initial forecast – which is not very usual. The evidence is that no advance order was required, while previous managements had experienced two, sometimes three. Thus, sub-budgeting was limited to EUR 1.5 billion in 2018. They are always the same: the OPEX, for 600 million more...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u6	It's getting better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u7	[[Smile]] That's true, minister, but can do better, as they said on your transcript when you were young.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u8	It wasn't that long ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u9	Can do better! We are increasing by 200 million in 200 million, so perhaps at the end of the legislature we will be able to set the right figure at the outset. Everyone knows that the initial budget is not enough, but we continue! Sub-budgeting, I said, was therefore limited to 1.5 billion, compared to 4.4 billion euros in 2017. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore welcomes the fact that the Government has managed to keep the expenditure envelope within the framework of the budgetary authorities, thanks to the improvement of the quality of the initial budgeting. Cancellations and appropriations have also been among the lowest since the entry into force of the Financial Law Organization Act. In particular, the Court of Auditors welcomes the low level of the so-called "precautionary" reserve, which has risen from 8% in 2017 to 3% in 2018. As for the state's revenues, they are 8.8 billion euros higher than you had foreseen in the original finance law – in fact, a little less if you withdraw the 1.4 billion corresponding to the deferral of transfer rights – despite the strikes of the SNCF and the so-called "yellow vests" movement. However, it cannot be said that this is the result of your action; It is simply the result of a favourable international environment, but that remains good news. Despite these two positive points, weaknesses persist. First of all, and most worryingly, the deficit continues to grow. The finance law for 2018 had certainly forecast a very strong increase in the state deficit, which was expected to reach €85.7 billion, up 23.6% from the initial finance law for 2017. On paper, the result appears to be positive, as in the end, the deficit reached 76 billion in 2018, or 3% of GDP. But let us not forget the essential: the deficit of the state continues to grow! It is 8.3 billion euros higher than it was in 2017 – even 11.1 billion if one takes into account the 1.4 billion linked to the erroneous attachment of transfer rights between 2017 and 2018 that I was quoting at the moment. The deficit is 12% higher than it was the previous year, and that's where it hurts. Of course, objectively, it's better than you planned, but it's still worse than the previous execution. These figures are, moreover, fairly consistent with the path set out in the stability programme, which does not foresee any particular effort for the State: it should be noted that the effort is focused on the accounts of social security administrations and local authorities, whose improvement compensates for the deterioration of the state deficit. We see a small reduction in the government deficit – 0.2 points – but the structural deficit remains almost stable. The government deficit – state, social security and local and regional authorities – stood at 59.6 billion in 2018, or 2.5% of GDP, after 2.8% in 2017. This is a figure of 0.2 percentage points lower – given the rounding problems – than that provided for by the programming law of January 2018. This reduction is apparently good news. But the devil is hiding in detail, and the European rules call for a structural effort to reduce our public deficits by 0.5 percentage points of GDP, i.e. around EUR 12 billion per year. Let's take this into account: this effort is only 0.1 percentage points as the structural deficit rises from 2.4% of GDP in 2017 to 2.3% in 2018; This level of deficit is 0.1 percentage points higher than that provided for in the Public Finance Programming Act of January 2018. Moreover, in your forecasts for 2019, the structural balance is expected to rise to 2% in 2019, i.e. a reduction of 0.3 percentage points of GDP. But that is not to mention the slowdown in the international economy. Debt continues to rise, despite European rules. You do not respect France's European commitments. As for the decline in tax revenues, or more precisely the tax reduction measures, they have not been offset by a reduction in expenditure due to competition. Tax revenues fell by 13.5 billion, decided on in the 2018 Finance Act: I am thinking of the transformation of the solidarity tax on wealth into a property tax – IFI – for 3.2 billion, the single flat-rate levy for about 1.2 billion or the State's assumption of the housing tax rebate, for a good 3 billion. In previous years, there had been the CICE, the decline in the normal corporate tax rate, the tax credit for the employment of an employee at home. However, there have also been increases: tax revenues have been increased by 5 billion thanks in particular to energy taxation and VAT, which set the balance at 8.5 billion. Note that, in the absence of tax measures, we would have just maintained the deficit in the state budget between 2017 and 2018, as its increase is $8.3 billion. In this connection, the Court of Auditors – of which the Libertés et Territoires Group shares the analysis – recalls that "the State is not in a position to reduce its own expenditure due to competition from reductions in levies made on all public administrations. The problem is that you have not had enough political courage to reduce public spending, the only way to reduce tax levies on a sustainable basis. This act of regulation shows this. As far as tax expenditure is concerned, we discussed this earlier when we debated a motion for a resolution on this subject. They continued to grow. You know what Saint Paul's epistle says, minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u10	Which one?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u11	"What I want to do, I don't do, and what I don't want to do, I do. Such a sentence can perfectly apply to tax expenditures, and that is indeed the tragedy. Like your various predecessors, you said: "We could not continue this way, we must reduce them. But every time we see the opposite movement. Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u12	You were opposed to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u13	It's probably the devil's work, will say our communist colleagues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u14	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u15	...the devil being in this case the great capital. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is the lack of political courage. The Court of Auditors, of which our group, again, shares the diagnosis, considers that "the mechanisms for capping tax expenditure are now inoperative". A review of all the tax niches that come to "mit" income tax, among other taxes, and to obliterate its progressivity is therefore now necessary. For example, as the Court of Auditors points out, of the seventy-seven tax expenditures of the mission "Economy" – a mission that depends on you, Minister, and Mr Le Maire – twenty-seven, or one-third, have not been assessed. However, this expenditure represents more than 28 billion euros in 2018! It would therefore be necessary to apply the rule laid down by our eminent rapporteur-general that any unevaluated arrangements should be abolished: in such a case, your services would not fail to carry out the necessary assessments... In the current context of tax exasperation, we need more transparency and efficiency for our citizens. Our group has made proposals to reduce the weight of all niches or better cap them. An effective method would be to say to all your government colleagues: "Start by reducing the cost of all existing tax niches by 10 per cent as of next year. Then we can talk. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u16	This from Courson, there's someone who would make a good minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u17	By the way, we have discovered that some ministries are no longer organising conferences on tax expenditure – as we have seen in the Court of Auditors' budget implementation notes, to which I refer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u18	I'm the one who's running these conferences!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u19	Finally, in addition to the findings specific to expenditure implementation in 2018, we can note that every year the complexity of the state's budgetary framework and its lack of readability become critical. The consequence is that our ability to fully understand the financial challenges associated with state action is now limited and, with it, the ability to make decisions with full information. To that end, however, sound principles such as budgetary unity and universality had been established, not to mention the non-allocation of income to expenditure. This is proof of the growing circumvention of the budgetary framework applicable to state expenditure. Indeed, a large part of the State's action is housed in funds without legal personality, which are not included in the State budget: apart from the initial abundance, the expenditure on these funds remains outside the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u20	Dear colleague, we must conclude...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u21	Indeed, the means of funds without legal personality are beyond the management rules. My question is therefore simple: Mr Minister, are you in favour of the solution that the Court of Auditors is advocating, namely the rebudgeting of the Industry Innovation Fund in particular? And, more broadly, do you intend to conduct a review of all funds without State-controlled legal personality?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u22	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u23	So let us, this day, and finally, the 2018 budget, complete the budget sequence that has animated our work in recent weeks. Many have already been said, both in committee and in public session, in particular that the state budget is in deficit, and more importantly than in 2017 – 8.3 billion euros more. You have presented us with your various arguments. Unsurprisingly, we do not subscribe to it at all. The reading of the Court of Auditors' report, which was debated here last Monday, brings to our mind many myths, which you feed and which have a hard life in budgetary matters. I don't usually use the analogy that many people use when comparing the state to a household or business. This comparison is largely biased, truncated, since the lifespan of a State is not that of a household or enterprise. Above all, with the level of taxes, the state itself sets its own salary, which is not the case with almost all of our fellow citizens. Once these legitimate precautions were taken, what happened in 2018? Once again, we hear that the state lives beyond its means, that it remains too expensive. But if, in 2018, the state spent more than it had in the portfolio, that's not because its spending has blazed. Far from it! Because with the blows to housing policy and the cohesion of the territories due in particular to the massive abolition of aided contracts and blind cuts affecting the LPA, public spending has been literally locked up. Moreover, our fellow citizens have seen this very well: the means of public policy are put under extreme strain, which is a sign of a powerful decline in public power. The state of health of our hospitals is the most striking and clearest example of this. Only with the courage of hospital staff can we avoid breaking up for the moment. In essence, therefore, the State spent no more than in 2017. The explanation for the increase in the budget deficit in 2018 is not to go on that side. In this respect, reading the Court of Auditors' report offers a very useful insight: the budget deficit fell by EUR 8.3 billion in 2018 due to massive tax cuts, of the order of EUR 13.5 billion, the bulk of which – EUR 11.3 billion – was captured by the most affluent and the trading sector. That's why, at the end of 2017, we called this 2018 finance bill "the budget of the rich." The facts gave us reason. This is the details of the EUR 11.3 billion in tax cuts that I repeat will have taken advantage of in a very small circle. The CICE, which was already costing a "crazy money", saw its bill increase by 3.5 billion euros in 2018 to reach 20 billion euros. The positive effects of this tax credit on employment, industry, territories and investment are still being investigated. Even if the CICE has not shown any sign of efficiency, as the Court of Auditors' last report pointed out, you have decided to maintain it. For 2019, the so-called transition year, it is even cheese and dessert, since the old and new version of the CIC will be combined, for a total cost of 40 billion euros. You then removed the WSF, digging a €3.2 billion hole in our public finances. But, as with the CICE, one wonders what effects have been achieved. Where's the runoff? Where are the famous evaluations so promised? Mr Minister, I would like to remind you cordially: in the Finance Committee, you have committed yourself to providing me with information on the profile of the beneficiaries of the abolition of the ISF and on the tax gains they have thus obtained. When will you do it? The same request applied to the single flat-rate levy, another flagship tax measure of this rich budget, which resulted in a budgetary loss of EUR 1.6 billion, which was 300 million more than the flat tax was originally supposed to cost. What is the reason for such a budgetary drift? And what about 2019? The decrease in corporate tax then led to a decrease in SI income of around EUR 1.2 billion, plus the effects of the elimination of the 3% dividend tax, which was EUR 1.8 billion but not replaced. This is the details of these EUR 11.3 billion of tax measures, gifts, granted without consideration, without prior commitments, without conditions: a genuine privatisation of our public finances. I could also mention the additional EUR 2 billion that should have been reported by extending the tax on financial transactions to intraday transactions, these hyper-specific transactions carried out on the same day, which are a source of financial destabilization. But, fully committed to the battle of Brexit to attract London City traders, you have given up on this measure, which is just and expected by our fellow citizens. Let us admit that, ladies and gentlemen: 11.3 billion is a huge amount. This is the equivalent of the accumulated resources allocated annually to justice, prisons, overseas, asylum and immigration, as well as to the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies. This figure shows us that our country is not at the bone, that it has the financial means, the means to carry out another policy, modern, fairer, more ambitious, of progress. These EUR 11.3 billion could – should have – have been allocated to the real needs of our country. They were to those who already had so much. That's why our fellow citizens have chanted "Tax Justice! on our roundabouts, in public meetings and in the complaint books. You answered them: "great debate". The announcements made by the President of the Republic and then by the Prime Minister last week, however, allow us to see more clearly. So close the door to the great tax reform long awaited by our fellow citizens. You stay in the middle of the ford and there is every reason to believe that the changes promised will, once again, be like a pass-through. For example, you are announcing that you want to reduce the amount of income tax by $5 billion by focusing the effects of this measure on the first two tranches. Well noted... But this means that 50% of our citizens will not be affected, those who do not pay income tax, especially the most fragile. You insist, in fact, not on VAT or CSG, which weigh heavily on the most modest households. The latter will remain on the side of the road again. The other question is the financing of this tax reduction. The point is fundamental: who will pay the bill? Last April, the majority told us that these 5 billion would be mostly offset by the elimination of tax niches for businesses. This is no longer the case, since tax niche reform is expected to bring in only one billion. The remaining 4 billion could therefore come from further reductions in appropriations, called their wishes by some of the speakers who have just spoken, and who will penalise those who need public services, in accordance with your leitmotiv: "less tax, less public expenditure". In order to finance tax cuts for the middle classes, these same classes, in addition to the popular classes, would be used. Tax justice, we'll have to go back! That is why we fear that all of this will again be like a pass-by, an umpteenth tax cup game. Because making contributions to the richest and major groups seems already excluded. Minister, why not introduce new income brackets? Why not go back to the elimination of the ISF and the reduction of tax on dividends and other financial securities? Why not take effective action against tax evasion, as we propose? The Prime Minister has remained silent on this point, which is not understandable. The question of financing has also arisen since the total removal of the housing tax was confirmed. On this subject, you have not yet returned your copy. So we do not despair, even if we are not confident enough, given the budgetary guidelines that you have taken since the beginning of the quinquennium, and which this bill is an illustration of. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] In view of these various elements, you will easily understand why the Communist MPs and the GDR Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u24	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u25	The policy pursued during 2018, the first year of full fiscal year for the Government and the parliamentary majority, was aimed at stimulating investment and increasing purchasing power, in line with the course set by the President of the Republic. And the actions undertaken for this purpose have had concrete effects on the daily lives of the French. In my constituency, believe me, many people thank us for earning 50 more euros per month thanks to the abolition of sickness and unemployment contributions. Similarly, the promise was made to remove the housing tax for 80% of households – a measure appreciated by taxpayers and elected representatives – by compensating the euro for the loss of resources for local authorities. The social net has been strengthened – as evidenced by the upgrading of the activity premium, the disabled adult allowance and the solidarity allowance for the elderly. While these allowances have not been increased for years, once again the promise has been kept and it deserves to be welcomed. The mastery of the government's total spending target – €425.4 billion – illustrates the commitment of serious budget commitments to French and French people. But budgetary orthodoxy must not be our only political horizon. This is why some priority missions have, at the same time, benefited from significant increases in their appropriations. Thus, in implementation and compared to 2017, the "School Education" mission saw its appropriations increase by 1,27 billion euros – for having met the teachers of CP and EC1 doubled in schools with priority education networks, I can assure you that these additional resources are welcomed and unanimously appreciated. The Defence Mission has received €997 million in additional funding, the €675 million "Research and Higher Education" mission, and the €667 million "Ecology and Sustainable Development" mission – we have more than words to propose in order to succeed in the essential and expected ecological transition, we move on to actions and we commit the necessary resources. The "Security" and "Justice" missions saw their appropriations increase by 327 million euros and 354 million euros respectively. Don't dislike our opposition colleagues here who obviously prefer to see the glass half empty rather than full! But, let us be clear, this assumed policy of stimulating economic activity inevitably has an impact on the government's budget deficit. The government deficit thus stood at 3% of GDP compared to 2.9% the previous year. For the first time since 2014, the government's budget deficit is growing. Here again, promise kept! However, this increase must be balanced by the good results of French growth. Despite a deterioration in the European economy, the French economy performed more than honorably, with growth at 1.6%, slightly higher than in other countries. Supported by government reforms – easing the labour market, more investment-friendly taxation, etc. – which restored the confidence of economic actors, the trading sector has a net balance of 241000 job creations in 2018. For 2019, companies are still committed to increasing their investments by 11%. Thanks to the robustness of economic activity, stimulated by the Government's action, tax revenues are higher than provided for in the original Finance Act, LFI. As a result of higher than expected revenues and controlled expenditures, the public accounts balance is much better than expected. We don't have to blush. On the contrary. The government's budget deficit is EUR 76 billion, compared to the BIA forecast of EUR 85.7 billion, while the government deficit is 2.5% of GDP, down from 2017. If one thing to remember in this bill to regulate the budget is that France follows a path of decreasing its public deficit, thus respecting the commitments made. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In summary, the 2018 budget implementation is broadly in line with the expenditure forecasts, demonstrating the sincerity of the budget presented in the BIA, and better than expected in terms of revenue, demonstrating a realistic and prudent initial budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u26	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u27	The Settlement Act provides an opportunity for the Government to report to the people's national representation, on the fulfilment of the objectives set out in the initial budget and on the proper use of public resources. However, two years after Emmanuel Macron's accession to the presidential office, it is clear that the visionaries are in the red: public spending is increasing; the government deficit is growing; The debt's flying away. This regulation is nothing more than a finding of failure, alas, of the majority's budgetary policy. I call the alarm bell again, first of all, on public spending. Indeed, contrary to what the Government is suggesting, public expenditure is increasing by 0.9 per cent in volume terms, which is 24.5 billion euros more than in 2017, and 1.9 per cent in value terms. The Government has tried to make it look like a drop in volume spending by using the indicators that set it up, i.e. by excluding tax credits and retaining a favourable deflator. But, Minister, you have been called to order by the Court of Auditors that "the State is not in a position to reduce its own expenditure due to competition from reductions in levies on all public administrations" – I am not saying that. You have in no way taken advantage of a positive growth of 1.7% to reduce spending, which makes it impossible to reduce taxes on a sustainable basis. Finding very worrying for France: the increase in expenditure is mainly on staff expenditure – these increase by 2 billion euros. Thus, the wage bill, which accounts for 39 per cent of the State budget, has grown by 2 per cent and the workforce has not decreased. The Government's promises to reduce the number of public jobs are not being kept. In fact, Minister, you have given up reducing the state's life course, and it is the French who will eventually pay for your mistakes. Secondly, the public deficit, which amounts to EUR 59.6 billion, ranks us among the poor students in the euro area. From 2017 to 2018, the average deficit in the euro area increased from 1% to 0.5% of GDP, while the government deficit in France increased from 2.9% to 3%. The other euro area countries have a deficit of around 0.8%, which is three times lower than ours. This government deficit is due to the extremely worrying size of the government deficit, which has been growing for the first time in three years. For example, in 2018, the latter increased by EUR 8.3 billion to more than EUR 76 billion, an increase that the Chairman of the Finance Committee reminded us of by 12%. These figures are alarming in several ways. Firstly, because, as the High Council for Public Finance points out, "if the reduction in the structural deficit is close to the trajectory set out in the law on public finance programming in 2018, the structural balance of -2.3 points of GDP remains far from the medium-term objective of -0.4 points of GDP defined in this text". Secondly, because our country, because of your policy, has not taken advantage of the favourable context of strong growth to make the necessary efforts. While all administrations are virtuous, the state alone accounts for 120% of the public deficit in 2018. The effort to reduce the public deficit is therefore based solely on the communities and social security to which the State imposes budgetary restrictions which it does not itself impose. Third, debt continues to increase. In its last annual report published on 3 June, the International Monetary Fund was concerned about the level of French public debt. As long as the spectre of public debt is above France's economic destiny, there will be no peaceful future for our fellow citizens. The debt at 31 December 2018 amounts to €2026 billion plus the €4208 billion off-balance-sheet commitments. This situation is catastrophic: it is known that an increase of 1 point in interest rates results, according to the figures of the Treasury, in an additional cost of the debt burden of 2 billion euros in the first year, of 4.7 billion the second, and then of almost 19 billion after five years. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Despite common sense, the Government was abandoning its control of expenditure, leaving the structural deficit unchanged and debt to increase. That is why the Republicans Group will not vote on the 2018 Budget Settlement Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u28	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u29	This bill, the second that we are considering under this Parliament, is once again bringing encouraging news. For the second consecutive year, our government deficit is below 3% – it stands at 2.5% to be accurate – which represents an improvement of 0.3% over 2017. This was achieved through a 0.3% decrease in public expenditure volume for the first time in many years. We are particularly pleased with this result, as the BIA projected an increase of 0.6%. This effort to control public expenditure has made it possible to adopt measures which have the effect of reducing the compulsory levy by 0.2 percentage points and bringing it to 45 % of GDP. The government's budget deficit amounts to EUR 76 billion, a substantial improvement of almost 10 billion compared to LFI and 4 billion compared to the amending finance law presented in November 2018. Finally, in line with the 2017 budget, the reserve rate has been lowered from 8 per cent to 3 per cent, again demonstrating the Government's commitment to promoting fiscal sincerity. We welcome these results, which are due not only to higher-than-expected government revenues, but also to the control of spending. Tax revenues have thus improved thanks to higher-than-forecast VAT returns, and to the dynamism of corporate taxes. Expenditure control is due to strict compliance with the government's total spending target set in the BIA and to sincere and robust construction. Sub-budgeting has thus increased from 4.4 billion to 1.5 billion euros – this progress deserves to be highlighted. Consequently, the implementation of the budget in 2018 is marked by the lack of opening and cancellation of appropriations by order-in-council, which is a first in 30 years. We welcome these results, and in particular the reduction in compulsory levies, which is the first step in a development that should particularly benefit taxpayers in the first tax brackets. Finally, we can only welcome the effort of budgetary sincerity, which meets the objectives that we have set ourselves in this Parliament, but also, more pragmatically, the requirements of the Organic Law on Finance Laws. We have heard in recent months a feeling of injustice or even tax exasperation, and we must respond to it. This must be done through a further reduction in taxes, but also through a recalibration of the income tax brackets, so that it is fairer and more in line with the reality experienced by taxpayers. It is clear that more progressive taxation would be better perceived and would strengthen the consent of our fellow citizens to tax. The reduction in tax rates for the first instalments must therefore be an opportunity for a more comprehensive reflection on our income tax system. Public debt has stabilized, for the first time in a decade, at 98.4% of GDP, as in 2017. If we are looking forward to this stabilization, we must not stop our efforts. French public debt now amounts to €2,300 billion, or €800,000 per French household. The debt burden amounts to EUR 45 billion, or EUR 1500 per household. These figures justify the search for a balanced budget. We do not advocate this balance in principle, but because the debt burden represents an unbearable amount, which strikes the state budget when it could be used to much better advantage, whether for the financing of dependency, or education, for ecological investments, or to support the community. Budgetary balance is not a policy in itself, it is above all a requirement for the proper management of public funds. We must do this. Unreasonable management would affect future generations. We are responsible to them, and we owe them to leave public finances to them, not the burden of our excesses. If we can therefore welcome the results of 2018, we must not rely on them, we must continue to work towards the restoration of public finances. The government deficit today is mainly due to the structural deficit, i.e. it is not linked to the economic situation. Much remains to be done in order to address such a deficit and to achieve the objectives set out in the law on public finance programming. We must continue our efforts. In order to achieve France's deleveraging, there are only two solutions: an increase in government revenue or a decrease in expenditure. We are committed not to tax increases. In fact, we have taken the opposite path, with the removal of the housing tax and the commitment to lower the income tax. We have therefore committed ourselves to reducing public spending, which requires a more rigorous management of our money. I am thinking in particular of the tax niches, Mr Minister, which the Court of Auditors regularly highlights the increasing cost. Difficultly controlled, quantified and evaluated, they necessarily lead to an uncontrolled increase in public expenditure, particularly tax expenditure. This is not acceptable today where public money is so scarce and so expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u30	You have to spend less!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Sincerity, seriousness and evaluation must continue to be our compass for the preparation and enforcement of future financial laws. For all these reasons, the MODEM Group will vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u32	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u33	We have just heard this: the Government and the majority welcome a government deficit that is kept below the 3% of GDP threshold, a positive change in the budgetary balance compared to the initial 2018 finance law, a stable revenue and a controlled change in expenditure. With such a presentation, one might say that this text will vote with the eyes closed – except that those of the members of the Socialist and related group are wide open.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u34	Ours, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u35	We have read the various budget documents and schedules, and we also remember the review and provisions of the 2018 Finance Bill. The government deficit is, of course, kept below 3% of GDP in 2018, in line with the fiscal recovery effort since 2012. But we cannot forget that it will change this threshold in 2019, a unique case in the European Union, due to the budgetary and fiscal choices of the Government. The budget balance is actually better than that provided for in the initial finance law for 2018: EUR 76 billion in deficit compared to EUR 85.7 billion. But we see above all a deterioration in relation to the 2017 budget balance, which is characterised by a deficit of €67.7 billion. In concrete terms, the government's budget deficit increased by EUR 8.3 billion between 2017 and 2018; It is expected to exceed the EUR 100 billion mark in 2019! Revenues have stabilized. It's almost an anomaly. In view of the economic recovery we experienced in 2017 and the effects of which continued in 2018, they should have increased sharply, thus reducing the budget deficit. This stagnation is in fact due to tax cuts in 2018. The Socialist and related group is not opposed to tax cuts – they must be directed to those who need them most. However, these declines are the famous "rich plan" of the BIA of 2018, providing for the abolition of the ISF and the implementation of the flat tax. This plan represents 5 billion tax gifts per year, for five years, for the richest French. With regard to a controlled evolution of expenditure, this is again the Government's budgetary choices, which we had fought hard in the autumn of 2017. These are, for example, cuts on APLs or the drastic drop in aided contracts. These assisted contracts allow me to make the transition with the detail of the budget implementation. Not only has their number been significantly reduced, but the complexity of the scheme has not allowed communities and associations to properly grasp the skills employment pathways: out of 200,000 CECs budgeted in the BIA, only 128,000 were created. The analysis of budgetary implementation also shows an under-consumption of payment appropriations of the order of EUR 177 million in the Overseas Mission. In its analysis note on budgetary implementation, the Court of Auditors describes the extent of this under-consumption of appropriations as "unpublished" and recalls that 2017 had experienced an under-fulfilment of the Mission's payment appropriations of only €20 million. These under-consumptions are mainly the result of the questionable choices of the Government, which, for example, have led to a break in housing policy overseas. This policy alone represents 65 of the 177 million unconsumed payment credits in 2018 on the Overseas Mission. The abolition of the APL accession took part in the "abrupt coup d'arrêt", to quote the Government, of the production of housing in overseas countries, which increased from 476 housing units in 2017 to 94 in 2018. The abolition of this aid also led to a collapse of aid for the improvement of private housing in Guadeloupe and Réunion. In addition, the number of social and very social housing units financed by the State decreased by 9.9 per cent, or 478 less. I will conclude by going back to the evaluation work carried out by my colleague Christine Pires Beaune on the "Reimbursements and Discounts" mission. It appeared that 2018 was marked by an explosion in the state's lost corporate tax litigation. The 2018 Finance Act anticipated a level of disbursements resulting from unitary corporate tax litigation of €0.84 billion. In fact, these disbursements amounted to €3.23 billion, a difference of €2.4 billion. In its analysis note on the implementation of the 2018 budget, the Court of Auditors notes that these exceptional corporate tax discharges "were not anticipated by the administration" and acknowledges that it has "not identified any specific causes common to this development of unitary disputes in the IS". What is certain is that the state no longer has sufficient legal expertise to defend its interests in the event of a dispute over the amount of corporate tax to be paid, to the point of having to repay in 2018 more than 3 billion euros to companies. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] As you will understand, the Socialist and Related Group will not vote on the 2018 bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u36	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u37	We meet tonight to close the first fiscal year full of this quinquennium. It is therefore important to bear in mind that, as a result, the results of the implementation of the 2018 budget are the responsibility of the Government and the majority. Let us also bear in mind that the implementation of the state budget in 2018 was marked by the deceleration of activity, with an estimated growth of 1.6%, after 2.3% for 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u38	We warned you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u39	The international economic environment is uncertain, marking a slowdown in growth worldwide. This uncertainty, the trade tensions between the United States and China and the situation in the Persian Gulf can legitimately cause us concern for the future. We have already had the opportunity to say this: the 2018 financial year was marked by a marked improvement in the sincerity of the budget, particularly with regard to expenditure. The "syncrisation" of the budget preparation is reflected in the budget implementation, since the implementation of the expenditure was largely in line with the voted budget. Thus, the closure of the 2018 fiscal year is characterized by a decrease in sub-budgeting, a better controlled execution of public expenditure and the absence of an advance decree in the course of the year. This budget is certainly the most sincere in a decade. This is to be welcomed even if the effort of sincerity is not completely complete – I am thinking in particular of the financing of the OPEXs. Fiscal year 2018 is also marked by a government deficit of below 3% of GDP, at 2.5% of gross domestic product. This second consecutive year of compliance with our European commitment acts in fact our exit from the excessive deficit procedure that has been applied to us since 2009. While this is to be welcomed, we must remain vigilant, as the deficit level remains high and we are still far from a lasting restoration of the balance of our country's public finances. I will take the example of the development of the structural deficit, the one on which public action can and must really act. The latter is almost zero, with only 0.1 percentage points of GDP. The weak improvement in the structural balance is the result of an effort on public expenditure, excluding tax credits, which is almost entirely absorbed by measures to reduce compulsory levies. The structural deficit thus remains far from the medium-term objective set out in the public finance planning law for 2018-2022, which we voted at the beginning of the quinquennium. In fact, the improvement in the public deficit is mainly due to the surplus for the second consecutive year of social security administrations, which amounts to EUR 10.7 billion and, to a lesser extent, to the surplus of local authorities. The government's budget deficit rose to EUR 76 billion in 2018. It is important to be aware that, for the 2018 financial year, the government's revenue covered only nine months of expenditure. So, from October 1st, he lived on credit until December 31st. This must really alert us, just as much as the famous day of overtaking, this day when the human has consumed all the annual resources of our planet. As a result of the increase in the deficit, the debt burden of the State increases by EUR 70 billion. Thus, the debt of all public administrations is stabilized to 98.4% of GDP, but its amount continues to rise to € 2315 billion, while our European neighbours have been reducing theirs for several years now. Finally, even though this implemented budget remains relatively controlled, in accounting, the state's financial situation did not improve in 2018. An illustration of this may be the issuance by the state of medium- and long-term securities in 2018, worth more than €225.4 billion, making us the second largest issuer of the euro area, at a level very close to that of Italy. And, although the interest burden is stabilized at $40 billion thanks to low interest rates, two things must challenge us: firstly, the high amount of 10.8 billion premium on the issue received in 2018 for the fourth consecutive year is well above the amount, 3 billion, set out in the financing table of the initial budget; Secondly, the great difficulty in absorbing the government's deficit and debt in this period of low interest rates seems to put us at real risk in the event of a rise in rates. Perhaps another point is also worth clarifying: the State's revenue was reduced by €2.4 billion as a result of tax disputes that were lost to companies and related to corporate tax. Since the sums involved, which affected the State budget, were not insignificant, special attention must be paid to limiting such disputes. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the IDU and independent group refuses to abandon the objective of a return to balance in the public accounts. This is a commitment that must be made so as not to leave a budget too degraded to succeeding generations. All the work we have done during the spring of the evaluation, including the resolutions supported by the Committee on Finance, has shown how much we need to improve the tools and methods of budgetary evaluation but above all to assess the usefulness of our public policies to enable us to redefine public expenditure and make it more efficient. Whether it is a matter of better piloting the workforce and the payroll of the State, preventing and correcting over-executions and under-executions of financial laws, strengthening the control and evaluation of tax expenditure by public administrations, or improving the budgetary control arrangements by Parliament, we all share the desire to ensure greater efficiency in our public spending. The Court of Auditors also wishes to contribute to the recasting of the performance of public financial management, pointing to the ever-increasing complexity of the State's budgetary framework, the information that has been enriched, at the risk of becoming overabundant, and the incomplete procedures and tools to measure the efficiency of public policies. This common will should enable us to move towards a net reduction in the public deficit and a recovery in public accounts. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LaREM groups]] Budget implementation for 2018 is under control. That is why Members of our group will vote for the majority of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u40	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u41	This year, the review of the Settlement Act is of some importance. This is indeed the first time that we are going to examine the full implementation of the budget by the majority. And we consider the balance to be heavy. Two thousand and eighteen has not been a good year for our country. It was marked by an immense deception: that of your so-called "innovation and industry fund". You should have called it by its real name: "funds to justify privatizations"! It is not I who say this: it is the Court of Auditors, which denounces in its report a "complex and unjustified budgetary mechanism" and explains to us that "This set-up has led to unnecessarily complicated operations, in part to display an allocation of 10 billion financing break-up innovation, whereas in practice 250 million will actually be spent on it annually. » It would be enough for you to replace this fund with a single budget line of EUR 250 million per year for innovation. It would be much more legible for all French, as well as for national representation and for national accounts – but I know why you are doing this: it is that you want to justify the unjustifiable, namely the privatisation of our national flagships, which you have decided to deliver to the appetites of shareholders. The unjustifiable is to have privatized one of our borders, Aéroports de Paris. The unjustifiable is to catapult the French with games in the stomach of private interests, while there are public health issues, especially in relation to addiction to games. The unjustifiable is to place Engie in the greedy hands of the market, when we were assured, at the time of the opening of its capital, that there was no question of privatizing the company – and yet we are there. And one will pretend to be surprised that energy prices continue to rise, to the greatest despair of the French! The unjustifiable is that your innovation fund is just words. The Court of Auditors points out that this fund is not really sanctified, which, in plain terms, means that the EUR 10 billion resulting from privatisations could at any time be recovered by the State and no longer be invested in innovation. The unjustifiable is that revenues from public participations are greater than the interests of this fund – as we have said on many occasions. It is hoped that the latter will amount to EUR 250 million a year, while the former is three times higher. The brutality and inconsequence of these decisions will, I hope, jump in the eyes of the French. As you know, we are fighting for 4.7 million signatures to be able to hold a referendum against the privatization of Paris airports. I have good news for you, Minister: we held a first meeting this evening, between parliamentarians from different benches of the Assembly; This meeting has met with a success that speaks volumes and gives us the hope of getting the required number of signatures. The year 2018 is another year in which the state is moving backwards. In 2018, the net expenditure of the general state budget, amounting to €325.2 billion, was implemented at a level of €1.1 billion below what was provided for in the original finance law. The Government has therefore declined: it spent even less than promised in its first finance bill. For the year 2018, we are still being tightened up the old soup of austerity, of the need for a deficit contained. The increase in expenditure is, in absolute terms, very meagre – 0.3% – but, compared to that of the French population, which, and this is good news, continues to increase, spending has actually decreased by 1.8%. This is the price of submission to the dogma of austerity. You are sacrificing the state to an ideology that is almost mystical, as it shines by the lack of concrete results that it would bring to the country, as well as to the other countries that suffer it in Europe. Indeed, despite the quarantine of public spending, the government's budget deficit increased further, from €67.7 billion in 2017 to €76 billion in 2018. The fault of what? The fault of revenue from the State is constantly decreasing. Oh, the decreases did not benefit everyone: the tax gifts that Emmanuel Macron has given – if I may say so – to the French have benefited only the richest. This is another cause of the state's decline. The Government's only record in 2018 was a reduction in mandatory levies of 16.5 billion euros, a level that had never been reached since 2009. These tax cuts are unfairly targeted. They are an opportunity for a minority of French people to benefit from more and more advantages: €3.2 billion in gains with the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth and the creation of the property tax; 1.6 billion euros with the introduction of the single flat-rate levy, which, by the way, cost 300 million more than expected, while we warned you of the bounty effect this would cause, with an increase in dividend payments; €3.5 billion with the increase in the tax credit for competitiveness and employment; EUR 1.2 billion with the reduction of the corporate tax rate. There was also the removal of the 3% dividend tax, which was certainly invalidated by the Constitutional Council, but which was no less unfair and beneficial to the richest. On the other hand, you do not have the same lack of respect for the poor, because non-progressive taxes, therefore the most unfair ones, have increased by EUR 4.1 billion in energy taxation and by EUR 0.9 billion as a result of various measures to increase VAT, particularly in the housing and construction sectors. These figures contrast with the increase in the French contribution to the European Union, which, curiously, is growing by more than EUR 4 billion, with more than EUR 733 million more than the initial forecast – this is one of the only sectors where it is so outdated! The year 2018 visibly marks the opening of a festival, that of cancellations of credits. Indeed, a number of appropriations that had been passed as part of the 2018 Finance Bill were neither consumed in 2018 nor carried over to 2019. Here is a small florilege of undeferred cancellations of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations: EUR 530.3 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 19.6 million in payment appropriations for the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs"; EUR 454.7 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 13.3 million in payment appropriations for the Cohesion of the Territories mission; EUR 1.2 billion in commitment authorities and EUR 102 million in payment appropriations for the Defence Mission; EUR 72.5 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 73.8 million in payment appropriations for the Overseas Mission; EUR 2.4 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 14.2 million in payment appropriations for the work and employment mission. However, they are essential ministries both in social terms and in terms of defence and ecology! These appropriations will not be used, although they have been voted on and there is no shortage of needs. I would like to say a few words about the budget of which I am the Special Rapporteur, namely that of the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility". The downsizing is continuing in a ministry that is essential if we are to take seriously the issue of ecological and solidarity-based transition. While there is an urgent need, as a result of climate change, at a constant perimeter, in 2018, the Mission's spending decreased by 3%. Colleagues, it is inconceivable to continue to reduce the workforce of a department that has already lost 27,000 full-time equivalents in ten years. This is considerable, and it also affects the department's operators. And all this for what? You constantly promise the prosperity in the start-up nation that you are bragging about, but the least we can say is that your economic results, measured against the same criterion of growth, are bad! Growth slowed from 2.3% in 2017 to 1.6% in 2018, down from 1.8% in the euro area and 3.7% in the world. So you didn't solidify the French economy. Moreover, when you had to grant, at the beginning of 2019, EUR 10 billion for popular consumption under the pressure of the yellow vest movement, the figures of the French economy have improved somewhat, especially compared to those of the rest of Europe, which shows that what is needed is not a supply policy, but a demand policy. You're getting used to the 1% increase in household purchasing power in 2018, but what you're not saying is that if we measure the cumulative effects of the measures taken in 2018 and 2019, the country's richest 1% had an average annual gain of €3016, and the richest 0.1% had an increase of 17.5% in their disposable income. You will therefore understand that we consider your budget to be what we have been denouncing for a long time, namely a budget for the rich – and that does not run at all over the rest of the French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u42	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u43	This bill is important in two ways. First, this is the first review of a full fiscal year since the Government and the majority are in power. This first assessment is positive in two ways, and that is why the majority will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u44	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u45	The latter testifies to the Government's credibility in carrying out its policy of restoring purchasing power and freeing the economy while controlling public spending. It also testifies to the serious budget of the Government in its forecasts, with a view to "sinizing" public finances. The reserve rate was reduced from 8 per cent to 3 per cent and no advance orders were issued.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u46	The bigger it is, the better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u47	This bill is also important because it concludes the second spring of the evaluation organized by the National Assembly. Thanks to the efforts of the Government and the Court of Auditors to advance the timetable for the submission of the draft regulation, the annual performance reports and the budget implementation notes, Parliament was able to have all the tools available to conduct the evaluation. Parliament takes its monitoring and evaluation role very seriously, as evidenced by its decision to submit motions for resolutions which, although technical, should enable a real improvement in the management of public finances, in the interest of the taxpayer. The motions for resolutions that have been considered over the past two days have provided an opportunity to take stock of issues that emerge from this bill. The majority put forward four resolutions, which were adopted very broadly – and I thank my colleagues for them – and had as their theme, for the first, the management of the State's payroll, through the request for a document gathering all the data for a detailed follow-up of the evolution of the latter, for the second, the control of under-executions and over-executions, for the third, the control of tax expenditure, a problem which the majority decided to take hand-in-hand with a "radar setting", to take up the expression of my colleague François Jolivet, and a better follow-up by the business ministries, for the last, finally, the improvement of the budgetary control arrangements. If we had imagined last year the creation of a parliamentary evaluation office, whose abandonment can be regretted, there are many other avenues for improving evaluation. After this quick review of the spring of the evaluation, I would like to highlight the highlights of fiscal year 2018. As special rapporteur for the State's financial commitments, I cannot begin by talking about debt developments, which is one of the main issues for the majority and the Government. Our efforts in this area must not stop at the 2018 Finance Act. While the debt experienced an upward revaluation for the second consecutive year, the debt burden is contained, which is a sign of the exceptional nature of the current financing conditions. There are numerous articles on debt and debt burdens. Orthodox economists pass the ford. Some, such as Olivier Blanchard, former Chief Economist of the International Monetary Fund, have somewhat shaken the ideas received by relativising, in a presentation to the Peterson Institute entitled "Public debt and low interest rates", the risks of excessive debt by states in a context where the rate of economic growth is higher than interest rates. Jean Pisani-Ferry, for his part, proposes to use the savings made on the debt burden to make useful investments, such as those necessary for the ecological transition. Others, such as Vítor Constâncio, former Vice-President of the European Central Bank, propose a review of the European 3% deficit rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u48	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u49	I'm not saying I agree with these economists or that they're right. On the other hand, it seems to me that the small music they play must be heard by the National Assembly. It would be important for the Finance Committee to debate these issues – a pity that President Woerth is no longer here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u50	We'll pass it on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u51	It should also be noted that the budgetary results for 2018 were marked by a particularly agitated economic and social context, namely the social movements caused by the railway reform and the movement of yellow vests, which appeared in response to the massive increase in the price of the barrel of oil. The global economic slowdown caused by increased trade tensions has not spared France, although our country has been able to find, if not a certain degree of consistency, at least stability. All these events testify to the unpredictable nature of the context in which our public finances evolve from year to year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We do not live in a stable universe, but in a world of upheavals, shaken by urgency, immediacy and the need to react constantly. These rapid changes affect us, make us capsize our landmarks and those of our fellow citizens, who no longer have compasses, rely on populists and demagogues. Faced with this increase in uncertainty, the role of the State is to bring a form of consistency and resilience through its decisions. This is the subject of Act II of the quinquennium initiated by the Prime Minister's general policy speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u52	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u53	Bill to regulate the budget, moment of truth for the government and for your majority, minister! This is indeed the first financial year under the sole responsibility of the new majority. The Court of Auditors deplores a structural deficit far removed from the original objective. This, in the programming law, had been set at 0.4 percentage points of GDP, compared to 2.1 percentage points today. This comparison is not flattering for you. I note that the result of the 2018 budget implementation confirms this government's renunciation, your renunciation, Minister, on the balance of public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u54	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u55	Suffer that I'll make you hear another truth... In 2018, the deficit stood at EUR 76 billion. You're talking about an improvement. Of course. Improvements are made in comparison with initial financial registrations. In 2017, however, the deficit stood at 67.7 billion. To 76 billion in 2018, far from improving, the balance declined by 9 billion. You can count as you like, the reality is this: the deficit has grown in volume. You have, in fact, lowered the main financial indicators: abandoning the return to balance of public finances in 2022 – your new deficit target is set at 1.2 percentage points of GDP; Abandonment of the 5-point reduction in public debt, with a new target of 1.6 points, and an increase of 1.2 points in 2018. It is a reality: public debt is increasing. So we can't talk about improvement. Finally, with regard to reducing public spending, your target is now 2.1 points, compared to 3.3 points initially. If this majority considers these figures to be good, we do not have the same reading; We didn't even go to the benches at the same school. All of this, Minister, does not demonstrate good management, on the contrary. The figures attest to this, you did not manage to reduce public spending in 2018, as it increases by 24.5 billion euros compared to 2017. I'm saying 24.5 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u56	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u57	You tried to convince us that you had reduced the volume of expenditures, by a subterfuge that excluded tax credits. But, fortunately, this did not deceive the vigilance of the Court of Auditors, which reminded you of the rule. In practice, there have been no structural savings. The Prime Minister's latest announcements have not been accompanied by any euro of financing. That's disturbing. As for your commitment to reduce the number of public jobs, again, the opposite effect has been observed. In the end, it is another renunciation of an objective which, however, was not ambitious. Your mistakes directly affect the taxation of businesses and households. How can our companies regain competitiveness to invest and recruit if the tax burden remains on them at this level, in fierce international competition? How can we sustain the purchasing power of households in a sustainable way by reducing the income tax of the middle classes with such a high level of compulsory levies and public debt? As you said in your opening remarks, Minister, you have, however, received additional revenue from VAT, amounting to EUR 4.3 billion, and ICTPE, amounting to EUR 2.6 billion. The deficit is falling, and the Government and the majority are constantly repeating it. The reality is quite different: it increases by 12.3% in 2018, more than total income tax revenues. The government you belong to is Europe's bad student, with a public deficit of 2.5% of GDP in 2018. Other indicators are equally alarming in comparison with our euro area partners. As a result, our trade deficit has increased by 3%; investment – combined enterprises, households and public administrations – fell by 38%; Finally, growth is expected to reach 1.4% in 2019, up from 2.3% in 2017. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] This data, indisputable, is proof that there is a problem, as is the number of motions for resolutions tabled by your majority and recently examined, whether it is on the assessment of the size of the State, on the over and under-executions, on the steering and evaluation of public expenditure or on budgetary control by Parliament. All these proposals were voted unanimously. It is therefore urgent to reassure your ranks or to change your method.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u58	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u59	The settlement law is an important exercise, which was able to find a little more place in our Chamber with the spring of the evaluation. But, for the parliamentarians we are, minister, it is a somewhat fictitious exercise, in that we cannot cancel the cancellations of appropriations that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u61	When credits have not been consumed, there are two options: either they are carried forward or they are cancelled. But it is forbidden for us to choose between these two options – only you can do so, Minister – so that we are reduced to seeing the choices made by the Government, which, you will agree, is somewhat frustrating. Like last year, we would have liked to have been able to cancel certain cancellations of appropriations, which have increased further compared to last year. In Article 4, you cancel 7 billion euros of commitment authorisations and 1 billion euros of payment appropriations. In concrete terms, you cancel €36 million of commitment authorisations on the "Heritage" programme – mainly – while the fire at Notre-Dame has highlighted the immense needs that exist for heritage maintenance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u63	You also cancel €454 million of commitment authorisations, which focus on the "urbanism, territories and habitat improvement" programme – as if, in this area too, there were no real needs. You still cancel €1.2 billion of commitment authorizations on the Defence Mission, including €855 million on the "Preparation and Use of Forces" programme. Of these €855 million, €213 million was not consumed due to the postponement of the contract contract for the technical shutdown of the Le Terrible submarine in 2019. Why has this contract been postponed and not the commitment authorisations? There is a slight bias on this point too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u64	That's weird!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u65	At the moment, the Salon du Bourget is being held, where those who love planes have been able to admire the beautiful A400M. While the contracts for the support of this aircraft are being continued and postponed, the commitment authorisations are not: they are cancelled to the tune of EUR 491 million. Among the other findings of this bill is the issue of staffing, which we discussed last night. As the rapporteur-general's report clearly shows, the number of full-time equivalents in 2018 is 26287, which is less than the ceiling, half of them in national education alone and 4923 in the Ministry of the Interior. Another question that the game of the settlement law leads us to ask: were departments able to benefit from the payment appropriations that the majority had voted for? We also had the opportunity to address this issue last night, to note, Minister, that it is almost always the same missions that are under-executing. Two conclusions are therefore possible: either our assembly votes, to please itself, a budget finally not consumed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u66	[[Smile]] That's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u67	I don't know: for my part, I didn't vote for it. Why don't you put the question to your majority?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u68	What you describe existed before her!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u69	No doubt but, in any case, it still exists today. Second hypothesis, I said, since you have refused the decrees in advance and other law of amending finance, you prefer to keep your hand on the distribution of appropriations, which leaves you a lot of power but is a little frustrating for Parliament. In 2018, the "Justice" mission thus under-consumpted 116 million compared to what had been voted; the "Relationship with local and regional authorities" mission, 89 million euros; the "Health" mission, 17 million euros. The amounts were already almost as high last year. The mission "External action of the State", it, under-consumed 37 million euros, and the mission "Official development aid", 67 million euros. Veterans also do not escape this dry under-consumption regime, with less than 34 million euros, nor does the mission "Culture", which, as every year, under-consumes its appropriations, to the tune of 24 million euros this year, compared with 62 million last year. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] In conclusion, I will not go back to the course you have set for your economic policy. We do not share it, because we believe that it does not meet the imperatives of reducing inequality and supporting the creation of economic activity in our country. To express our opposition to your economic policy, we have tabled a somewhat technical amendment on the famous structural deficit. In fact, it reflects in our view the worsening of the state of public finances, simply because you have decided to amplify, to a significant extent, certain revenues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u70	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u71	To hear the Government, it would be necessary to build on the results achieved in the 2018 budget. What about it? The year 2018 was marked by a management of the state's spending in line with the initial forecast, that is true. Expenditure, however, continues to grow, although, I very much agree, it does so at a slower pace. Overall, the increase in the deficit was contained at a significantly lower level than that provided for in the original Finance Act. However, for the first time since 2014, and after three years of quasi-stability, the government's budget deficit increased in 2018, from €67.7 billion in 2017 to €76 billion in 2018, or 23.4% of the general budget's net expenditure, compared to 21% in 2017. Clearly, this means that France's revenues cover only nine months of government spending and that, in 2018, deficit and debt continued to increase. Let me remind you, if you don't mind, of some key figures. The net position of the State accounts is strongly negative, amounting to EUR 1296 billion as at 31 December 2018. This figure doesn't say much to neophytes like me, but it represents four years of tax revenue! And it continues to grow, according to the Court of Auditors, according to which "in 2006, during the first certification exercise led by the Court, the net position of the State's accounts represented "only "two years" of tax products. This reflects a very marked deterioration in the financial situation of the State. According to the Court of Auditors, "the State's liability is more than double its assets". And to speak more clearly, what the state must represent more than twice what it owns. Let us remain in concrete terms: with 76 billion euros, as I said, the state deficit accounts for 23.4% of the net expenditure of its budget, i.e. 4 billion euros more than the expenditure of the mission "School education" or 3 billion more than income tax revenues. So how do I do it? In fact, France is also marked by one of the highest compulsory tax rates in the world, with 48.4% of GDP in 2017, according to Eurostat. I'll give you a few leads. The first is the fight against tax fraud. I confess that I do not really subscribe to the ideological discourse of some NGOs, according to which the tax evasion of companies in France would deprive the state of 60 to 80 billion euros each year. This figure is largely biased, according to the very instructive book of the Circle of Taxers, The Tax Intox. Unfortunately, this overestimation of tax evasion gives the Government the impression that it is not the State to make savings, but rather that taxpayers must be more controlled and punished. This approach does not convince me: I prefer to him the solution of "relaxation of rates", proposed by the same Circle of Taxists. There are other solutions. And since we have to deal with the issues that are annoying, I am happy to do the exercise. Take the example of the implementation of the "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" mission. It is again marked by the increase in asylum applications in 2018, with the direct consequence, of course, of the increase in the asylum-seeker's allowance. The appropriations for this mission were significantly increased in the initial 2018 finance law, to 10.3% in commitment authorities and 25.8% in payment appropriations. But that is still not enough! And that is not surprising since, according to the Court of Auditors, the programming of the expenditure corresponding to the asylum-seeker's allowance is based on assumptions of the delay in processing asylum applications – 60 days – and of the increase in their number – 10 % of the overall asylum application – which appear "optimistic", according to the term of the Court of Auditors – for my part, I would say "very undervalued", with regard to the data for 2017: 185 days of average processing time and an increase in applications of 17.3 %. According to the Court of Auditors, this increase creates a "risk of budgetary unsustainability of the mission". Programming for 2019 will not improve the budgetary situation, as it foresees an overrun of the 2019 ceiling of €201.7 million at constant scope. The estimate is particularly insinuated by the assumptions put forward: zero growth in asylum claims and 60-day processing times by OFPRA, while there is already a 6.2% increase in asylum claims for the first four months of the current year. The assumptions are therefore totally unrealistic, and even at the limit of bad faith, I am afraid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u72	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u73	Last year at the same time, to the right of our benches, we were told a slippage of public finances while on the left we were accused of sacrificing the purchasing power of the middle classes by pursuing a policy of austerity. Bad pick, ladies and gentlemen: that is not the case; current indicators are generally good. Indeed, for the first year of full fiscal year since we assumed responsibility, public expenditure has been controlled, from 55 per cent to 54.4 per cent of gross domestic product; the government deficit amounts to 2.5% of GDP, compared to 2.8% in 2017; compulsory levies have been reduced from 45.2% to 45% of GDP, and the debt burden is finally stabilizing. Let us not forget, moreover, that we have finally left the excessive deficit procedure which the European Commission opened against us in 2009. On the purchasing power front, our policy is also already bearing fruit: after reaching 1.2% in 2018, the increase is expected to be close to 2% in 2019. Moreover, as the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques points out, it mainly benefits the middle and popular classes. We thus prove that reducing the compulsory levies on French and companies in order to boost the economic activity of our country does not contradict the seriousness of the budget. The good results I have cited in terms of expenditure have been made possible, in particular, by the efforts to launch the budget, following a 2017 finance law which the Court of Auditors had described as "unincentive" in the summer of 2017. Thus, the Government decided, as early as 2018, to reduce the precautionary reserve from 8% to 3%, not to submit an advance decree, for the first time since the implementation of the LOLF, and not to use an amending finance law during the year. As chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, I am particularly pleased that our majority has fulfilled their commitments to local authorities by maintaining their allocations and that the communities themselves have honoured the contract by controlling the increase in their spending below 1.2%: everyone, I believe, wins. We are in the process of regaining confidence, at a time when financial contracting is part of a broader set of territorial pacts between communities and the state. The spring of the evaluation, on the other hand, imposed itself as a highlight of the budget schedule, and the review of the proposed Regulations is greatly improved – this finding, I believe, is unanimous. Thanks to the establishment of the public policy evaluation commissions, it is now possible to ask each minister – that is the least of the things, you will tell me – to report on the execution and results of the previous year, so to monitor the Government's action more effectively. In particular, the measure of the effectiveness of public policies could be improved, a point shared by the Court of Auditors in its annual report. As part of the modernisation of public action, we must ensure that we are better connected with the performance approach. Improvement could also involve the creation of a bill to finance local authorities, or, at the very least, an amendment to the LOLF – probably easier to implement – in order to consolidate and unify local finance budget documents. This aspect would be the subject of a specific debate, or even a vote, on an article summarizing the transfers from the State to local and regional authorities during the examination of the financial laws. This would contribute to a more secure and predictable fiscal relationship between the state and communities. It is also, as we know, a recurrent request from our friends the associations of local elected representatives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] By respecting our fiscal campaign commitments, by controlling public spending and by helping to improve its assessment, we are doing everything we can to restore confidence in our fellow citizens and our economic partners, which is an indispensable condition for reviving our country's activity and transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u74	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u75	I now call the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u76	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1 and 24, which may be put to a joint debate. The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor to support Amendment No 1 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u77	I will be brief, since we have discussed it at length in committee. As I said in my opening statement, the bill was passed in Council of Ministers before INSEE published its final accounts. The amendment tends to bring the text into line with the figures which INSEE has now made available and which are indeed better than expected, with growth reaching 2.3% in 2017, instead of 2.2%, and 1.7% in 2018, instead of 1.6%. It simply aims to update the introductory article, bearing in mind that the amending opinion issued – for the first time – by the High Council for Public Finance does not present a fundamental change from the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u78	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u79	The object is somewhat technical. The potential growth, that is, the growth we would have if the country's economy were to function fully, is by definition an invisible indicator, since this condition is never fully satisfied. However, it is used in the European calculation of the structural deficit. We have recalculated it against the estimate proposed in the proposed regulation, to incorporate into management the events of the end of 2018, which have degraded the structural balance, which corresponds to an effect not of the economic situation but of the very structuring of our public finances. We thus revalue the structural deficit at 2.5 per cent of GDP, which represents a deviation from the Government's figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u80	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u81	The same as every year on this type of amendment: it is not up to the proposed regulation to reconsider assumptions that have been established by the Public Finance Programming Act. I am surprised, however, because we used to have amendments that do the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u82	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u83	The amendment increases the short-term deficit to the detriment of structural funds;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u84	No, it's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u85	...so far, it was the opposite. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u86	The Minister for Public Action and Accounts has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u87	Favourable to Amendment No 1; Request for the withdrawal of Amendment No 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u88	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u89	We owe the initiative to Charles de Courson. Currently, the High Council for Public Finance only decides on the revenue of the draft finance law. In the light of the audit on public finances issued by the Court of Auditors on 29 June 2017, which had identified serious sub-budgeting in the 2017 Finance Bill, it seems appropriate for the High Council to be able to decide on the spending of the upcoming Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u91	Charles de Courson has kindly withdrawn in committee this amendment which, in my view, falls within the scope of the organic law. He intended to resubmit it for the meeting in order to obtain from the Government and myself the promise of a favourable opinion in the event that he would make it an amendment to the reform of the LOLF. I heard his request; I have not answered it, and I will not answer it any more today. I repeat, the amendment does not have its place in this text. I therefore ask you to withdraw it; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u93	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u94	Are you withdrawing the amendment, Mr Castellani?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u95	This is difficult for me, since I am not the first signatory. I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u96	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u97	It is the first of a dozen amendments calling for a report – it is the artifice we have found to open a discussion and get explanations about certain cancellations. This is the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission, which undergoes a cancellation, in commitment authorisations, of 530 million euros, or 20% of the EAs consumed in 2018: this is not nothing! [[Smile]] However, I have not understood anything about the explanation provided by the annual performance report, Minister. I'll read it to you; You'll explain it to me. The EA sub-consumptions would correspond to "old and inactive legal disengagements achieved mainly at the end of management 2018 under several measures managed by the Service and Payment Agency, as part of the follow-up to the MMAI audit no. 11042-02 on the reliability of accounting and monitoring of commitments entrusted to the ASP in 2012. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u98	It's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u100	This is indeed a series of amendments, some of which were tabled and subsequently withdrawn at my request in committee, in order to obtain explanations from the minister on the bench concerning the under-consumption found. As I said in my opening remarks, if we introduced the spring of the evaluation, it is precisely to ask the minister such questions during this evaluation phase of all missions. These requests for reports therefore seem to me to be perfectly super-fetivating. In addition, some of the issues raised – but not necessarily the ones we are talking about – were answered by ministers at the meetings of the public policy assessment committees. Request for withdrawal and, failing that, unfavorable opinion on all of these amendments. I will not take the floor again on the following.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u101	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u102	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u103	Madam President, first of all I would like to stress – after Mrs Rabault, as well as the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Finance, whom I thank for having done so – that the Government, thanks to the work of my teams, has been able to move forward with the sending of various budget documents, including the annual performance reports. I am also grateful to the first President of the Court of Auditors; We have done a lot of work on this, and we may be working on it even further next year. If, as a result of this advancement, a few semicolon or comma points have jumped and this is an obstacle to discussion, I hear it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u104	It's not just a few commas!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u105	A few semicolon points, though. So I'll answer your questions. Firstly, as far as the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is concerned, there is no discussion to have since, whether with Mr Travert yesterday or with Mr Guillaume today, the appropriations have been the subject of consensual technical exchanges. The cancellations in question are not the result of bad evaluations. There was, in fact, no reason to defer these appropriations since the Minister of Public Action and Public Accounts and the Minister of Agriculture did not ask for it. And, as the rapporteur-general said very well, miscalculations would have been detected in the spring of the evaluation. More specifically, with regard to the cancellation of EUR 530.3 million of commitment authorisations and EUR 19.6 million of payment appropriations not consumed in 2018 and not carried over, it is due to the consumption of commitment authorisations minus EUR 503 million, taking into account the withdrawals made at the end of management and outside Title 2 of Programme 149 "Competitiveness and sustainability of agriculture, agri-food, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture", in accordance with the recommendations of the audit carried out by the General Food Council, notably in May 2012 – Ms Rabault may recall – on the reliability of the accounting and monitoring of the commitments of the operations of the ASP, renewed audit in July 2017. These operations correspond to the disengagement of old and inactive legal commitments – indeed, we could have discussed them in the spring of the evaluation, rapporteur-general, but I am very happy to reply to the honourable Member – about the disengagements, I said, managed by the ASP. These are subsidised loans used, for many of them, for the installation and modernisation of farms, some 20 years ago, and which are now less efficient as a result of the long-term fall in interest rates – 220 million euros have thus been decommitted – old agricultural and forestry investment programmes that have been completed for several years, sometimes for more than 10 years – 150 million euros have been decommitted – as well as old state intervention schemes such as those for water works which have since been transferred to local authorities – 30 million euros have been decommitted for this purpose. Secondly, the consumption of payment appropriations was reduced by around 16.5 million euros due to the lower requirements of programmes 206 "Safety and quality of food", and 215 "Direction and management of agricultural policies". In addition, €81.2 million of payment appropriations have been carried over to 2019 and will therefore be largely sufficient to meet the needs, in particular, of the major investment plan and those related to the replacement of the "occasional workers job seekers" scheme – TODE – which occupied part of our evenings last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u106	I therefore understand, minister, that your opinion is unfavourable. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u107	I know that the management of commitment authorizations is a real mess for a whole bunch of departments: there are always EAs that go around, corresponding to legal commitments that have passed a year or two years ago and that go into nature because we do not make the right refunds. It is true that the Chorus software package improved last year with massive EI refunds that were dragging around here or there. The broom car may have passed due to technical developments. So part of the answer is to be found here, although I understand that some analyses have evolved. Legal commitment is a budgetary forecast, in a way, the payment appropriations constitute execution in the strict sense. All this is tantamount to reminding me, from my point of view, and not to make me even more abscons than the minister, that we have had a whole debate on budget implementation along the water. Yesterday, a motion for a resolution was adopted so that the state of appropriations could be available after eight months, that is, at the time when the finance bill is being prepared. It is a question of having the data for year n-1, those for the current year as implemented after eight months, so that we can project ourselves towards the future. I have a technical proposal to make, even if I am probably too late – sleep sometimes leads to good ideas. Would it not be interesting to give all the finance commissioners, perhaps even the collaborators of the groups attached to the Finance Committee, access in consultation with the Chorus software package for the entire budget programme?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u108	It's done! You have access to it, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u109	Can we access the Chorus software package?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u110	You have access to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u111	Even me?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u112	You've received a letter about this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u113	Such a mail wouldn't have escaped me...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u114	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u115	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The commitment I made last year has been fulfilled: as the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Finance know, I have written to the President of the House who himself has informed all Members that they and their staff have access to the entire data of the Chorus software package. So you're not a victim of any segregation, if I may say so. We can always improve the information of parliamentarians, but this is an important step forward, and Mr Coquerel, I believe, was in committee when we referred to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u116	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u117	A system called Lex Impact, intended for Members, can be used to measure the impact of an amendment, for example. This tool could be improved but already allows a start of encryption. I am not sure that all Members will have access to it, as this device is still running out of steam.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u118	Yes, they have access to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u119	Services have access to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u120	Services have access to them. And this system is attached to the Chorus software package.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u121	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u122	In committee, the rapporteur-general had asked me to withdraw my amendments before I even defended them. That is what I have done so that we can discuss it in the sitting. It is indeed difficult, having only three members of our group in the Committee on Finance, to be available to discuss the budgets of all the missions. As far as this amendment is concerned, I have found the answers I have received interesting, particularly with regard to the non-consumption of subsidized loans – this is useful information. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u123	You have the floor, Mrs Pires Beaune, to support Amendment No 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u124	This amendment concerns the official development assistance (ODA) mission. Some EUR 172 million of unconsumed and undeferred commitment authorisations are cancelled. This represents 6% of the commitment authority consumed in 2018. I may not have looked very well, but I did not find the projects that were cancelled. I assume that cancelling EAs is because some humanitarian projects may have been eliminated. Perhaps you can confirm to us, Minister, that the commitment of the President of the Republic to increase official development assistance to 0.55% of gross national income – GNI – in 2022 will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u125	The committee has already given an unfavourable opinion. What is the Government's?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u126	The level of cancellation of the appropriations you are referring to for official development assistance is, of course, not carried over. As I said for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, it has been the subject of consensual technical exchanges between administrations and corresponds well to the appropriations actually needed in management 2019. On the other hand, for EUR 160 million out of EUR 172 million, the amount of cancellation is the result of withdrawals of authorisations linked to previous multiannual commitments, which have become irrelevant as a result of the evolution of the underlying expenditure mentioned in the ODA mission. In particular, it is the shift from the International Finance Facility for Immunization – as the chairman of the committee who speaks of the picard patois – to the Solidarity Fund for Development, which is without impact – 85 million euros – to the downward revision, in a context of low rates, of the loan subsidies to the Green Climate Fund, the amount of which remains unchanged – 53 million euros – and the recasting of the budgetary support scheme committed in 2011 – 20 million euros. Secondly, the EUR 4 million transfer decree referred to in the summary statement of your amendment corresponds to the support of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs for the hosting of the next World Nature Congress of the International Union for Conservation of Nature – clearly a French priority of official development assistance. Finally, with regard to the commitment to raise the PDA to 0.55% of GNI, we will soon be able to discuss it in the context of the review of the finance bill for 2020, with the debate on the direction of public finances even allowing us to consider the next three years. The Government, in any case, is thinking about it with Jean-Yves Le Drian – I would like to take this opportunity to commend the work of MP Berville, who proposed, in his 2018 report, that a policy text on development aid be discussed. Please be aware, Madam Member, that, on this and other matters, the promise of the President of the Republic will be kept.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u127	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u128	Here too, we would like clarification on the cancellation of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations not consumed in 2018 and not carried over from the Cohesion of the Territories mission, for a total of 454.7 million euros, which focus on the "urbanism, territories and habitat improvement" programme. We also want to know more about the cancellation of unconsumed and undeferred payment appropriations for this mission, amounting to EUR 13.3 million. We looked, without really finding any explanation for these cancellations. We have hypothesized that the slowdown in social housing activity can explain this, unless cancellations result from the Government's poor choice of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u129	What is the Government's opinion, on the understanding that the Commission has already given an unfavourable opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u130	This last explanation would probably have helped you, Madam Member, but it is unfounded. If 454.7 million euros of commitment authorisations were not consumed in 2018 and were not carried over, this is for a technical reason linked to the assistance funds paid to the National Stone Aid Fund, the famous FNAP, under the "urbanism, territories and habitat improvement" programme. Payment appropriations once consumed, when covering previous commitments, must cancel commitment authorities. The proposed regulation does not, therefore, cancel payment appropriations here, but rather cancel commitment authorizations. This cancellation therefore has no particular impact on housing policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u131	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u132	This amendment concerns the "Heritage" programme, which we have unfortunately mentioned at length in connection with the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral. I really do not understand why EUR 35.7 million of unconsumed and undeferred commitment authorisations are cancelled while the needs of the heritage are important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u133	What is the opinion of the Government, since the opinion of the Commission is, here too, unfavourable?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u134	You are well aware of the state budget, Madam President Rabault, and in particular the habits – perhaps bad – of the Ministry of Culture, like other ministries, but especially of it. I had opened myself to Mrs Nyssen shortly after I took office, and then again to Mr Riester, his successor. The Ministry of Culture, with preserved means – its budget increases even slightly – does not consume all its appropriations. He even has the unfortunate habit of asking early credit thaws so, I repeat, he does not consume all of them. So far, apart from those of the Court of Auditors which, for reasons of independence, I have been willing to thaw at the request of the first President Migaud, I have not thawed any other appropriations, especially since we have reached the ceiling of 3 % of appropriations which can be carried forward. So in the Ministry of Culture there is this tradition of not consuming its credits, which is a bit of a shame, you will admit. I have reminded the minister, I have just said so, and I will soon have the opportunity to remind him again. In addition, the Ministry of Culture has not requested a year-over-year carry-over of the appropriations in question. I do not know whether we are voting budgets to please ourselves, Mrs Rabault, but what is certain, and I have told Members on several occasions, is that there is no point in putting appropriations in order not to consume them, and this repeatedly; Nor is it useful, if we are concerned about budgetary sincerity – and I am speaking to the majority as well as the opposition – to have appropriations added by way of amendment in December, when we have all been working on the budget for a very long time, and to realize, in the end, that they have not been consumed. This was the case with the Ministry of Culture, therefore, but also with the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Overseas Affairs. When it is found that the cancellations of appropriations or under-executions exceed the amounts of appropriations voted by way of amendments, parliamentarians of both the majority and the opposition argue to the Minister of Public Accounts, but also to each minister, in committee during the preparation of the budget or at the time of the consideration of the bill, that such a practice is not a good budgetary policy. So the Government did not want to cancel credits from the "Heritage" program to save candlesticks. How can this chronic under-implementation of certain budget lines be corrected? When the Minister of Public Action and Accounts says, "Obviously, you will not consume your credits. To withdraw credits does not mean to cancel your policy since you do not consume them", you imagine the smile of those to whom this speech is addressed; They say: "If this year we will consume our credits. We'll see what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u135	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u136	It follows the same logic as the previous amendment concerning, this time, the "Defence" mission. A particular remark, however, concerning the cancellation of credits due to the technical shutdown of the submarine The Terrible: the market has been postponed but not the commitment authorization. Similarly, the commitment of contracts to support the A400M military transport aircraft was deferred, but not the commitment authority. I confess that I do not understand: if you postpone a program, you reduce the envelope compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u137	The committee's opinion is unfavourable. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u138	Madam Member, I find it difficult to understand your argument. There is a law on military programming and these appropriations have been allocated in the budget estimates. I would like to give you a written answer with the Minister of the Armed Forces regarding large investment files, but in any case there is no circle. There is a military programming law: these EAs are open, and they will also be in the budget that we will present to you in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u139	Then you don't have to cancel those credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u140	They are cancelled because they were not consumed in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u141	They had to be postponed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u142	[[Smile]] The Decree on budgetary management and public accounting prevents them from being carried forward. They are technically cancelled before being reopened because the controller applies the GBCP decree which does not allow the postponement. That said, France will always have submarines!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u143	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u144	With regard to the "Justice" mission, the draft regulation cancels unconsumed commitment authorisations for more than €81 million on the "Penal Administration" programme, mainly on the "Home and support for persons in the hands of justice", for €40.2 million on the "Judicial Justice" programme and €33 million on the "Driving and piloting of justice policy" programme. For payment appropriations not consumed and not carried over, cancellations amount to EUR 53.6 million. Given the considerable funding and investment needs of this administration – remember that the average occupancy rate of prisons in 2018 was 118 per cent across the entire park, which is frankly not reasonable – we believe that there would be things to do, and these cancellations do not seem satisfactory to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u145	The committee is against the amendment. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u146	I would point out that, since the law on the programming of justice and the first budget that I have presented to you, the Ministry of Justice has seen the biggest increase in the budget ever recorded under the Fifth Republic, i.e. 5% increase in appropriations per year. It is true that justice needs it, both for its staff and for the construction of prison places or to strengthen the resources available to judges. This being the case, the time has come to see the implementation of the appropriations. In order to comply with parliamentary authorisation, we have made the choice to cancel €167.3 million in commitment authorisations, and €53.6 million in payment appropriations not consumed in 2018 and not carried forward. Apart from Title 2, therefore excluding staff costs, EUR 116.8 million are essentially commitment authorisations which have become moot, linked in particular to leases and rents from public-private partnerships which the Minister did not wish to pursue, or to abandoned computer markets. Out of respect for parliamentary authorisation, these appropriations were not carried over to finance operations different from those for which Parliament had voted. I believe that everyone can be satisfied that this parliamentary authorization is not being violated. The balance consists of EUR 50.6 million under Title 2, more than 90 per cent of which is in excess of the contribution to the Pensions Trust Account. It is therefore not staff expenditure within the meaning of salaries, but within the meaning of the CAS which has become moot. For payment appropriations, 90%, or EUR 46.3 million, are Title 2 appropriations which correspond to a surplus contribution to the "pensions" CAS – in parallel with the commitment authorisations which have also become non-applicable. As a result, nothing announced by the Minister, either in title 2 or in non-title 2, has been set aside due to management savings. The cancellations occurred because other expenses would not have corresponded to the authorities of EI and CP voted by parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u147	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u148	You are canceling EUR 72 million of commitment authorisations on the Overseas Mission, while the Court of Auditors, which is more likely to recommend a reduction in expenditure, refers, in its analysis note on the implementation of the Overseas Mission, to an "unprecedented" under-consumption of the appropriations allocated to the Mission. We are therefore surprised to see that the commitment authorisations are cancelled even though the Court of Auditors encourages you to ensure that the appropriations are consumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u149	The committee is unfavorable. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u150	The Court of Auditors and Parliament want good management. You're mainly talking about overseas commitment authorizations taken before 2018. Precisely, it is a matter of "cleaning up" in this matter so as not to hang out indefinitely with EAs that would no longer correspond to reality. The implementation rate for EAs, excluding carry-overs and cancellations from previous years, is 99.86%, but a number of EIs had accumulated, which you can see by consulting Chorus. With regard to payment appropriations, the EUR 177 million not consumed corresponds to aid funds carried over automatically: just over 52 million under programme 123 "Overseas living conditions", of which almost 49 million are from the European Union Solidarity Fund alone; 28 million from the 138 "Overseas Employment" programme, mainly for the benefit of adapted military service, and 19.3 million euros from SIDOM sessions, overseas real estate companies, opened in the year-end amending finance law. These appropriations and an additional 3.5 million were carried over under a general provision provided for by LOLF. The total appropriations carried over to the Overseas Mission amounted to EUR 103.5 million. The actual under-consumption of payment appropriations for the 103 programme therefore amounts to EUR 70.46 million, mainly due to less dynamic housing and land use planning. These appropriations have not been carried forward, subject to the 3% carry-forward ceiling provided for in Article 10 of the 2001 Organic Act. However, these under-consumption did not have any adverse effects on the ultramarine territories. The needs expressed have all been met, as evidenced by the very low level of the liabilities to be paid by this ministry at the end of 2018, that is to say just 21 million euros, which has been declining continuously since 2016. Mrs Rabault, I would remind you that in 2016, these charges were approaching EUR 50 million, so we divided them by more than two. Finally, I can assure you that the implementation of 2019 is the subject of sustained discussions with the Minister of Overseas Affairs to avoid a recurrence of such a scenario. This echoes the budgetary debate which took place in this House last December: at the request of both the opposition and the majority, we voted for appropriations which were not finally consumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u151	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u152	It relates to the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities", dedicated to the investment of the communities. Minister, when I asked you a few weeks ago, you told me that all claims for payments had been honoured. It turns out that I asked for some communes that had filed a file before October 15. One might have thought that the payment was now effective; That's not the case. It's the past. For this year, Minister, are you making a commitment that all applications for DETR – rural land equipment endowment – and DSIL – local investment support endowment – submitted before October 15, to take a reasonable date, will be honoured?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u153	The committee is against the amendment. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u154	If the files are complete, I do not answer you absolutely on the date of October 15, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u155	These are payment records: believe me, they're complete!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u156	Not necessarily, but I would like to intervene jointly by commune, knowing that the DETR and the DSIL do not fall within my ministry, but are "by the hand of the prefects", if I may say, and normally subject to parliamentary control, with the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u157	We're having trouble carrying out these checks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u158	Mrs. Rabault, I'm sure you're being respected by your prefect. I have also given an opinion in favour of an amendment to the effect that parliamentarians, regardless of their political colour, should be associated. I am sure, honourable Member, that you have the personality to impose yourself on the representative of the State. Otherwise, Mr Sébastien Lecornu, Minister responsible for local and regional authorities, will help you to do so. I don't know if we can set a date and choose October 15. We can imagine that at the beginning of October, if the files were filed and they are complete, it will not be a question of money: there will be money. Having said that, I will have to talk very soon with Mr Lecornu about the large number of commitment authorisations: we will have to put payment appropriations in front of us. There will therefore be a budgetary response for the investment allocations, which I would like to remind you are very high since the previous quinquennium, because there were reductions in the overall operating allocation – DGF. We wanted to maintain a very high level of DETR and DSIL when we had no longer lowered the DGF. We even made a slight increase. This proves that we are friends of local communities. I am sure that you prefer this budgetary policy to the previous one. However, payments must be paid when the complete files are filed by the local authorities, especially the smallest of them, with regard to the DETR. We will have the opportunity to discuss, during the review of this year's finance bill, the enhancements by investment endowments of those who have complied with the "Cahors contract." To my knowledge, about 15 out of 322 communities have failed to comply with this contract. For all the others, the question will arise of interest, particularly in investments. We will discuss this issue with the investment endowments in the context of the Finance Bill and in the 2019 Regulatory Bill. I think it'll be even more legible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u159	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u160	For the "Security" mission, you cancel commitment authorisations amounting to €79.6 million, mainly on the "National Gendarmerie" programme, amounting to €61.1 million. Mr Minister, I assume that you intend to explain to me that there is nothing in all this that is likely to cause concern to the national gendarmerie, and that we should not worry about the reasons for these cancellations and the postponements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u161	The committee is against the amendment. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u162	In this case, the situation is evidence of good management by the Ministry of the Interior, which has seen its appropriations increase, in particular for Title 2. There was self-insurance, as we ask the ministry; they cancelled their precaution reserve reduced to 3%. This amount was used, not to finance the general budget and other expenditure, but to cover the excesses of the Ministry of the Interior on other matters. So we have accepted – at least this is what I have been doing since I was Minister of Public Action and Public Accounts – a minimum of personal management of the Minister of the Interior who makes the choice to compensate for an overrun by freezing this. It is now up to him to justify, if he wishes and if you ask him, his budgetary policy in front of you, as it responds to the priorities that have been set. I believe that parliamentary authorisation is respected, especially since this is clearly visible and perfectly critical of the Court of Auditors if it so wishes. In this way, we avoid the decrees in advance that I think are still inappropriate. We prefer self-assurance of the precautionary reserve to a form of irresponsibility that would lead ministers to ask, no matter what, for compensation for overruns of their appropriations. There have therefore not been any particular difficulties for the Ministry of the Interior, except perhaps a slight change in the Minister's policy which has had to lead to overruns in certain areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u163	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u164	This is the largest cancellation of commitment authorisations, i.e. €2.4 billion on the "Work and Employment" mission. I imagine that this cancellation is linked to the decrease in the number of job creations assisted. Maybe there's another reason?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u165	The committee is unfavorable. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u166	Mrs Rabault made the question and the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u167	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u168	As I indicated in defending the motion for referral to committee, this amendment echoes the comments made by Mr François de Rugy, who announced the implementation of the assessment of the impact of the Government's budgetary decisions on a 2°C trajectory for the 2020 finance bill, as well as measures to protect biodiversity. Scientists tell us that there is an urgent need for a public policy to preserve biodiversity, as well as a public policy to combat climate change. Such a public policy must be based on precise information. That is why our group is calling for an additional annex to the finance bill to be devoted to the interdepartmental policy on biodiversity conservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u170	The committee has delivered an opinion against this amendment. Rubin, you are calling for the creation of a cross-cutting policy document – TPD – on the interdepartmental biodiversity conservation policy. In committee, I had indicated in the form of an endad that the only species that is not endangered was precisely TPDs, since there are already twenty-one – and I am not really sure that their reading is as effective as you seem to think. I would also like to point out that there is a programme 113 on biodiversity, the special rapporteur of which is Mr Coquerel here. I would like your amendment to be resubmitted within the framework of the PLF, indicating the information you would miss. As it stands, I do not believe that the publication of an additional document is really necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u172	My opinion is also unfavourable, but not for the same reasons, and I object to contradicting the rapporteur-general. It seems to me that Mrs Peyrol tabled last year an amendment to the Finance Act, which was adopted, creating a new budget document on biodiversity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u173	A TPD?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u174	[[Smile]] ... which we could have printed in green if you wish. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. Maybe Mrs. Peyrol could confirm her creation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u175	Very good suggestion, minister. Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u176	There is, in fact, the amendment that was voted on last year in the Finance Act and which proposes the creation of a yellow budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u177	It's not a TPD!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u178	... to list green spending, including expenditure on ecological transition and hence climate change, but also on biodiversity. And then, in the context of the energy and climate bill, I tabled an amendment, which was adopted in the Committee on Sustainable Development and in the Committee on Economic Affairs. It is a question of having a report that is a kind of green budget by going to the scan of all the state's spending to see their compatibility with the Paris agreement and also with the problems of biodiversity, namely the expenditure favourable to biodiversity and those unfavourable to it. [[Cendra Motin and Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applaud]] In addition, we already have at our disposal a number of documents: yellow on the financing of the energy transition and yellow on the policies financing the climate strategy, which is part of the issues you are raising, Mrs Rubin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u179	[[Smile]] So they'll be yellow, minister, not green.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u180	[[Smile]] Yellow-green!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u181	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u182	Does that mean that this set of documents echo the announcement by Mr de Rugy that I have just recalled?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u184	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u185	In this case, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u186	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u187	This amendment calls for a list of operators which are not considered to be various bodies of central government and a list of operators which are considered to be various bodies of central government. The Finance Committee's reflection on this issue is in line with that of the Government, since a Prime Minister's circular is intended to clarify the issue. Now that we have a yellow budget on state operators, we should distinguish between ODAC operators – Various Central Administration Organisations – and those who are not so in order to have a more complete overview allowing us to achieve a simplification of the system, at least a mutualisation as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u189	I agree in principle with what you are saying, my dear colleague: it would be useful for the yellow budget to specify for each operator whether it has the qualification of ODAC within the meaning of national accounts. But, in my view, this amendment to the schedule can be done on an ongoing basis, so there is no need to amend the legislation. However, in order to be pleasant to you and in view of the interest of the request, I will issue a wisdom notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u190	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2 and 7. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u191	I come back here to the decrees in advance. Article 13 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws provides that "in case of urgency, advance decrees taken on the advice of the Council of State and after the advice of the committees of the National Assembly and Senate responsible for finance may open additional appropriations without affecting the budgetary balance defined by the last Finance Law", the latter having to return theirs within a week so that the Council of State can itself be seized in time. Only then can the Government issue a decree in advance. The opinions of the committees are, of course, communicated to the Council of State, but its opinion remains confidential; Commissions are not aware of this. We had already noted this dissymmetry in the procedure in the Committee on Finance on 6 June. You replied to us, Mr rapporteur-general, that this was normal because of the principle of separation of powers and that, moreover, this issue was a matter for the organic law. You promised a more reasoned answer in the debate on LOLF, but I would prefer you to give it to me right away, hence this amendment. You have understood that it aims to improve the information of national representation by giving it the opportunity to better perform its monitoring function.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u192	Amendment No 7 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u193	This amendment has already been discussed repeatedly and so many times rejected. As you know, the opinions of the Council of State are intended for the Government and it alone can decide to make them public. I understand that in January 2015, the President of the Republic announced the publication of the opinions of the Council of State, with the exception of financial texts and texts authorizing the ratification or approval of international treaties. However, in the name of the principle of separation of powers, the legislator cannot impose in law the transmission to Parliament of certain opinions of the Council of State. In addition, I confirm that such a provision would seem to me to fall within the scope of the organic law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u194	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u195	This amendment concerns public-private partnerships, which must be made more visible and readable so that they can be assessed. Public-private partnerships are often public investment and benefits to the private sector. The Court of Auditors, for example, noted for the prison area alone: "Over the next twenty-nine years, the State will therefore contribute EUR 5.605 billion in investment, of which EUR 2.595 billion is the share of financial costs, and EUR 10.902 billion in operating costs, for a total of EUR 16.507 billion", for real estate arising from public-private partnerships. It is, therefore, often a budgetary gabegy for the State which, in addition, guarantees this type of partnership in this way. Our group therefore asks, in view of the various reports which have pointed out the shortcomings and the fact that this is a bad affair for the State, that Parliament has the documents which enable it to have greater visibility and readability in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u197	My opinion is as unfavourable as it is in committee and for the same reasons. First, your amendment seems to me to be partially satisfied because public-private partnership debts are included in the general accounts of the State – on page 52 of the presentation report is a table summarizing the updated minimum future payments under the main real estate contracts under the partnership. Secondly, your amendment would rather fall within the scope of an organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u198	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u199	Now that my previous amendment has been adopted, we can go a little further. In order to better inform Parliament and thereby strengthen control over public bodies, this amendment tends to create a yellow budget on the various non-state central government bodies, along the same lines as the yellow budget for State operators. We will have, like that, a complete panorama.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u201	I'm afraid I have to express a less wise opinion than a few minutes ago. I really believe that the enrichment of the Annex on state operators is a better solution than the creation of an Annex on ODAC. In passing, I would point out that this concept of ODAC is a matter for national accounts, whereas that of operators is a matter for LOLF. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u203	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u204	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u205	If I have heard correctly, the yellow on state operators would be supplemented by a "non-operator" part. If that is the case, I shall withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u206	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u207	After article 7, it is proposed to insert the following article: "The Government shall submit to Parliament, within three months of the enactment of this Act, a report on the state's financial compensation for transfers of powers to local and regional authorities, including an assessment of whether such financial compensation has been made for sufficient financial amounts and the impact of such compensation on public finances. » Article 72 (2) of the Constitution states that "any transfer of powers between the State and the territorial authorities shall be accompanied by the allocation of resources equivalent to those devoted to their exercise". The reform of the housing tax as well as the law on the professional future and the digital planning of the territory, known as the ELAN law, undermine the resources of municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation. This encourages us to seek clarification on the actual numbers and the impact of these transfers on the finances of communities. In committee, you replied, Mr rapporteur-general, that the general code of local and regional authorities already met this request, but it only partially did so, because we are also asking for an assessment of the impact of these measures, for example that of the housing tax. That is why we tabled this amendment again at the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u209	This amendment had already been tabled last year and I still have the same opinion. In addition to the argument relating to the general code of local authorities, I would point out that, within the Committee on Local Finance, an advisory committee on the assessment of charges is drawing up for Parliament, on the occasion of the draft finance law, a review of the evolution of the charges transferred. A budget yellow is also devoted to financial transfers from the state to the communities, which distinguishes between transfers of powers and compensations linked to local tax reforms. The amendment therefore seems to me to be perfectly satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u211	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u212	Are you perfectly satisfied, Mr Castellani, or are we going to vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u213	I stand by the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u214	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u215	We are often told of a deficit, of public expenditure to be reduced, but we leave aside the expenditure that continues to increase year after year, those tax niches that are all of the revenue that the state lacks. The special feature of tax niches is to explode the ceiling each year. For example, between 2017 and 2018, they increased by 6.7 billion euros, which means that now we are all over 100 billion euros. In total, between 2013 and 2018, the cost of tax niches increased by 39%. I am still inclined to quote the Court of Auditors, which explains that they are "not driven or evaluated", noting that "their assessment is also very weak, although they often have a distended connection with missions and their objectives". There are 200 tax niches for which we don't even know the number of beneficiaries! The Court of Auditors therefore recommends, and we have, for several years now, carried out a comprehensive calculation of the number of beneficiaries and the cost of each of the tax expenditure, and to supplement the budget documents by specifying the objectives to which the expenditure linked to each programme contributes, together with, for the most significant of them, performance indicators. We therefore recommend, through this amendment, that we follow the conclusions of the Court of Auditors and allow us to actually have a comprehensive calculation of the number of beneficiaries and the cost of each of these tax expenditure, to say the least.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u216	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u217	What you are proposing to create is exactly Volume II, "Evaluation of Ways and Means", which exists within the framework of the Finance Bill, and which would be transposed into the Regulation Act. Very honestly, I don't think that's the right method. The problem is quite frankly not the legislative vehicle, but the accessibility of information that we do not have in Volume II, including when we are considering the finance bill. Creating a new annex that would have the same flaws as already existing under the FLP would not necessarily be very effective. First, let's improve Volume II "Evaluation of Ways and Means" before we begin to ask ourselves questions about the settlement law. Even if I share with you, in substance, the desire to have accessible information, because that is the subject, I therefore ask for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable, In the next tax enforcement report, I will provide a detailed study of the tax expenditures that must be assessed as a matter of priority, so that we can have a means of exerting pressure to obtain this information. What has been voted for in the risk prevention plans – PPR – following the certificates of plant protection products savings – CEPP – is also part of this logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u218	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u219	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u220	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u221	I maintain the amendment and take note of what you are telling us, Mr General. So we'll put pressure together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u222	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u223	On the whole of the bill to regulate the 2018 budget and approve the accounts for 2018, I am seized by the La République group on the move of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u224	It also relates to tax niches. It would be a way to make sure that we will put pressure together rather than commit to it. The aim is to ensure that the Government submits to Parliament "within three months... a document setting out a methodology and timetable for the implementation of a programme to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the most significant tax expenditures [...]. » Since we are committed to doing so, we can already plan a schedule, a program, a method. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u226	Dear colleague, this amendment corresponds to the wish I had expressed during the examination of the previous Finance Act that such an evaluation work be carried out. The amendment I had tabled to that effect was adopted, and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Action and Public Accounts have therefore given the Inspectorate-General of Finance a task of evaluating niches. A report on the state of play of the assessment and control of tax expenditure should be submitted these days, since it was planned for the end of May or the beginning of June. We also met with the IGF services in charge of this case. The aim is to identify priorities in the context of a multi-annual work and to have a scoreboard that summarises, in particular, expenditure, assessment, possible developments and any other useful elements. I believe that today your amendment, like the previous one, supports the request which I have made and which is currently being satisfied. I will also address this issue, and for the same reasons, in the report on the application of the tax law. I therefore very honestly believe that requesting a supplementary report would only delay the publication of the IGF report a little more. It would be better if we worked together to analyse the same report. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u228	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u229	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u230	Frankly, I would like more details on these stories of tax niches, about which my colleague Eric Coquerel recalled the figures. In response to a previous amendment, you indicated that it was impossible to obtain the figures in question and that reference should be made to Volume II, "Assessment of Ways and Means", in which the elements are not found.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u231	Yeah, that's what he said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u232	Now you're telling me that a report on tax niches is being finalized. The figures in question exist and do not exist; You have had an amendment voted on: when will we be able to obtain information on these forms? I would like clarification, because this debate is becoming very confused at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u233	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u234	Based on the evaluation work carried out by the General Inspectorate of Finance, we will have the schedule for evaluating these niches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u235	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u236	We propose, through the latter, that "The Government should present, as a general annex to the draft regulation of the year, a document presenting the breakdown between spontaneous changes in tax revenues and the impact of measures taken on behaviour. » The example taken in the summary is that of the flat tax, on which we had already exchanged. I had you, Mr. Minister, a little harassed about his valuation, his amount, and the impact it could have on the announced figures, i.e. a cost of EUR 1.5 billion. Now that a year has passed, what has it been? What is the share of a normal, structural and predictable effect of this flat tax and what is the share of a boon effect? We want this decomposition in order to have a better assessment and a better visibility of the measures you are taking against the will of the group La France insoumée. In the end, we really need to be able to have more precise figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u238	Your request is the counterpart of the one you made earlier, which corresponded to Volume II "Assessment of Ways and Means", since it refers this time to Volume I. In fact, you are asking that what we have in the context of the finance bill be also available for this bill. I would point out to you that, in practice, my report on the draft regulation contains an analysis and a summary of all the Court of Auditors' budget implementation notes. This summary contains precisely the data you have just requested. Your amendment is therefore satisfied with my report, the simple reading of which will provide you with the analysis in the law of settlement of the consequences of Volume I "Assessment of Ways and Means". I'm asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u240	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u241	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u242	I therefore conclude that, now, you would be able to explain to me what part of the flat tax is of its intended and foreseeable effect and what part is of the bounty effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u243	I asked the minister the question and he didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u244	Read the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u245	If so, I believe that my amendment deserves to be retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u246	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u247	You will not be able to argue with him the same argument as you used with respect to the precedents. I stuffed it well in Budgetek, and unless a corner or corner of this application got away from me, I couldn't find the cross-cutting policy documents that interest me – we talked about it just now about the creation of one of these TPDs. It turns out that I've been interested lately in financial crime stories. There is a TPD for part of the latter, which is tax evasion. This is the most funny TPD, because it is transversal to a single ministry, that is, it involves only two Bercy directorates – this is for the little story, to make smile those who still want it on this type of subject and at this time. I thought that the settlement law might be the right time to take stock, for the year 2018, of the cross-cutting policy, on a subject that is of interest to many people in the Chamber, at least the members of the groups of the Democratic and Republican Left and of the Unsolicited France. We have indeed been working on this issue in its own right. And now, patatras! I have found nothing, since, as a matter of principle, the budgetary yellows are not followed in the framework of the settlement laws. They are only presented at the time of the review of the original financial laws, with a view to building forecasts. And that is when we can get information on the implementation of the budget for financial year n-1. As a result, TPDs escape the traditional divide between annual performance projects and annual performance reports that we are currently taking as part of our discussions. That is a pity, because there is no enlarged committee dealing with these same TPDs, nor is there any prior discussion in committee, since they are not being examined. All of this has been a personal frustration about tax evasion, but it could concern road safety or city policy, i.e. all the TPDs we know. I think it would be useful if these documents could be respected in both the settlement and the finance legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u249	[[Smile]] Right now, all over the House, we're taking love for TPDs. I don't know what happened about them in spring! Your request is not just about the TPD on tax fraud, but about everyone: you want them to be pre-published at the stage of the settlement bill. Very honestly, I don't think that's the point. What is needed first is to improve the quality of the information provided to us, and not necessarily to increase the quantity – the quantity can damage the quality. I understand that you felt a frustration, because the bill is not based on a logic that favours an evaluation policy – this is the case, in particular, with the CEPP – and that is even more true today. But this is precisely the work of the special rapporteurs, which needs to be highlighted. It seems to me preferable that TPDs be provided at the stage of the finance bill, that is, at the time of the decision. Moreover, it has the advantage of giving the administration more time to draft them and to have consistent information. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u251	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u252	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u253	We must have misunderstood each other, or the amendment is not well drafted enough, which is a possibility – everyone can make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u254	It is, in fact, perhaps rather poorly written.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u255	His mind is as follows: a TPD is quite similar to an annual performance project, except that it compiles data from different PAPs into a single document dealing with a single public policy, which can be carried by several departments. However, year n-1, which is what we see in the review of the Settlement Act, is only available at the time of the review of the Finance Bill, where the following TPD is brought to our attention. What I want is that at the time of the review of the settlement law, one can know the achievement – just what was done, not what will be done the following year, which falls under the Finance Act – of year n-1, which relates to the TPD that was voted in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u256	We got it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u257	In other words, that there is the same parallelism between PAP and RAP on cross-cutting policy documents – it certainly looks like Javanese, but perhaps not for those who follow the budget debates a little bit. There is no information on TPDs in the budget evaluation notes, no special rapporteur for TPDs appointed at the time of the settlement law since, in the spring of the evaluation, it is an equivalence with the special rapporteurs that was established for the settlement law. Maybe I'm too greedy and I'm asking too much information. However, these could be useful for us to have the same follow-up in two steps as we do on other matters that we are following when we look at the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u258	I put to the vote the whole of the bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u259	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 45 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 32 Against 13
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-19-O1282.u260	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill to restore the purchasing power of the French; Discussion of the proposal for a policy and programming law on internal security; Discussion of the proposal for a law on catch-up programming and sustainable development in Mayotte; Discussion of the proposal for a law to develop the family reception of elderly and disabled persons; Discussion of the proposed law on several articles of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Act. The meeting is adjourned.
