ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of the International Convention on Standards for the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Fishing Vessel Personnel (STCW-F) (No. 810, 1365).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u2	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u3	On behalf of the Government, I introduce the bill authorizing the ratification of the International Convention on Standards for the Training of Fishing Vessel Personnel, Certification and Watchkeeping, a convention more commonly referred to as STCW-F for Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Fishing Vessels. Of course, we who are fervent militants of the francophonie can only deplore this use of an Anglo-Saxon denomination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u4	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u5	However, behind this unwarranted acronym, which may seem arid, is an international convention that allows for a certain amount of progress, which leads us to ask you to authorize its ratification. It is not unnecessary to go back to the historical context of the Convention's origins and its adoption. While the commercial shipping sector has an international convention on standards for the training of seafarers, certification and monitoring of the STCW Convention, since 1978 several international institutions have individually made partial provisions for the fisheries sector. I am thinking of the ILO – the International Labour Organisation – the IMO – the International Maritime Organisation – or the FAO – the Food and Agriculture Organisation. These rules should therefore be unified and international standards for the training of seamen should be adopted for the fisheries sector. This was all the more necessary as the sector is highly accident-causing. This brings us to the very impressive figure of 24,000 deaths a year in the world. As far as our country is concerned, among the events reported in 2016 to the Bureau of Inquiry into Sea Events involving French vessels or which took place in the waters under French sovereignty, four deaths were reported. In any event, it was therefore necessary to take action to ensure that professional training was always more effective and complete. A diplomatic conference in London in 1995 resulted in the adoption of the STCW-F Convention and nine annexed resolutions. Today, 26 States are parties to the Convention, including nine Member States of the European Union. This clarification is useful because certain provisions of the Convention fall within the Community's competence. The Decision of the Council of the European Union of 18 May 2015 authorises the Member States of the Union to become party to the Convention. We believe that there are no difficulties with ratification. It is part of France's long-standing policy of preventing accidents and combating social dumping. Indeed, the objective of the Convention is to define minimum standards of training, to lay down strict rules for the grant of patents and to impose principles in the organisation of the bridge watch. This is of triple interest to us. First of all, the Convention makes it possible to improve maritime safety by means of harmonised training rules. As such, it also meets sustainable development objectives as the reduction in the number of accidents will contribute to the prevention of marine pollution. It is then of interest in the fight against unfair competition carried out by less demanding flags in terms of social standards. It thus constitutes a strong signal on the need to establish a minimum base of social rights at the global level in the maritime sector, particularly in the fisheries sector. Finally, it facilitates the emergence of a less compartmentalised maritime labour market by eliminating the distinction between the training required for fishing and those required for trade. Bridges between the two sectors are essential in order to make the labour market for navigants more fluid and wider. The ratification of the Convention by France would be perceived by the international maritime community as a sign of the quality of its flag. It would also provide evidence of the employability of French sailors in the fisheries sector. Finally, they could benefit from the arrangements provided for in the Convention for the recognition of securities at the global level. Within the Union, France wants an ambitious European maritime social agenda. One of its proposals in this context is to ensure that all activities at sea benefit from the achievements of international conventions, which is to act in favour of working, employment and training conditions. [[Pascal Lavergne and Jimmy Pahun applaud]] One question might arise: why did we wait for 2019 when the STCW-F Convention was adopted at the end of the 1995 international conference? In domestic law, France has already adopted a number of rules – I am thinking of the decree of 24 June 2015. The ratification of this Convention will be in line with these decisions, and will be welcomed more than two decades after the London Diplomatic Conference.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u6	Mr Bruno Joncour, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u7	We are considering the bill authorizing the ratification of the International Convention on Standards for the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Fishing Vessel Personnel, known as the STCW-F Convention. This Convention, adopted in London on 7 July 1995, under the auspices of the International Maritime Organization, entered into force on 29 September 2012 for the 26 countries that have ratified it. The Senate approved its ratification on March 22, 2018, and the National Assembly's Foreign Affairs Committee did the same on November 6. The purpose of the Convention is to establish, for the first time, common standards for the training of fishing vessel personnel, as had already been done for commercial and recreational vessels by the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, adopted under the auspices of the International Maritime Organization. In 1995, at the revision conference of the latter Convention, the IMO decided to supplement this arrangement by establishing a similar convention for fishing vessels. This Convention on the fisheries sector has three main objectives. First of all, it aims to improve the level of maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment by increasing the level of qualification of sailors. They work in a dangerous sector where around 24,000 people are killed a year in the world, and accidents are often of human origin. It then aims at opening up the maritime labour market by harmonising training, both between the fisheries sector and those of trade and pleasure, and between the different signatory countries. As was said during the committee's examination of the text, our fishing fleets are now struggling to renew their staff, and it is urgent for our fishing ports to increase the attractiveness of the fishing profession. The creation of bridges between countries and sectors will provide fishermen with better career prospects. She should help with their recruitment. Finally, the Convention aims to reduce competition with less stringent social standards by extending them to as many States as possible. It is true that among the countries that have so far ratified the Convention are neither the United States nor China nor Japan. It is also regrettable that only 26 countries have so far ratified it out of the seventy-four that signed it in 1995. It is therefore all the more important that France ratify this text. It thus demonstrates both coherence, responsibility and exemplaryness. However, this convention is not a symbolic text. It contains real obligations for the ratifying States. It details the minimum requirements for the training, qualifications and certification of master, officer and engineer, and the certificates of radiocommunication operators. These specifications are available in several types of patents, and differ according to the type of ship and the distance from the coast. France has already anticipated the implementation of this Convention with a comprehensive reform of vocational training in the maritime sector, which was carried out by Decree No 2015-723 of 24 June 2015 on the issuance of maritime vocational training certificates and the conditions for the performance of duties on board ships armed to trade, pleasure, fishing and marine cultures. These measures have been mandatory since 1 September 2016. The new regulatory framework also provides for a revalidation of securities every five years and a strengthening of the conditions for granting derogations. Arrangements have been made to transform the old titles into new titles, including the obligation to undergo medical training and training in safety and first aid. However, this decree leaves aside the provisions on the recognition of patents between parties, which fall within the exclusive competence of the European Union. The Commission invited Member States to accede to the Convention, which should in turn encourage the adoption of a specific directive enabling it to be implemented at European level. As part of this reform, France has adopted training rules, the level of which often goes beyond what is provided for in the Convention. However, our country has chosen to progressively implement these new provisions, as existing bodies and institutions are not in a position to immediately absorb the significant training needs they induce. However, this implementation has indeed taken place, and France is now ready to fully implement this text, which will place it in a better position, not only to require its application by the other parties, but also, more generally, to intervene on other fisheries-related issues, such as issues relating to fishing areas or those concerning environmental techniques, such as electric fishing. The Convention concerns all 18340 seamen working in the fisheries sector; Among them, 9920 will only have to request the transformation of their vocational training qualification, while 8117 will have to take training. All the training courses concerned cost €6.19 million, with the expenditure spread until 2020. This development is under way. The entry into force of the Convention will in fact entail few changes because France has already anticipated the application of most of the legal and practical obligations it provides for. Its adoption, in line with commitment No. 44a of the Grenelle de la Mer, will put France in a better position to demand from the other States parties the application of these new standards of training, the usefulness of which is undisputed from the point of view of safety as well as from the social point of view. But beyond the technical aspects which constitute the bulk of the content of this Convention, it should be stressed that its provisions are necessary both socially, humanly and environmentally in an economic sector which is a valuable asset for our country. This text reinforces above all the maritime dimension and vocation of France – of which we are not always sufficiently aware – in terms of international strategic responsibility, resources to be valued and prospects to be drawn. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Much remains to be done to ensure that fishing is considered in its rightful place, in its noble place. And that is why it was necessary for this debate to take place in open session. Those of us who come from the territories where fishing is one of the main economic activities know how much this wealth needs to be protected, organised, better structured, and how much it needs to be made more readable and forward-looking. This is why priority must be given to those who make up the wealth and the human resource, those whose jobs it is. This means that everything that contributes to their training, everything that protects, consolidates, regulates and adapts their profession is useful and fair, including in the context of the necessary harmonization of international standards. This Convention, which is now under your consideration, is a positive contribution to the more elaborate definition of a coherent and dynamic fisheries strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u9	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u10	First of all, let me warmly thank our rapporteur, Bruno Joncour, for explaining very clearly the issues at stake in this Convention. Fishing is for our country – which, I would like to remind you in this forum, has the world's second largest maritime area, more than 11 million square kilometres – a key issue. As Bruno Joncour pointed out, fishing is the main economic activity of a large part of our coastline, and it brings many ports to life. Our Assembly as a whole will have to vigorously defend this activity in the event of an exit without agreement from the United Kingdom of the European Union. As we all know, fishermen have a difficult and trying job: those who fish on the high seas are absent from their homes for several weeks, sometimes several months, often working day and night, without regular hours. Moreover, fishing is an uncertain activity because fishermen work under pressure from the fluctuating price of hydrocarbons. Another constraint is the need for the management of natural resources, which is essential for the preservation of biodiversity. Finally, and this is the object of this Convention, fishing is an international and competitive activity; However, the situation of French fishermen is too often threatened by competition from countries which practice low levelling in terms of safety, working conditions and compliance with environmental rules. To date, there have been no international standards in this area. The purpose of this convention is to create one. It was urgent to do so. The ratification by our country, the European Union's third largest producer of fisheries and aquaculture, is therefore an important signal. The European Union, the world's largest and fourth largest market in the sector, has embarked on a common policy aimed at securing fishermen's sources of income while at the same time putting an end to overexploitation and depletion of stocks. But so far there have been no standards for the training of sailors. Finally, by establishing strict training standards, the Convention aims first of all at protecting sailors, reducing the risk of accidents at sea and thus saving lives. It will also contribute to the preservation of the environment by reducing the risk of devastating accidents and shipwrecks for the marine ecosystem – as has been seen in recent days. It will better protect fishermen against the hazards of globalization by fighting unfair competition and social dumping, as well as by promoting their careers with a system of recognition of qualifications that will enable them to work in another region or country, and in some cases even to move from the fishing sector to the commercial or recreational sector. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] About 20 countries have already ratified the Convention since 2012, when it entered into force. The more many will do so, the better the situation will be for people working in the fisheries sector. France has already anticipated the implementation of this Convention through a major reform of maritime vocational training adopted in 2015, which concerns not only our 18,000 fishermen, but also the commercial and recreational marines. It is now urgent, ladies and gentlemen, that things change at international level, and that is why this Convention must be ratified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u11	Mr Pascal Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u12	There were no international standards for the training of sailors in the fisheries sector until the adoption of the 1995 International Convention on Standards for the Training of Personnel of Fishing Vessels, Certification and Watchkeeping, known as the "STCW-F Convention". Yet this profession deplores around the world 24,000 deaths a year. This convention, which the Government is proposing to ratify today, fills a clear gap. Entered into force on 29 September 2012, it has so far been ratified by 26 States but not yet by France. The issues are important in terms of improving maritime safety and preventing pollution of the marine environment, reducing competition by imposing a minimum social standard and making the maritime labour market more fluid between trade and fisheries. Economic, social and environmental issues are, as often, very related. The establishment of minimum standards of training at the international level is welcome. In addition to professionalizing trades to develop their interest and facilitate their exercise, they will limit sea fortunes and their consequences for the environment. Furthermore, raising awareness of the protection of the marine environment must empower stakeholders in the management of this common resource. Finally, a minimum set of skills attested by the relevant nations, such as the existence of strict rules for the awarding of diplomas, must ultimately reduce unfair competition from nations without a minimum social requirement. What will be the impact of the ratification of this Convention on our domestic law? I recall that France has already anticipated the reform by finalising, in September 2016, a more universal degree course on the conditions for the performance of duties on board armed vessels for trade, pleasure, fishing and marine culture. The pre-ratification work has therefore been done with concern not to reduce our requirements in this area. Indeed, the STCW-F Convention defines minimum levels that are for some below our maritime training standards and that is why, for example, in accordance with the profession, the certificate of fishing master, absent from the said Convention, has been maintained. It is estimated that some 9,900 French sailors will have to train – or make compatible their qualifications – out of the 18300 in the sector. The graduation of French sailors, which serves as a basis for social security contributions, also had to evolve with the inclusion of an additional criterion. Finally, the aim has been to harmonise the curricula: a common core of training has been defined between trade, pleasure and fishing in order to promote a better employability of the sailors in the face of the risks and economic hazards by allowing bridges between the bridge and the machine, as well as between the sectors. Of course, a comprehensive reform of maritime vocational training has had to be carried out in order to meet the new requirements of the STCW-F Convention: the use of derogations will be more limited, but it is the principle of revalidation every five years of the visas or certificates obtained that will be the main requirement. The profession has already become aware of the new arrangements and sailors will have until 1 September 2020 to revalidate their titles by providing proof of a significant marine service or by taking revalidation or knowledge tests. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as a farmer in a territory called the "Entre-deux-Mers", I can only stand in solidarity with those who are called "farmers of the sea". While the provisions of this Convention are technical and regulatory, they concern, first and foremost, men and women who work in difficult occupations and who continue to pay a heavy price for their vocation: fishing. We can only agree with everything that contributes to enabling them to exercise their profession in safety, to bring them knowledge of the fragile resource our oceans are, to offer them sufficient tools and training to respond to vocations, to help them cope with economic storms as well. France, with some 18,000 kilometres of coastline, must exemplify its responsibilities, particularly with regard to international rights and standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u13	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u14	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u15	I never thought of going up to this gallery to tell the beginning of my professional life – I opened up a little clumsyly to the President of the Republic a few weeks ago at the opening of the Agriculture Fair. I actually started my career as a fisherman because I wasn't working well in school...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u16	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u17	... and that traditionally, in our Breton countries, we became then peasant or fisherman – or worker, but the factory, in our home, was mainly the fields and the sea. So for three years I had a life as a sailor-fisherman, which made me leave the port of Lorient, depending on the weather, on Monday at six o'clock in the morning, to come back on Saturday and sell the product of the fishery on Monday, or on Tuesday to come back on Sunday, and so on. I worked with fantastic crews, with sailors who liked their work. The boss, who was called Leon Lucas, had practiced all the fishing trades, only to show his colleagues that he was the best – the sailors-fishers were like hunters. I really have a deep respect for all these people. Today we are going to ratify the STCW-F Convention, i.e. the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel person l(Sourrieres) – which is therefore an important text for seafarers, which is both a joint project and an opportunity to bring some simplifications to the fishing trade. It's a hard job you do when you're young. Indeed, it makes a good living – it is not Mrs Tanguy present here, whose constituency includes the Guilvinec, who will say the opposite – and therefore to settle quickly, to get married, to have a house built. But beyond forty, forty-five years, it is more difficult to go to sea leaving his wife and children behind. For this reason, career developments must be foreseen. Perhaps the STCW-F will allow such developments, but also simplify things. You know that sailors-fishers are obliged, in order to leave, to wear bras that weigh two kilos.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u18	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u19	The tragedy is that under these conditions, they don't go there anymore! So the little loggers in our house are fighting so they can keep the small, light vest that they started wearing and that has already saved several lives – you recalled, Secretary of State, that it was a trade at risk. I met a boy who wanted to be a fisherman the other day... let's enjoy it! But he did not know how to pull the nets – what, in time, one learned to do directly on the boats. So I am very pleased to see that in Étel, in my riding, we have just opened a multi-purpose second class for fishing trades. I repeat, fishing is a difficult job. It is also a profession that requires taking care of the resource, which is paramount. Thanks to our fighting at European level, and in particular to the implementation of the maximum sustainable yield, we manage the resource fairly well. However, the significant grounding of porpoises that we currently know is a problem. We are all the less able to understand the causes of this because fishermen are careful to board observers and fingerers who should allow porpoises and dolphins not to be caught in trawls. These cetaceans are also victims of dormant nets. Europe is very important in the conservation of maritime species, because everything is decided. I would like measures to be taken at this level to control the fishery for bass similar to those which are taking place in France. Since the bar has only one spawning period, perhaps fishermen should be encouraged not to go to sea during this period, putting forward that they will be able to sell their fish more expensive afterwards. Pleasure craft is the second important sector covered by this Convention. One of my friends, who has participated three times in the Vendée Globe and who was a student at the École des hautes études commerciales and in a veterinary school, is obliged to pass the examinations allowing to bring customers at sea! It seems to me that he could benefit from validations of the experience. Another friend, who has won the Route du Rhum, will also have to return to school for two years. This convention may also make their conversion simpler. As you know, people who are required to have the certificate of Captain 200 or Captain 500 prefer to pass in England the Yachtmaster, much easier to obtain. [[Vif applause on all benches]] I didn't think I'd ever have the honour of speaking in this rostrum to talk to you about what my youth was. I say this to the young people present in the stands: there are magnificent trades, and the profession of fisherman is one of them. It's a hard job, but one that makes a good living. If it attracts you, do not hesitate to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u20	He heated the room!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u21	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u22	[[Smile]] It's hard to get past Jimmy Pahun! It is also an honour, however, because not only is it inhabited by passion, but it also speaks without paper, which is rare in this House. To avoid reading a text that has not necessarily been prepared for oneself and thus to improvise with vehementness, is an honour for Parliament! I've been trying to speak paperless for twelve years, but the result is not always brilliant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u23	You're doing great!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u24	I'm afraid I'm not capable of the same passion, but I think Mr. Pahun's. Bravo! There are countries that have a navy, and there are marines that have a country. I paraphrase here Voltaire, who spoke for his part of the Prussian army. The Government has had the intelligence, in making its decree, to extend to a large part of the French navy, if not to its whole, the provisions which are the subject of this Convention. I don't know if many countries have done the same, but that is essential, and that is why I have offered you this paraphrase of Voltaire. We all know the phenomenon of flags of complacency and we also know what happens when a ship is too old – the news still illustrates it – or when a commander is incompetent – we also knew examples a few years ago. I therefore note with sadness that only 26 countries have ratified this Convention, and among them only eight European countries. This is very boring, and our future European elected representatives will have to strive to ensure that all the countries of the European Union sign it. I would like once again to congratulate the Government on its intelligence. As the President is well aware, it happens from time to time that we see in Parliament the conventions that are submitted to it very late – like this one, which dates back to 1995. This legislature has the merit of making up for such delays by valuing conventions that have been dragging on for a long time. That we are discussing it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, although we can only propose amendments, is also essential. Parliament must progressively ratify all the conventions with which France fully agrees. The Government has clearly identified the risk our navy faces. If our vessels docked in some ports without their sailors having the required certificates, they could be immobilized, which would be catastrophic for the French fishery. The question, however – to which you will not fail to have the courtesy to reply, Secretary of State – is that of reciprocity. It would be unfortunate if ships could not unload their cargo in Le Havre, Marseille or Dunkirk because they did not have the required skills. A balance must therefore be struck so that we do not reduce our traffic opportunities, which would be a problem. We need to be careful that ships that do not fully comply with these standards can nevertheless access our ports. They are all the more concerned that, as I said, only 26 countries, including eight European countries, have ratified the Convention. Our group will vote for this text, which is likely to greatly improve maritime safety – a key issue, as recent events have proven. We also welcome the fact that it reduces the form of competition in less demanding flags than ours. Perhaps we could also consider relying on certain international forums to go much further and force countries to sign this convention. Of the 18340 French sailors, 8617 are to be trained. Who will pay for training which, according to the report, will cost €6.2 million? Seamen's wages are not huge. We can assume that the regions will get involved, but in what way? Will these sailors benefit from individual assistance? Will this training cost them money? Mr Secretary of State, you will certainly answer all these questions. The Government has also had the intelligence to anticipate the gradual implementation, until 2020, of these new training requirements. As training centres are not numerous, such a delay does not seem excessive. On the other hand, I am still concerned when I hear of the labour market being opened up, as mentioned in the rapporteur's speech. The Polish plumber must not become the Sri Lankan sailor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u25	I refer you to Mr. Pahun's comments on the winner of the Route du Rhum!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u26	Our sailors must continue to work under our flag, and it is essential to protect them. I imagine, Secretary of State, that you will reassure me on this point. I will end by evoking Dunkirk, because it was in Dunkirk that Jimmy won the Tour de France by sailing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u27	By Dieppe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u28	But Dunkirk has the record number of victories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u30	[[Mr Bruno Joncouret Mrs Marielle de Sarnez applaud]] At the time of Louis XIV and Jean Bart, when the French navy was at the level of the British navy, the king had installed on the Grand Canal of the Palace of Versailles a fleet consisting of a liner ship, a galley, yoles and Venetian ships. Well, the quality of the Dunkerquois sailors was such that the 240 sailors recruited by Louis XIV were all from this city!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u31	Excellent improvisation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u32	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u33	The convention we are looking at today deals with standards for training fishing vessel personnel, certification and monitoring. This certification is particularly important for France, which has the world's second largest maritime domain. As the chairman of the committee pointed out, 97% of this maritime area is located overseas, where it is an issue for our territories. The training of sailors and the development of the fishing sector in these territories can be at the heart of their development policies. Two thirds of this maritime area lies in the Pacific Ocean, where there are three autonomous territories: New Caledonia, Wallis-et-Futuna and French Polynesia, which alone accounts for 87% of France's exclusive economic zone – ZEE. I would like to pay tribute to all those who have protected these spaces and are using them sustainably. Although these territories are autonomous, national and European policies have implications for their development, with almost 3 million tonnes of fish caught in the Pacific Ocean, which is the world's largest fishing reserve. For example, 50% of the tuna caught by Europeans comes from the Pacific Ocean. Our actions at national and European level therefore affect the quality of the resource in our territories, but also the quality of life of our fellow citizens, who are 20,000 kilometres from here, on the other side of the planet. The questions of training concern to the utmost all those who live in these activities in our country, in Polynesia as in the West Indies, in the Indian Ocean as on the coasts of the metropolis. On this subject, I must say my esteem for the work of Jimmy Pahun, who constantly, and not only in his speech today, shares his passion with all his colleagues. I would add that France benefits from a maritime fleet and from exceptional maritime actors who are at the forefront. I therefore associate myself with the comments made by previous speakers. The IUD Group, Action and Independents will vote for this draft convention, which increases the requirements in terms of safety and health at work in this extremely accident-prone sector, with 24,000 deaths to be deplored every year worldwide. It is essential that our French fishermen are well trained and, in the exercise of their profession, well protected. As we have been quite a pioneer in this area, the passage of this bill will not put channels in jeopardy. I would remind you that it concerns about 18,000 seamen working in the fisheries sector. Of these, 9,000, which is not nothing, will have to transform their vocational training title. We have noted that substantial appropriations of more than €6 million – which will be paid up to 2020 – will be devoted to the provision of these trainings. On the whole, therefore, this reform seems to us to be very positive. It was therefore essential to ratify the Convention, hoping that global momentum would emerge so that it would have its full effect. However, we are still far from it. As far as the content of training is concerned, we have already mentioned safety and social aspects. But for our fishing practice to be truly at the forefront, I must insist on the environmental aspect. Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, electrical fishing is still practised in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u34	Yes, it's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u35	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u36	And even though the European Parliament has taken a stand against this technique, we know that more than 200 Members of the European Parliament have been able to vote in favour of it. This is a fundamental subject, and I will therefore support the initiative of my colleague Erwan Balanant, who has tabled a bill for an effective ban on electric fishing: we must all be united in the face of this practice. Imagine that we can, by means of an electric discharge, kill all the living beings in a forest in order to collect what is right for us. This is the effect of electric fishing on the ecosystem: it destroys everything on its way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u37	It's revolting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u38	The subject is all the more important to me because I came from a land made of 99% water. As one oceanian academic, professor emeritus, said: in the Pacific, the ocean is in us: somewhere, it flows in our veins. It is urgent to re-approve this truth, in reality of universal scope: the ocean, in fact, is in us, even outside the Pacific. If we refer to the theory of evolution, we all come from this source. In addition, it covers 70% of the Earth's surface. Yet we do anything about it. Our responsibility is in the collective field: this does not concern fishermen in particular, it concerns us all as consumers. In fact, like hunters, fishermen can be a precursor to these issues: they have a greater interest in preserving the environment because it is their livelihood. For our part, in the exclusive economic zone of French Polynesia – which accounts for half of our country's total EEZ – we have opted since 1996 for sustainable fishing. In particular, seine fishing is prohibited, as is foreign fishing and fish-concentration devices – DCP – derived from the fishery. While the quotas granted to us are around 14000 tonnes per year, we are fishing only 6000 tonnes. The same consideration must be given at the national level. France is not limited to Hexagon, however beautiful it may be; It is not only continental: it is global and especially maritime.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u39	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u40	This gives him a special responsibility. Having the second maritime domain in the world is certainly an honour, but it is first and foremost a responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u41	Of course: France is also an oceanic country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u42	Indeed, the ocean represents a value for the whole world. It's our second lung. We talk a lot about forests, but know that the oceans capture 90% of the pollution generated and produce 50% of the oxygen globally. So we owe them an inspiration out of two! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, SOC and GDR groups]] However, fishermen are excellent advocates of these maritime areas. In addition to safety and career issues, it seems to me that we need to give more emphasis in these training programmes to the concept of sustainable fishing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u43	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u44	[[Smile]] My son Joseph wants to become a fisherman, or archaeologist, or a prank and catch salesman, or three at a time – but good, though rather fisherman. He is obsessed with fish. The virus took it during the holiday in Ardèche, and we have since been forced to go back there so that, from dawn, we can go to the riverside, watch the fish that we will then catch and cook in frying – which spreads a smell of graffiti throughout the house. This continued in St. Peter's Park, opposite my home, in Amiens, with frog fishing, by hand or by exhaust. Then came the fish fishery, marked by the miraculous exit of a pike so large that it did not hold in the bucket. This continues with episodic walks at sea during which the reel rod is rigorous, then, in the evening, by the obligatory reading of a page of L'encyclopédie Larousse des poissons d'eau de mer. So, fisherman, why not, if that's his passion? So I was very interested, with this bill, in its future formation. But – forgive me for this evidence – to fish, you need fish, you need living, you need an environment. However, as often – as always in fact – the planet is the great forgotten of this text. In the twenty-eight pages of this convention, I multiplied the "Control F". The result of this research? Zero times the word "coral", zero times the word "flora", zero times the word "wildlife", zero times the words "protected species", zero times the word "preservation", and, above all, zero times the word "overfishing". Yet the seas, the oceans empty themselves of their fish. Will the future fishermen not know? Will they not be taught how to avoid this tragedy, how to preserve resources, and how to renew stocks? For it is indeed a tragedy that unfolds quietly in the open sea, under the foam. It has a name: overfishing. It's mathematical: over the past 40 years, fish stocks have declined by about 40% due to overfishing. Bluefin tuna, blue whale, beluga, Irrawady dolphin, black grouper, large shark, napoleon: all these species are extinct due to overfishing. As for cod, soles, bars aligned with our stalls, like 70% of the species sold in supermarkets, stocks are decreasing for the same reason. But if the seas and oceans empty themselves of fish, they fill themselves, as you know, with plastic: every second, 412 kilos of plastic are spilled there and it is estimated that by 2050 there should be more plastic than fish. Overfishing is therefore an environmental tragedy. But it's also a social tragedy. I met in Calais the owner of a boat, Benoît, who gave me the following testimony: "Three years ago, things began to spoil themselves. It was the desert at sea: with the colleagues, the family, all we were talking about was this. With what we were going up, we couldn't make it. As a result, he sold his boat and abandoned the trade. It's because at sea there's a class war going on. A big-ass war against the little ones. A war of the industrialists against the artisans. Johnny told me, "We're boats, they're weapons. It's so powerful. They're increasing their numbers, their fleet, and we're diving." In this context, what is the role of policy or public authorities? We should serve as a shield for the little ones and as protection for the weak. On the contrary, the European Union – in particular – supports the big ones and reinforces the powerful. The European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries allocates subsidies to mega-industry: €6 billion! Six billion to take more, more and more, with immense, ever more important weapons! Even electric fishing, which has been banned in theory since 1998, is subsidized: €20 million is allocated to the Netherlands, the fishing anchors. So it's an environmental tragedy. It's a social tragedy. But it is also and above all a tragedy for the countries of the South – because we fish in the South what we eat in the North. Major Chinese, European and American capital chartered giga-vessels to overexploit the southern seas and to capture anchovies, sardines and mackerel. What are these anchovies, sardines and mackerels for? Stand tight! to produce flour that will be used to feed fish from northern fish farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u45	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u46	The trout from our home, the so-called Norwegian salmon are fed with the southern fish. The activity of the southern fishermen, who sail by canoe, is destroyed by these mastodons, which are factory boats. The inhabitants of the coast, in Africa and Asia, no longer live from the sea: they no longer feed on it, or less. Industrial overfishing kills them today, just as the northern agro-industry killed small farmers in the south. And we come to complain about migration! We therefore need to regulate, regulate and establish quotas. To save the beluga, the dolphin of Irrawady, the black grouper, the great shark and the napoleon, we need to get the fishery out of globalization, save it from free trade and the laws of the market. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and LT benches]] It is a necessity, for reserves to be renewed, for the word "fisherman" not to be used only in the past, such as "smith" or "charron", so that the documentaries of Commander Cousteau do not bear witness to a disappeared world, so that all the fistons and girls of the Earth can still watch a shadow in the rivers and in the seas and marvel at it – so that they can still, like the children in Amos Oz's novel, see "a fulgurging flash between vegetation and rocky walls. It looked like the reflection of a knife sinking into the water, a fret of scales like live money, a fish. "
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u47	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u48	The international convention submitted today to the ratification of our Assembly is a vector of progress for a profession which, with 24,000 deaths a year, is one of the most dangerous. There is a consensus on this. This text sets out the necessary conditions for an increase in the level of safety in the fisheries sector. By encouraging the training of seafarers, it sets social standards whose low-demand pavilions have the unfortunate habit of freeing themselves. It is thus likely to reduce the level of unfair competition by States with different environmental and social standards. Ladies and gentlemen, it is rare in this Chamber to discuss in a concrete and detailed way the daily reality of a profession, the risks to which those who exercise it are exposed and the resulting consequences for their condition. This text gives us an opportunity to do so. And that's the look closest to the bridge and wharf I want to share with you. I owe it to the exchanges I had with a former fisherman's boss from Dieppe, who also trained young sailors and who had to personally know of a serious sea event whose following picture will give an idea. When we talk about safety on board ships, the risk that comes to mind immediately is that of a sea accident. In many cases, fishing vessels, especially small vessels, sink as a result of a collision with a fishing gear, at the time of the latter's rise, or in bad weather. The water goes in this case very quickly, and the evacuation must be done quickly. However, few small-scale fishing vessels are equipped with survival combinations: the obligation for such vessels depends, for reasons of cost and place on board, on the category of navigation. In addition, fishermen are not sufficiently trained in rapid evacuations and this still causes too many injuries and deaths. The risk of sinking by capsizing affects both small and large vessels. Invasion of water on deck, loss of stability, cracking of the fishing gear at the bottom of the sea, rupture of a steel cable connecting the fishing gear that makes the vessel lie down: the causes of the capsizing may be multiple. Its human consequences, which I had to live as mayor of Dieppe, are often serious, due in particular to the speed of the event. When a ship capsizes, the surprise effect, for the crew, is in fact total, especially for those who, not being watchful, are lying in the crew station. Evacuation management is often difficult, as each sailor must then equip himself with his built-in flotation garment – his IFD – or his brewer, and board the life rafts. This kind of shipwreck sometimes results in the death of sailors who remain trapped in the ship. In many cases – I have been able to measure it personally – survivors have post-traumatic effects that lead them to place their bags on the ground. The reality is that few fishermen are followed after their shipwreck by a psychological cell. Fire on board is another cause of accident. Fire, most often electrical in origin, but sometimes also resulting from fuel leakage – which spreads over flammable materials – causes sailors to mobilise regulatory means that are mandatory on board, such as fire extinguishers or inert gas systems for machines. When these means of fighting are exhausted, and the fire could not be controlled, the crew resorts to the good old water handle, which frequently results in the shipwreck. If they remain on board, sailors facing fire are exposed to great risks. We can certainly understand – this is part of their culture – that they often seek to save their work tool, and hence their means of subsistence. But when a ship is on fire, the combustion emits toxic gases, which often leave indelible traces on the health of those concerned. There may be irreversible intoxication among sailors. Progress is therefore desirable in this area as well. The accident may be caused by a collision or a failure caused by a natural factor, such as fog or snow. But, most often, it is the human factor that is involved: lack of watch, relaxation of the sailor during the watchkeeping, lack of control of the radar, the grip of alcohol – as I said to François Ruffin a few moments ago – or, today, of narcotic products, or even reduced crew strength. Sometimes an additional sailor on board would be a solution, but the economic model of our fishing does not offer this luxury, especially for small vessels. About the day before, which was crucial to the safety of the vessel and the crew, the profession asked that sailors take medical examinations to assess their navigation skills. For the time being, this request has remained a dead letter. Safety also questions the role of the bosses on board and their ability to be trainers, a skill that is somewhat lost. The ability to assess a sailor's ability to perform certain duties on board is critical. The fact that young people have taken a high-level initial training course does not make them, on board, sailors capable of reacting to certain situations. The profession, Mr. Secretary of State, calls for the training of sailors in line with the reality of the profession. This requires much more on-board internships, which is often denied by the administration. Most sailors who embark have too long time to adapt because they do not know the reality of their working environment. The issue of safety also raises questions about workplace accidents to which our fishermen are exposed. While the handling of fishing gear has improved significantly, the implementation of all maritime safety standards on old vessels is more than problematic; hence the need to renew the fishing fleet, including at European level. One of the safety risk factors, with serious accidents, is the economic conditions of the fishery and the pressure it suffers from as a result of restrictive rules. As a result of this economic pressure, it is also not an environmental issue. Fishing management, which is sometimes too rigid – as evidenced by quotas, which require fishing at all costs in a given time – can lead to far too high a risk-taking. Sometimes, in Dieppe, I see fishermen taking the sea by bad wind, forced to bring back the "white gold", that is, the scallop in our house. As far as PPE is concerned, personal protective equipment – gloves, helmets, reinforced boots or personal flotation clothing – mentalities in small-scale fishing and inshore fishing are difficult to evolve. The refusal of the port of PPE is, however, a ground for dismissal. In reality, this never happens, fortunately, but the safety of the sailors concerned is called into question. The handling of safety and survival equipment requires training. However, the cost of training, although the directive is concerned about it, remains at the expense of the sailors, so that they are fairly spaced over time. There are no rescue exercises on board fishing vessels except for industrial fishing. I remember the sad memory of the Snekkar Arctic: nineteen sailors from the ports of Fécamp and Dieppe killed at sea, who, during the shipwreck, did not know how to put their survival suit. When such a combination is put into practice, it must then be repackaged, which is also a budget. This poses another problem for small-scale fishermen. The city of Dieppe has financially supported the Seareka program, for personal flotation clothing equipped with tracking devices for fallen men. Many ships in the Seine-Maritime have been equipped. If the first maintenance visit was financed by the installer, the following are the responsibility of the shipowners. So they rarely take place. This is regrettable, as falls at sea, which occur in different ways, are the main cause of death. This, Mr Secretary of State, is the long list of what the directive takes into account. In conclusion, it's not all black. Progress is being made in the field of security, as is shown by the ratification of this Convention. There is a need to create a one-stop shop and to clarify the conditions for access to such training. The daily lives of fishermen, the diversity of risks they face at each tide, the multiple causes of these risks show that this ratification will not be enough to remove the insecurities of the trade. Nothing would be worse, once the Convention had been ratified, than to look at the public authorities that were leaving the fishery. Safety questions, as we have seen, the economic conditions of the trade, the political capacity we have to maintain on social standards and standards – which must be the highest possible – and to share them, including within the European Union, the political will to develop access to training as close to the ports, the willingness to put in place a genuine strategy for the renewal of the fleet. On this point, Mr Secretary of State, we will have to blow up the locks in Brussels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u49	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u50	On new boats, safety is obviously much better. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and LT benches]] In order for this convention to be something other than a monument of paper, there is therefore a lack of a genuine political strategy for the sea, which would be embodied in a full-fledged ministry in that country. In any case, this is the idea that we will try to move forward, together with my colleague, Annaig Le Meur, in the fisheries information mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u51	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u52	[[Smile]] I am very happy to have you in front of me, Secretary of State, and – once is not customary! – to talk about something other than school for the French abroad. I would like to pay tribute to Mr. Pahun's speech, which has moved me very much in his personal experience, his life. This, in our Chamber, is rare enough to be stressed. As for you, Mrs. Sage, you "electrocuted" us by raising you against electric fishing. "Man has no port, time has no bank; / It flows, and we pass! Alphonse de Lamartine wrote. Indeed, time has passed since the adoption of the Convention on Standards for the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Fishing Vessel Personnel. Twenty-five years have passed before this text finally comes to the National Assembly. We in the Liberties and Territories Group welcome this because it is important that the fisheries sector has a more protective framework, both human and economic as well as environmental. This Convention will contribute to this. It will be a valuable asset for our country and our fishermen, who love the sea and care about the preservation of its resources. The economic sector of fisheries is a tremendous added value for France. It accounts for 10% of fishing in the European Union, with a value of around €1.7 billion each year. But, beyond its economic value, this sector conveys the identity of our maritime and coastal territories that the Members of my group, particularly those of Brittany, Corsica, Charente-Maritime and Wallis-et-Futuna, but also myself, defend with fervour and conviction in our Assembly. We measure every day how essential it is to support fishing, an international strategic tool, which is therefore essential. France's numerous ultramarine territories provide France with an exclusive economic zone of 11 million square kilometres, making it the world's second-largest maritime power. With this extraordinary economic and natural resource, our country must allow our fishermen to operate safely and in fair competition. That is the whole purpose of this Convention, which our group agrees with the ratification of. The aim is to improve maritime safety and prevent pollution of the marine environment, reduce competition with less demanding flags in terms of social standards and promote the creation of a less partitioned maritime labour market. Maritime safety must be at the heart of our concerns, in an area where around 24,000 people are killed a year in the world. If France is spared, it still deplores several hundred accidents each year. It is therefore important to supervise the training of fishermen. We need to better support this human resource in the context of international law and in the harmonization of standards. This requirement should allow fishermen to better understand everyday situations. Of course, this convention will require just over 8000 sailors to take safety training; But since the costs involved are to be borne by the various funding schemes applicable to training, they will not be borne by our fishermen. We cannot, aware of the risks they face, allow them to sail without giving them the means to ensure their own safety. They are husbands, fathers, brothers or sons expected on earth. They are the living forces of territories that extend beyond the baselines. Ladies and gentlemen, fishing is part of our history, part of our culture. France is a country of sailors; The world is a world of sailors. Fishing has always allowed people to feed themselves and heal themselves. Thus, in my constituency in Senegal, almost 70% of the animal protein consumed is drawn from the sea. But it does not offer an inexhaustible resource. At a time when the seas are emptying themselves of fish, we must therefore reflect on the fishing model we want. For the Libertés et territoires group, this model must be sustainable, respectful of men and the seabed. Each and every one of us has seen these horrific images of polluted beaches, plastic oceans that kill fish, as well as all the richness and biodiversity of our seas. That is why, together with the Members of my group, we are concerned about the actions of the Chinese industrial fleet, which is exhausting the West African seabed. This illegal plundering of African waters by Chinese trawlers destroys everything in its way and threatens the activity of African fishermen. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Green Project Africa and to express my admiration for it: this French association is working tirelessly to clean up Ivorian beaches, in order to allow fishermen on the African coasts to live in dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of this Convention will give France a strong diplomatic and legal weight: our country will be able to seize it to question and incite, through concrete measures, those countries which are not signatories to it. I am thinking in particular of China, but also of Japan, which planned to resume commercial whaling next July. This is a scandal, and we must weigh our diplomatic weight to prevent it. France must also weigh in the context of the conditions for exiting the United Kingdom from the European Union. We cannot abandon our fishermen to a "hard Brexit" that would no longer allow them access to the precious British waters. That would be a disaster for them. Our country must, more than ever, stand by them. Our fishermen work courageously in a difficult environment, and their profession is a priestly one. This is certainly why the renewal of generations in this profession is not easy. But when you are a fisherman, it is not job security or the search for a good salary that guides you, it is the passion and love of the sea, as Mr Pahun explained in this rostrum. Working in this sector of activity that has not been spared by crises is not simple. That is why it is essential to provide training for our fishermen in line with the fluctuations in the labour market. Unfortunately, the training requirements for fisheries and trade are still very distinct, and the possibilities for transition from one sector to another are still too small. However, such gateways are essential to make the labour market for navigants more fluid and wider, thus more responsive in times of growth as well as in times of crisis. Colleagues, the examination of this bill shows us how an increase in the level of knowledge and skills of fishermen will be an asset to this industry. Green growth is often referred to at any point in time. Here I want to stress blue growth: our country is full of assets, resources and opportunities for our young people and their families, but these assets often remain untapped. And when we exploit them, we often do so in a disrespectful way and without regard for our planet. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Secretary of State, I urge you, and through you, the entire executive, to pursue a genuine global policy for the development of blue growth. According to the Libertés et territoires Group, the text we are looking at must be an asset for the sustainable management of marine resources. Jacques Brel sang the marine world in his famous song "Amsterdam"; Let his grandchildren sing "In the port of Le Havre" one day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u53	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u54	[[Smile]] "Mayor", and not "sea" – think I regret it! " [The fisherman] is throwing a fierce battle at random. Rain or muddy, he has to get out, he has to go, Because little children are hungry. He leaves at night, When the deep water rises to the steps of the musoir. He alone governs his boat with four sails. [...] He, alone, beats waves that always reform, He goes into the abyss and goes into the night. Hard work! Everything is black, everything is cold; Nothing shines. » These few verses by Victor Hugo are not only a poetic evocation, but the description of a social reality, the same as that portrayed by other classical writers such as Pierre Loti or Joseph Conrad. However, over time, the hardness and danger inherent in this profession have not changed; We have heard several testimonies today. I invite those who still doubt it to read a contemporary and very powerful book on the subject: The Great Marin, by the writer Catherine Poulain, which describes in an epic and very realistic way the life of the fishermen off the coast of Alaska in the 21st century – a hell. It confirms what we know: that fishing is one of the most demanding and dangerous activities in all sectors. We were able to talk in this gallery about alcohol, drugs, but what about the lack of sleep? However, fishermen spend long hours, often long days, at sea, without sleeping or almost as soon as the fish is present. They do arduous work where they are forced to handle equipment that is sometimes dangerous under often difficult conditions. A week ago, in the Côtes-d'Armor of our dear rapporteur, the prosecution demanded a fine of 5000 euros against a shipowner following the accident of a sailor whose arm had been caught in a winch on a trawler at sea. In particular, the shipowner is prosecuted for failing to provide his teams with appropriate and practical training. This has been said: every year, 24,000 fishermen make their holes in the water. All over the world, fishermen die faster and more often than other workers. In our country alone, 243 accidents were reported in 2016. In view of this, action must be taken to ratify the Convention. France is now the European Union's fourth largest producer of fisheries and aquaculture. However, ratification will not change much with regard to the regulation of the working conditions of French fishermen. As the rapporteur explained, France had indeed anticipated the implementation of the Convention through a comprehensive reform initiated in 2015. But our country goes further: it is one of the few European countries to have ratified, as early as October 2015, the International Labour Organisation Convention No 188 on work in the fisheries sector, which aims to guarantee decent work for people employed in the sector. Perhaps you did not know: France has sponsored and supported from the outset the initiative undertaken in 2001 by the maritime social partners in order to establish a genuine global labour code for seafarers within the framework of the ILO. I must tell you something about this: at the time I was a representative of the French Government on the Board of Directors of the International Labour Office; As such, I had defended the project and financed it, we, the public authorities, particularly in the framework of a negotiating workshop in our beautiful country in Nantes. However, as Mr Jumel has said, regulation is one thing, its application is another. In conclusion, I would like to address one particular point: social dumping. Of course, only 26 countries have ratified the text to date, and one can regret the lack of commitment of the few large countries that are still lagging behind in the process. But, in addition to the States of the European Union, many developing countries have ratified it, including in the vicinity of our overseas territories. I am thinking of Kiribati, Sierra Leone, Palau, Saint Lucia, Namibia and Romania. If these ratifications are important to our fishermen, they offer a means of combating social dumping. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] After the hardening of the posted workers directive in June 2017 and the decision on the framework for international road transport last December, the ratification of this Convention will provide further proof that France is at the forefront of the fight against unfair and least social competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u56	On the single article, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group and by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u57	"Who sees Molène sees his grief, who sees Ouessant sees his blood, who sees Sein sees its end": this Breton proverb illustrates the difficulty and dangerousness of the conditions of navigation in the Iroise Sea. In my Finnish constituency, whether it is in the Bigouden country – which concentrates the large fishing ports of Guilvinec and Penmarc'h, Lesconil or Loctudy – in Douarnenez or in Cape Sizun, each year, the celebration of tribute ceremonies for sailors who have perished at sea bears witness to the harshness and dangerousness of the beautiful fishing trade, so well evoked by Jimmy Pahun. Jacques de Thézac, who lived in Combrit, a commune in my constituency, created the Mariner's Shelter Work to improve their living conditions, education and health in order to provide better protection for sailors. Even today, the accidentology of fishing at sea shows the high number of accidents. Last Thursday, a day of security at sea, aimed at preventing them and creating new trainings, was organised at the port of Douarnenez. Indeed, the increase in global flows and the mobility of seamen from fishing vessels is mechanically accompanied by an increase in the number of accidents, responsible for about 24,000 deaths per year worldwide, according to the International Maritime Organization. In France, the marine occurrences investigation office – BEAmer – recorded 259 fishing-related accidents in 2017, compared to 24 in 2007. The purpose of the bill before us is precisely to promote the safety of people and property at sea by making up for the lack of international standards for the training of sailors. That was said, adopted in 1995 under the auspices of IMO, the Convention, also known as STCW-F, entered into force in 2012. Today, there are only 26 Member States – including no large maritime power – including only nine European Union countries. However, in the face of the latter's inability to become a party to the Convention, the Council of the European Union, in a decision of 2015, had invited Member States to accede to the Convention, preferably before 2017. The purpose of this legal instrument is to define, for the first time, mandatory minimum requirements for the training, qualifications and certification of master, officer, engineer and radiocommunication operator certificates. In addition to the protection of the marine environment, this increase in the level of qualification of fishing vessel personnel should also lead, in the long run, to a gradual alignment and unbundling of maritime labour markets. However, as a Member of Parliament for the Coast and co-chair of the Maritime Economy Study Group, I can only support the objective of making sea trades more attractive. The Senate passed this bill in March 2018 – let me pay tribute here to the work done by the two rapporteurs in each chamber. The entry into force of the Convention will involve little change in the French legal order. A decree of 24 June 2015 anticipates the implementation of international provisions by a comprehensive reform of maritime vocational training, from all sectors. Established in consultation with industry professionals, this regulatory framework, which came into force in 2016, focuses on the issuance of maritime professional training certificates and the conditions for performing duties on board armed vessels for trade, pleasure, fishing and marine culture. In addition to imposing higher levels of training than those provided for in the Convention, the Decree also introduces new requirements in the fisheries sector, including the facilitation of trade between seamen and the administration and the creation of new certificates with a view to the development of trades. The Convention will cover 18340 French seamen working in the fisheries sector. A transitional period is foreseen, by 1 September 2020, for 8117 of them to comply with the security training obligation, while 9920 others will be able to be issued from the outset in accordance with the Convention. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In total, the ratification by France of this Convention is necessary in the context of the development of the mobility of our sailors and in order to be able to deliver them trainings and titles in accordance with international standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u58	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u59	During the general discussion, several very strong interventions were based on the reality experienced by fishermen, which they transcribed with accuracy and warmth. It is true that nine Member States of the European Union have ratified the Convention; They will be ten once France has completed the ratification process. Out of twenty-seven or twenty-eight, this is not satisfactory. You have – we have – been heard on this point since, in a report adopted yesterday, the Commission calls on the Member States to ratify the Convention. It's a signal. As regards the problem of the cost of training, the scheme concerned here is that of vocational training and, within the framework of the competence operator - OPCO - for agriculture, fisheries, the agri-food industry and the territories, the contributions of shipowners will make it possible to cover the costs. Therefore, there will be no cost to the sailors themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u61	With regard to the validation of the experience gained, about which some absurd cases have been mentioned here, we are making progress: the work is being undertaken to make it more systematic. With regard to reciprocity, the Convention provides that the principle of "no more favourable" treatment applies in the exercise of port control by the State. In other words, vessels flying the flag of a non-Contracting Party shall not receive more favourable treatment than vessels flying the flag of a Party. This may seem obvious, but it implies that the former could be subject to a longer inspection than the latter, which seems logical to me and provides an element of answer to the question raised. Beyond the Convention itself, some related issues related to fisheries were raised. With regard to whaling, France is generally concerned about the fate of cetaceans: as you know, we have created sanctuaries to protect marine mammals. On the other hand, we have had the opportunity to say so in debates on motions for resolutions concerning trade policy, and we believe that the resumption of this activity is not a good policy. That is why, in the Councils of Trade Ministers, France is at the forefront of making environmental clauses essential clauses – which implies a number of legal obligations. However, for the time being, we have not yet reached a majority of Member States; Nevertheless, we intend to continue this fight during the European mandate which will begin in a few months' time. As far as electric fishing is concerned, after intense discussions, the decision has finally been taken to put an end to the derogations which the Netherlands are using – from July 2021 – and France, for its part, will prohibit, as soon as the Community regulation is published – we hope this will be the case around the summer – the practice by its vessels of this activity in its waters. This confirms the precautionary approach enshrined in the common fisheries policy. Brexit was also mentioned. We are on 29 March, the date on which it was to be implemented, a process that was postponed to 12 April. We will be at the side of the profession and the ministers concerned have also gone to meet the fishermen. In the event of Brexit without agreement, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund will be immediately requested to alleviate the economic shock pending the definition of our future relations with our British friends – relations that we wish to close. London could also authorise EU vessels to fish in its waters until the end of 2019 in accordance with the quotas decided for 2019 by the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries in December 2018. The European legislative framework has been adjusted this week to apply this temporary authorisation. The decision on this matter therefore belongs to the British, but in administrative terms everything is ready. We'll follow this case day after day. I thank you for the elements that you brought to our knowledge through your interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u62	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u63	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u64	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 25 Number of votes cast 25 Absolute majority 13 For adoption 25 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u66	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u67	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u68	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No. 184 on Safety and Health in Agriculture (No. 900, 1364).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u69	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u70	Agriculture is a sector dear to our hearts, regardless of our election department. Today it is up to us to examine International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention No. 184 on safety and health in agriculture. It is known that, in the world, the exercise of agricultural professions varies at all depending on whether or not agriculture belongs to the informal sector – this is still the case in many places – and according to the techniques employed that range from physical work alone to full mechanization. That explains a very great disparity. The objective of Convention 184 is to encourage the establishment of good practice. Accidents to which farmers are most often victims at work are caused by agricultural machinery or by poisoning, as a result of the use of pesticides or other agrochemical substances. That is why, in 2001, the International Labour Conference, the ILO Parliament, chose to draft the Convention, which sets out the principles of the safety and health of agricultural workers. This approach is intended to be consistent; It is part of the broader framework of the principles enshrined in other ILO instruments applicable to this sector, including the core ILO conventions, all ratified by France. I am thinking in particular of Recommendation 192 on safety and health in agriculture, which proposes measures to monitor health and safety at work and preventive measures for agricultural workers, as well as measures that could be extended to self-employed farmers. To date, Convention No. 184 has been ratified by 16 States. In France, legislation on the safety and health of workers is not specific to a given sector; It covers all sectors, the private sector as well as the public, and all categories of workers, even if there is an adaptation of these rules to production processes, particularly for agriculture. This Convention shall not affect the economic and financial order or the French agricultural social law, which has a higher level of guarantee than that required by the Convention; the level of minimum social standards provided for in Convention No 184 is already respected in enterprises in the French agriculture sector. However, we expect that the implementation of the Convention will have several positive implications. First of all, we expect a reduction in the number of co-activity-related accidents at work, both for employees and for agricultural self-employed people. Under the obligation to cooperate, 160,000 employees, hired at least one to six months a year, often young people in agricultural education, on probationary or apprenticeship contracts, or seasonal workers, will be better informed about the risks associated with co-activity. The preventive measures adopted also ensure the protection of the environment and its surrounding populations. We can only rejoice in that. In our country, occupational health policy is the subject of a plan, which runs from 2016 to 2020. It is a compass that allows us to move in the right direction. The system of labour inspection, referred to in Article 5 of the Convention, ensures compliance with these provisions, including in the agricultural sector. We also expect the implementation of this Convention to ensure better coordination of public policies in the fields of the environment, public health and health and safety at work, in consultation with the social partners representing the agricultural sector. These are the main observations called for by Convention No 184 on safety and health in agriculture. I am sure that the forthcoming interventions, in particular those of the rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will complete the process of enlightening national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u72	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u73	We are meeting today to discuss the bill to ratify International Labour Organization Convention No. 184 on safety and health in agriculture. The Secretary of State has just recalled that it is intended to guarantee agricultural workers health and safety guarantees at least equivalent to those of other workers. The agricultural sector is – as is little known – one of the three most dangerous sectors in the world for workers, with extractive industries and construction. More than 170,000 farmers are killed every year in the world, and this represents about half of the fatal accidents at work. The primary sector is exposed to specific risks, already mentioned: the use of machinery and chemicals as well as contact with animals. To this, we must add the weight of this informal sector, where the necessary measures are often not taken. Agriculture still employs nearly 30 per cent of the world's workers, particularly in developing countries. These figures required action. In 2016, France had 754,000 people working in the primary sector. And, contrary to what one might expect, our country is no exception in terms of the over-exposure of agricultural workers to occupational risks. According to the Agricultural Social Mutuality (ASM), in 2016, there were 172 deaths due to occupational factors, 70132 accidents at work and 5,472 occupational diseases reported. The ILO Convention No. 184 is of particular interest today to sound alarms. It can also allow us to grow a cocorico. Indeed, it dates back to 2001, and it is a French initiative. But it was not until 29 March 2019 that it was discussed in this Chamber. In order to reach this ratification, in fact, it was necessary to consult the social partners – CGT, FO, CFDT... –, the professional organisations... Curiously, even in the agricultural sector, we must ask for the opinion of all these people. There was also a problem for self-employed people, many in the agricultural sector, since an independent person often employs self-employed people. So everyone had to agree that these provisions would apply. As from 2001, the Convention imposes precautions in the use of machinery, Articles 9 and 10, in the transport of articles, Article 11, or protection against chemical hazards, Articles 12 and 13, or biological, in Article 14. I refer you to the text: we are already concerned about pesticides, products such as glyphosate. It also contains provisions on the protection of young workers, article 16, and the recognition of the specific needs of women, article 18. As I say again, this convention was drawn up in 2001! The specificities of the agricultural environment are important, but after everyone sat around the table, the law of 31 October 2014 allowed to comply with Article 6 of the Convention. European law already provides guarantees for workers in the agricultural sector. These include the March 2003 Directive on the protection of workers from chemical, physical and biological risks and the 2006 REACH Regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals and the 1989 Framework Directive on the Health and Safety of Workers. But it's 2019! Finally, we will ratify this convention. There is no real choice: our right is already in line with these provisions. Indeed, I recall our actions, of which I am proud. With the EGALIM law, we have dealt with the problem of chemicals. We were the first in the European Union to decide on the eventual ban on glyphosate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u74	It's not done yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u75	... and we plan to put an end to its use faster than the Union requires.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u76	You refused to include the ban in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u77	Only the rapporteur has the floor, Mr Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u78	[[Laughs]] The rapporteur has spoken of pushing a cocorico, Mr President, it is normal for me to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u79	In addition, the PACTE Bill provides for an amendment to the Commercial Code: the head of a farm or business will be required to make a declaration when his or her spouse carries on a regular business there. Thus, for the first time, the spouses will be truly recognized as a status. Similarly, the 2019 Social Security Financing Act provides for specific maternity leave for women farmers and self-employed workers. We will discuss the ratification of this Convention. But it must be acknowledged that we did a good job: before 2017, what had been planned since 2001 had not been done. I invite you to pass this bill, allowing for the ratification of this convention. We will set an example for other States, and if many of them follow us, then we can hope for harmonization of legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u81	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u82	A big thank you, first of all, to Martine Leguille-Balloy for her very comprehensive and very precise report, which served as the basis for an in-depth debate on this convention in committee. France is a large agricultural country. As such, we have a special responsibility to promote social and health standards for agricultural workers around the world. In a globalised economy, we cannot ignore working conditions in the countries of origin of the products we import. This responsibility is all the more important given that the most vulnerable populations are now concentrated in the agricultural sector. Global agriculture accounts for 70 per cent of the world's working children; In developing countries, women account for more than half of the agricultural labour force, but their access to land is much more difficult than it is for male workers; It is even sometimes forbidden to them. Our duty to be vigilant is all the more important given that the social standards applied in the agricultural sector remain very uneven among countries, when they are not non-existent. In this context, as our rapporteur has said, the ratification of this Convention will demonstrate France's commitment to the dissemination of standards of protection throughout the world. Agriculture is a key issue, particularly in many developing countries. Africa, for example, has enormous resource potential; Nearly 65 per cent of the world's uncultivated arable land is located there. Yet the African continent suffers from a trade deficit in agriculture and must import more than $35 billion in agricultural products each year. Agriculture accounts for more than half of the jobs, but only a quarter of GDP. For example, Africa produces almost three quarters of the world's cocoa, but only 16% of the ground cocoa. This is, in my view, the urgency: Europe must rethink its partnership with Africa, starting with its free trade agreements, particularly in agriculture. We, Europe, and France, must exert pressure on the international order to create a new balance that will preserve the natural resources and farmland of developing countries. It cannot be accepted that Africa's natural resources and cultivable lands are the subject of a real razzia for the benefit of Chinese industrialization alone. These resources belong to Africans! But we must also look at the long term. Because the agricultural sector accounts for almost 14 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions, sustainable agriculture is a necessity for the future of our planet and for economic development. It must be integrated into the fight against global warming and the promotion of sustainable development. In conclusion, I would like to point out that health and safety at work are subjects on which European Union law has enabled major advances, including the dissemination of shared standards for European workers, by providing Member States with common bases. In this context, the issue of the protection of agricultural workers will have to occupy a major place in the negotiations of the next common agricultural policy. These developments are essential in order to overcome the challenges that are now facing agricultural Europe, while thinking of the new global agricultural balance, for the benefit of developing countries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, SOC and GDR groups]] That is why I am naturally in favour of the ratification of this Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u83	In the general debate, Mr Bruno Joncour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u84	Today we have before us a bill authorizing the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No. 184 on safety and health in agriculture. The inclusion of this text on the agenda gives us an opportunity to address a topic that is sometimes relegated to second place, while everything contributes to putting it at the forefront of our priorities. As we know, farmers are among the most modest workers; We need to worry about their working conditions, because they are primarily concerned with many health and safety risks. This problem is not strictly French, but indeed international, which gives its raison d'être to this Convention of the International Labour Organization. While the share of agricultural workers in the labour force in France is less than 3%, it far exceeds that of other sectors in the world, since the agricultural sector still employs almost one third of the workers. Agriculture remains the world's leading provider of business. On the other hand, the food survival of the peoples of the world always depends on those men and women who invest every day in their work. If they represent one third of the workers, farmers are also the most affected by fatal accidents – 50% of all fatal accidents – bringing the number of farmers killed to over 170,000. In France, 172 farmers' deaths are linked to professional factors. The report also details the number of accidents at work and occupational diseases reported. These figures are all reasons to focus on ways to better protect farmers from occupational risks. French labour law already largely takes into account the protections listed in this Convention. That is why its adoption will not lead to a profound change in our law. The protection and prevention measures provided for in the Convention include, inter alia, Article 6, which requires, on the other hand, an adaptation of French law because it obliges States to oblige the employer to ensure the safety and health of workers in all matters relating to work. The Convention also strengthens the employer's control and assessment of the risks to health and safety. It requires ensuring that agricultural workers have received adequate training, with understandable instructions and guidance or guidance necessary for the performance of their work. It also develops the right to information and consultation on safety and health issues. Finally, it enhances the safety of equipment so that it complies with national standards. While these measures seem obvious, it should be remembered that progress in this area has always been difficult, not only in our European countries, but even more so at a global level. Moreover, this is proof of the time it took for France to ratify this Convention, which has not prevented it from rising to a high level of security, under the influence of the European Union, which is very much in advance in this area. However, there are still many challenges, particularly in the area of chemicals management, but also in the area of genetically modified organisms and living modified organisms. On these issues, our committee has recently been seized. We have seen the international community's efforts in this area, in particular through the Nagoya Protocol, which very precisely regulates the use and use of VMOs. With regard to chemicals, we also need to move forward by combining the risks that we discover as scientific research proceeds, and the challenges of transition, to ensure sustainable development for farmers. For our part, we regret that this Convention does not cover certain areas, such as subsistence agriculture, industrial processes using agricultural products as raw materials and related services, as well as the industrial exploitation of forests. Much work remains to be done on many issues, such as more rigorous monitoring of child labour, with the agricultural sector accounting for 50 per cent of the employment of minors. The same applies to equality between men and women. Finally, at the international level, this convention must be an opportunity for France, in particular through its diplomatic action, to promote the integration of its provisions into future cooperation agreements that it could enter into with its partners. This diplomatic activism is all the more important because, at present, the Convention has been ratified by only sixteen States, among which none of the world's leading countries of the future, the United States, China, Brazil or India. Many projects have therefore yet to be opened, in order to advance this theme in the world. France, at the origin of the creation of the International Labour Organization, has since invested itself in the defence of this international institution which deserves to be given a greater place, because it places its action in the perspective of a more united world. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of the text proposed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u85	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u86	These sessions to ratify international conventions are invigorating: they are simply spoken about, but there is much to be said about them. I hope that they can be further taken up by the press, because unfortunately this is not yet the case. I said "invigorating" by thinking of our colleague Jimmy Pahun, who explained with all his heart what the navy meant to him. I will allow myself to do the same by reminding myself that, like most French people, I came from the agricultural world – at about 80%: my great-grandparents, my grandparents and my parents owned a farm, which one of my cousins took over today. Because I still know how to harvest, drive a tractor, perhaps even milk, I know the risks and dangers of this trade. The history of the agricultural world is extraordinary. In the years 1936 and 1946, agricultural circles objected in principle to progress and social progress, in particular to agricultural social security, the MSA or the social mutuality of agriculture. Despite this, all successive governments have tried to improve their condition. For example, more than 60 years after this ideological blockage, we recently voted for the extension to farmers of the scheme guaranteeing a status to the spouses of entrepreneurs. The convention, which we sign today, as symbolic as it is, offers real provisions. We are one of the few countries in the world capable of paying real attention to the agricultural world. It would be good if it extended to other countries because, as Bruno Joncour said, very few of them – eight in Europe – have ratified the convention. It is extremely annoying that major agricultural countries have not done the same. My cousin farmers always look at the European directives on agriculture, either ironically or with anger, as they seem to be written by copyists who, such as Bouvard and Pécuchet, try to become familiar with agriculture. They are sometimes forced to accept ridiculous provisions and implement them on their farms. With this text, we are not in the same register. Accidents in agriculture can be extremely serious. Last September, I read to my cousin an article from the Courrier picard which clearly explained the causes of the accidents: farmers are alone, they want to succeed, but they go too fast; They are not trained and do not have the culture of risks related to working conditions, as in the Committees on Health, Safety and Working Conditions – CHSCT. The beam must be mounted, the tractor must start... This continuing state of mind should be studied as part of training. In addition, I read in this or another article in West France that almost 45% of accidents concern young farmers, who have been settled for less than seventeen months. This means that there is probably a training problem. Without criticising agricultural schools, on the contrary, I believe that the Ministry of Education could question this, because the figure is still speaking. Two remarks to conclude, and the first on glyphosate. Despite his personal commitment, Emmanuel Macron estimated, on January 24, 2019, that France would not be able to do without this controversial herbicide in three years' time. He said: "I know that there are some who would like to be banned overnight. I'm telling you, one, not feasible, and it would kill our agriculture. And even in three years, we won't make 100%. We can't do it, I think. I have worked on similar topics, such as the prohibition of bisphenol in bottles. It is obvious that industrialists cannot adapt immediately. A solution must therefore be found. Today, it is believed that 90% of glyphosate in France can be removed from the market, from existing intermediate solutions. For the remaining 10%, action will still have to be taken, because a commitment has been made and this is really starting to be a problem. We must think quickly, in order to fulfil the commitments of the President of the Republic, the commitments of France, and avoid the risk of our peasants and their neighbours. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Bruno Joncour also applauds]] My second point concerns the compensation fund for the victims of plant protection products proposed by various groups on the left of the House. This structure is indispensable, knowing that today 15,000 people are involved – not to mention the dozens of people who died long before. In 2020, at the request of parliamentarians, the Government is expected to submit a report on this matter to Parliament. Such a fund, similar to the asbestos victims' compensation fund, seems to me to be a legitimate measure of social and health justice. It is important to think about it quite quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u87	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u88	We are dealing with the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No. 184 on safety and health in agriculture, a sector of great interest to our country. France is the largest agricultural power in Europe. Production in 2018 is estimated at €73 billion, or 17% of the European market. But agriculture is mostly engaged men and women, who work hard; 450000 farmers whose average wage is around 1200 euros, knowing that an estimated one third of them have incomes below 350 euros. In this sector, rules and standards are increasing. These ungrateful and often undescribed occupations, however, contribute 6.7% to GDP. I adhere to the previous interventions, but I would like to stress this human capital, which is a wealth for France, almost a heritage. Agriculture in a way founded the French identity in the world and made it shine through its products. At 20,000 kilometers, we are very proud to be French Polynesians, and we eat both raw fish and baguette, both of which are part of Polynesia's traditions. Agriculture conveys our image, we must not forget it. I would like to pay tribute, as we did earlier for our fishermen, to our farmers. Agriculture in Polynesia is a little different because it concerns other practices and products. But we share the pride we can feel about him. We must keep a benevolent eye on the agricultural world, which is facing serious difficulties today. While our country dominates the European market, very strict European policies impose sometimes contradictory norms and strategic policies. I do not go back to the preconisation of certain crops and no other crops, nor to the standardization which obliges farmers to go in one direction and, ten years later, to another – I am thinking of biofuels. Our agriculture is made of all this, and it is an agriculture of the future. In this respect, I want to go back to the human capital aspect to point out that half of our 450,000 farmers are over 50 years old, and that their number is continuously declining from year to year. We must ask ourselves about the attractiveness of the agricultural sector, which is fundamental for our country. We would, of course, like to see the ratification of the Convention, which is accompanied by Recommendation No 192 on health and safety in agriculture, which is intended to guide governments in the implementation of national policies in this field. France has already been very active on these subjects, it is even at the cutting edge, but at what cost? That is all at stake and the difficulty of agricultural policies. It is nice to be at the forefront of European and international events to send strong messages to developing countries, but what is the situation in our country? How do our farmers experience this situation? Very difficult. If ratification of the Convention has been held back – because we are long overdue – it was to allow social dialogue. We must thank the Government for having been able to take this time. But once the Convention is ratified, it will have to be implemented while maintaining a permanent dialogue so that its objectives become a reality tomorrow. As with the previous convention, too few States have ratified the convention, and for reasons! Yes, France is committed to a virtuous approach, which, given the stakes, requires a constant dialogue with the entire sector. I would like to conclude by referring to the use of chemicals and the many risks that surround them. I am thinking of glyphosate but also chlordecone in the West Indies – a scandal. Let us learn from what happened in the West Indies, let us not wait until our successors, in twenty years' time, come and tell us that it is outrageous not to have banned the use of glyphosate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u89	Like asbestos!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u90	It was the same for asbestos. How many more deaths will it take for us to have the courage to move forward? I understand the need to make progress at European level, so that our agriculture does not suffer unfair competition within the European Union; That is why there is a need to deepen Europe and to achieve a harmonization of virtuous and courageous policies. We have many tips to give others, but let us be brave to apply them, especially on this subject. I know it's complex – I don't judge anyone, I have my personal opinion that is probably more absolute, because it's about people's health and lives. I do not deny the economic stakes, but it is urgent to speed up the movement to protect the 450,000 farmers who can be exposed to these serious dangers tomorrow. There are several ways to support our agriculture on the path to sustainable agriculture. During the discussion of the 2019 Finance Bill, I raised the issue of support for biopesticides research – you should be interested in it. Today, access to the research tax credit is really insufficient. Regulatory barriers prevent French companies, which are leaders in this field, from deploying more quickly the biopesticides and bio-insecticide solutions that would allow us to accelerate the movement. Let us be vigilant, let us not be naive, those who produce pesticides are the first to try to block the emergence of biopesticides, even seeking to appropriate this market and to exclude specialized companies. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, SOC and GDR groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] All these issues should be addressed in the convention. It cannot be just about health and safety at work. Like fisheries, there is a need to introduce training plans that integrate the environmental component, and to strengthen training in the use of sustainable products that would benefit farmers' health and business development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u91	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u92	Today we are invited to approve the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No. 184 on occupational health and safety in the agricultural sector, one of the three sectors most dangerous to the health of workers, with the extractive industries and construction. Before a general comment on the contradictions of our country in terms of safety and health in agriculture and its liberal passivity, I would like to make a passage through the country of Bray, this breeding land in my constituency. It is a way to plant the decor, to recall what the harshness of the earth's trades mean, the hardness, the test and endurance of the bodies, the risks and the health to the test of peasant work. This detour in the country of Bray is a summary of a milk farmer's day. In the spring – here we are – from 6 a.m. to 6:30 a.m., it is the turn of the herds for surveillance and movement towards trafficking; from 6.30 a.m. to 8 a.m., trafficking in the trafficking room; from 8 a.m. to 8.20 a.m., washing; From 8.20 a.m. to 9 a.m., cleaning of concrete surfaces, scraping with the tractor; From 9 a.m. to 9.30 a.m., the drinking of calves and the monitoring of other animals; From 9.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m., feeding with two specific machines for lifting and distribution and then mulching. There have been three thirty hours of train work which have just passed, with three tractors or self-propelled, plus fifteen to thirty minutes of recording of animal events. If the weather is favorable, the breeder performs the seasonal work, more or less long depending on the period. It will have to assemble several different materials on tractors used in the morning. To perform three to five hours of seasonal work, he will have laid six to eight crutches and ordered ten to twelve different hydraulic levers related to the equipment, mounted and descended three to five steps more than sixty times in the milking room, on the tractor etc. From 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., the animals should be brought closer to milking and the calves should be drunk if necessary. If the farmer is an employer of labour, the farmer fills out the unique, tedious, occupational risk assessment document. But it does not take into account fatigue, poorly performed maintenance and timing, poorly maintained brakes, crutches and levers, or speed of execution. All this is just a brief overview of what is going on in the organizations of those who work in the fields – very wide timescales; seven days a week for farmers; handling with constant tool changes that increase the risk of injury and make the agricultural profession a profession where lumbagos are no longer counted and then, at the time of retirement, worn bodies. Even yesterday, I was on a farm where the farmer, yet young, told me to suffer from this recurrent back pain. This reality makes it necessary for the public authorities to pay close attention to health in the agricultural sector. It imposes steps forward, as in the case of this Convention, the purpose of which is to "ensure that farmers have the same protection as workers in other sectors". Entered into force more than fifteen years ago – I welcome, by the way, the class of a Dieppe establishment that has just taken place in the stands – this convention has so far been ratified by sixteen states. In a context of slowing down the pace of ratification of the ILO conventions at the global level, the ratification of the Convention by France, a founding member of an organization celebrating its centenary, has a symbolic significance that must not be overestimated or neglected either. France's international credit is, in fact, now largely underpinned by an incoherent foreign policy. The policy of small arrangements as well as the systematic alignment with German economic policy and US foreign policy have made our country lose its credibility on the international stage. We can no doubt be satisfied that France complies with the minimum set of social standards laid down in the Convention on Agriculture, but we must bear in mind that health and safety in the agricultural sector remain topical issues in our country, both in the regulation of international trade and in the protection of farmers and residents against certain proven health risks. The fatal accidents that hit young workers last year also invite, Mr. Secretary of State, to draw consequences in this sector and, beyond that, on the reform of the labour inspectorate that took place in 2014. The scope, in the context of international trade, of France's ratification of the ILO conventions can be questioned. Last February, our Assembly authorised the ratification of the free trade treaty negotiated between the European Union and Japan. Japan had not ratified two of the eight core ILO conventions: the one on the abolition of forced labour and the one on discrimination. This implies that these two conventions are not applicable within the framework of the Treaty. Neither is the precautionary principle, while Japan is the country that allows the most genetically modified organisms in food. This illustrates the level of consideration that the Liberals you are – please excuse me, Mr. Secretary of State – have for social and environmental standards, which, in your opinion, often overly impede trade. From this point of view, the principle laid down in the EGALIM law that "in any new free trade agreement... a high degree of requirement in cooperation on social, environmental, sanitary, phytosanitary and animal welfare standards" should be ensured appears to be a paper barrier. Nor can we be satisfied with the situation regarding the exposure of farmers and the agricultural world to chemical risk. Ten years after the launch in 2008 of the first Ecophyto plan, which aimed to reduce pesticide consumption by 50 per cent over the decade, one must note that pesticide consumption has increased far from declining, to the point where the Government has postponed the reduction target to 2025. The causes of this failure are many: the demands for efficiency and the worsening of the logics of competitiveness, of course, but also the fact that the French agricultural model has been abandoned to give it a human dimension. In the absence of means to support farmers and better involvement of all the players in the downstream chain – the agri-food industry and large-scale distribution – we are unable to change the situation towards an improvement in the normative framework, which we regret before you today. However, environmental and health issues should lead us to show greater will when it comes to supporting research, particularly public research, protecting our agriculture from the ravages of free trade and actively supporting our farmers. From this point of view, the EGALIM Act remained very general, albeit generous. It is also urgent – others have mentioned it before me – to stop delaying compensation for damage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u93	Absolutely! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u94	We know what health drama has represented asbestos for the workers in our territories. Jean-Paul Lecoq, Member of Parliament for Le Havre, and I have made a great deal of efforts to ensure that asbestos victims get better reparations, notably through the Fund for the Compensation of Asbestos Victims, which should be better fed. We are proposing the creation of a fund in the agricultural sector which compensates those affected by these filthy diseases caused by pesticides for the damage suffered. A word about the labour inspectorate. The report recalls that in France, 2188 labour inspectors and 27 agents responsible for monitoring prevention are responsible for monitoring compliance with regulations on health and safety at work. Since the merger in 2009 of the labour inspectorates responsible for agriculture, sea, transport, industry and trade, the inspection officers responsible for the agricultural system have been under the responsibility of each regional Directorate of Enterprise, Competition, Consumption, Labour and Employment – DIRECCTE. However, the report noted that the 2017 Labour Orders weakened occupational health policies, not only because they removed the CHSCT, but also because they replaced the Personal Account for Prevention of Penitence with the Occupational Account for Prevention. Since October 2017, only six risk factors have been included in this new account. Measurement of exposure to the risks that have been excluded is no longer required. As for the means of labour inspection, they are constantly diminishing. We found that they had experienced the largest volume reduction among all budget missions. After falling by 9% in 2018, the corresponding credits will fall further, by 13% this year. Mr Secretary of State, these few examples suffice to point out that France is on a downward path in terms of social and environmental standards. [[Smile]] I come to my conclusion, to hold within the ten minutes imposed by the President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u95	No, by our rules, Mr. Jumel!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups. – Ms. Maina Sage also applauds]] We will vote for the authorization to ratify this Convention, because it is still a step forward, which we do not want to erase, despite its own limitations and the Government's ambition in terms of safety and health in agriculture. However, this step must be put into perspective in the light of what is the working day of a farmer, in particular that of the dairy farmer in Bray, which I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u97	In the end, we end up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u98	I note that the Dieppe class in the gallery applauded you, Mr. Jumel. This is not entirely in line with the practice of the House, but I would like to welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u99	This is my daughter's class!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u100	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u101	Eating is not just a vital act. It is also, as everyone knows, a social, political and even legal act. It is also a sacred act. In this regard, allow me to repeat Michel Serres' words: "The peasant is the foster father of humanity. In this he occupies an exceptional position in the human condition. No professional is comparable to him. Yet another injustice, the same no doubt, today brings the peasantry to ruin, while no one could do without it. » It is because agrarian culture allows us to survive that it is our responsibility for all – public authorities, courts, international organizations such as the International Labour Organization – to integrate the health and safety of farmers into our priorities. This particular interest is linked to an issue not only of human dignity, but also of development at work, the corollary of which is better productivity and greater competitiveness for businesses. Agriculture is one of the three most dangerous sectors in the world for those who have chosen to work there. Recall that suicides and burn-outs are abnormally numerous in the agricultural world. Often caught between Bashing agriculture and the lack of interest of the public authorities, the latter gradually emptied of its living forces and struggled to generate vocations. We must accompany this highly strategic sector for France and for the rest of the world. I would point out that famine and malnutrition still do not belong to the past. At the same time, we need to enhance the agricultural professions. In particular, there is a need for more skills training, greater use of new technologies and better ergonomics in the workplaces in order to preserve our farmers. Yes, farmers must be able to live with dignity from their work, but they must also be proud and fulfilling. A sustainable and responsible agriculture has no chance of existence without agricultural professionals well in their skin and eager to transform their know-how and expertise. Many actors work on a daily basis to meet these challenges. I would like to mention the International Centre for Advanced Mediterranean Agronomic Studies, an intergovernmental Mediterranean organization based in Paris – I know it intimately, because my wife works there. For more than fifty years, CIHEAM has been training and assisting small farmers and fishermen, as close as possible to the needs of rural areas. They face the devastating effects of climate change, deterioration and depletion of resources such as water. They must overcome a rural exodus with disastrous economic and social consequences. Valuing the agricultural profession also means developing basic principles to be observed in order to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases and to ensure that workers in the agricultural sector enjoy the same protection as workers in other sectors. This is precisely the purpose of this Convention, of which the Freedom and Territory Group supports ratification. However, we believe that it is essential for States to become aware of the need to go further in order to integrate the cross-cutting dimension of sustainable development. This is the message that the United Nations sent to all the states of the world in 2015 by adopting the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Its objective 8 is "to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all". It thus focuses on the health and safety of workers. However, we are far from consuming and producing with respect for the planet and at its own pace. In addition, child labour in agriculture between the ages of 5 and 17 remains a reality in many States. We cannot stand by, while almost 98 million girls and boys enter the labour market every year in the world, often very young and without pay. We know the factors that contribute to child labour in agriculture: poverty, lack of education, traditions, inaccessibility of the adult labour force. While progress has been made in eliminating child labour in agriculture, there are still obstacles that this Convention, adopted in 2001, fails to unlock. This is partly due to the small number of countries that have ratified it: only sixteen. France will ratify the Convention in turn, and I hope that this will be a strong signal to all States where child labour in agriculture remains the norm and where women are not considered. I want to believe that the French ratification will have a driving effect, which will allow us to see the advent of more ethics, safety and health protection in agriculture, a sector where accidents mainly affect migrants, day labourers, children and women. The agrochemical giant, Monsanto, has once again been convicted by an American court for serious health damage to several users of his star weedkiller. Hazards in agriculture are partly related to the use of and exposure to chemicals, including pesticides, fertilizers and antibiotics. In France, almost 10% of employees are exposed to carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic chemicals. The debate on the inclusion of the ban on glyphosate in the law divides our assembly, but we can all agree that it has raised major safety issues in the agricultural world. In my personal capacity, I voted in favour of this measure. If we do not all agree, on these benches, on the method to be used to get out of glyphosate, we all make the same observation: this product is dangerous and it is necessary to get out of it. These public health and environmental and biodiversity issues bring together members of the Libertés et territoires group. They are part of our DNA, and we measure its importance in our territories every day. I also see how crucial agriculture is in Africa, particularly in my constituency of French abroad. In rural areas, the majority of the population lives in agriculture. The potential for growth only needs to be expressed in this sector, but this can only be done in decent working conditions, i.e. in accordance with the basic principles laid down by the ILO. Although the number of ratifications remains low – as I said – I remain convinced that countries like France can drive a dynamic and lead the way. That is why the Libertés et Territoire Group is pleased that France, in turn, is ratifying this Convention. It is our hope that this will be an opportunity for our country to carry the standard of agricultural safety and health on the international stage. [[Ms. Maina Sage applauds]] You know as much as I do, ladies and gentlemen, that France loves its farmers. I like agriculture and farmers. That is why we will always be at their side to meet the many challenges that are still before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u102	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u103	The health and safety of workers is a priority of the International Labour Organization. The convention to be ratified today focuses on the protection of agricultural workers, who too often do not have the same guarantees as other workers. The objective of the Convention is to guide governments in the implementation of safety and health policies in agriculture. Agricultural activity is one of the three most dangerous sectors in the world for workers, the other two being mining and construction. According to the ILO's estimate, more than half of the 335,000 fatal accidents at work that occur each year in the world affect farmers. According to the Agricultural Social Mutuality, in France, for 700,000 accidents at work reported in 2016, 172 employees and agricultural non-employees died. There are many factors that explain this dangerousness. Agriculture belongs to the informal sector in many States because of its organizational level, specificity and scale. It brings together a wide range of situations: daily and permanent workers, companies of all sizes, machines that are always different. In order to overcome these dangers, the Convention provides for standards to be met – minimum standards, but extremely essential. It establishes a clear legal framework to reduce the number of accidents at work, which are still too high in France and around the world. The protective framework of the Convention must benefit all workers in the sector, regardless of their status, regardless of their age. Among its provisions, I would like to pay tribute to those aimed at underage agricultural workers, particularly those in apprenticeship. Indeed, throughout France, many young people are now in training to become farmers, farmers or to learn how to work the land. In Montreuil-Bellay, Maine-et-Loire, the professional agricultural school Edgard-Pisani trains them brilliantly. These young people, whom I had the honour of welcoming to the National Assembly last year, produce their own wine in the Haut Bellay estate. Workers' accidents must not break the momentum of their dynamism or their desire to radiate our territories. Learning is a way of excellence, especially in the agricultural community. We, elected by the majority, supported it when we passed the law on freedom to choose its professional future. It is an essential tool for everyone's success. By protecting apprentices, we encourage the dynamism of the sectors. Our support for this convention, which the Senate has already adopted, will be of major political significance. In addition to promoting our values of worker protection, France is a leading ILO country. As a founding member, it is now the second-largest State in terms of ratification of conventions, just behind Spain and before Italy; 127 conventions and two ILO protocols are now in force in our country. France is a major agricultural country in Europe and throughout the world. This position must push us ever more to set an example to protect our farmers and to defend sustainable agriculture. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I therefore invite you to vote in favour of this convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u104	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u105	Today we are invited to take a decision on the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No. 184 on safety and health in agriculture, adopted in Geneva on 21 June 2001. The importance of ratifying this Convention does not need to be established; It's self-imposed. Nearly 500,000 farms are present on French territory, and nearly one million people are regularly involved in their activities. The Government and Parliament support farmers by providing them with the legal means to achieve a safe and healthy agricultural sector. For example, on 11 September 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Labour and the Central Fund of Agricultural Social Mutuality signed a national convention for the integration of occupational health and safety in agricultural education for the period 2018-2022. Its main objective is the integration of health and safety issues at work into the teaching of agricultural sectors. But we need to go further. The mechanization of agriculture has been developed with the aim of increasing productivity, reducing the length of work and ensuring the safety of the operator, while integrating new requirements, in particular with regard to respect for the environment, comfort and safety. Despite these advances, accidents remain too high in the agricultural and forestry sectors. Unfortunately, the last of the sectors with the highest risk of accidents, the agricultural sector needs to be given special attention in terms of safety and health. It is at this stage that the legislator must work, by providing farmers with a legal framework enabling them to work safely. Indeed, at a time when health is a general concern, we must pay particular attention to the health of farmers, who are exposed to factors that make it worse. The Convention must become a safeguard for farmers and allow them access to a more protective agricultural health system. Prevention and protection are the key words that dictated its drafting. It is these same words that must now lead to its ratification. These requirements for prevention and protection will include the establishment of a competent authority responsible for implementing and enforcing national legislation on safety and health at work in agriculture, the definition of the rights and obligations of employers and workers with regard to safety and health at work, the establishment of mechanisms for intersectoral coordination between the authorities and bodies responsible for the sector, the designation of an authority which will have the possibility to issue appropriate corrective measures and sanctions, and the development of a system of adequate and appropriate inspection of agricultural workplaces. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons, I invite you to allow the ratification of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u106	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u107	In 2016, the Agricultural Social Mutuality registered no less than 70000 accidents at work in the agricultural sector, i.e. around 11% of industrial accidents in France. Between back pain, stress, fatigue or accidents related to machinery or the use of plant protection products, farmers face specific risks, not least. This bill authorizing the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No. 184 therefore invites us to address once again the issue of the safety and health of our farmers. This is a good thing because, if, in France, agricultural workers are protected by fairly strict standards, this is not always the case elsewhere. And this sector, which employs one third of the world's workers, accounts for 50% of fatal accidents at work. In our country, ratification will have virtually no consequences, because our labour law is already very specific in terms of security. However, the text is interesting by its symbolic scope. It follows from a laudable desire to question working conditions in the world of agriculture and to inform farmers about the dangerousness of certain plant protection products. It is therefore right for France to commit itself to the subject. However, let us not fall into complacency. Members who spoke in committee seemed generally satisfied with the health of French farmers. It is understandable if we compare ourselves with less well-known countries. However, if we look more closely at the data provided by the National Public Health Agency, we find that there is also no need to pavoise. In addition to the specific problems I have already mentioned, it is especially the risk of depression which is extremely present in our farmers, and which cannot leave indifferent: 14.7% of employed agricultural workers and 21.2% of women workers have symptoms of depression. Among non-employees, these rates are 13.6 per cent for men and 19.1 per cent for women. In men, prevalence increases significantly with age. By comparison, 5.3% of men and 11.4% of women in all settings suffered from a depressive episode in 2017. This gap between the agricultural sector and the other professions is not difficult to understand: despite huge work, too many farmers are unable to pay themselves decently. Similarly, the suicide rate of our farmers is more than alarming, but this subject has not even been mentioned in committee. But – do we have to remind him again? – 156 farmers commit suicide each year in France, or about one every two days. That is why we must not be too gargarian about the ratification of this convention, which will have little bearing on our soil, whereas today some of our farmers are still desperate, which explains these suicides in numbers. There is a real gap between intentions and effects. Members welcomed the fact that the ratification of this Convention gives them the opportunity to "demonstrate their commitment" to the issue of the safety and health of farmers. But the latter demand more than attachment; they need concrete solutions. Ratifying conventions is good; To support our farmers in practice is better. Setting a framework that puts an end to unfair competition between our agriculture and that of foreign countries, including some of our neighbours to the European Union that are not subject to the same standards as we are, would be interesting. In this sense, the convention could be useful by pulling the standards upwards. To date, however, it has only been ratified by 17 countries, only a few in the European Union. All this will take time. Time and courage! Unfortunately, I fear that we will be content with petitions in principle. Let us take the example of glyphosate, since this subject has been raised in committee and we can no longer talk about the health of farmers without addressing it. We want to ban it in France, but will we stop importing American soybeans that contain it? Similarly, and closer to us, will we stop importing Spanish wines whose vines are treated with plant protections perfectly prohibited in France? It is a comprehensive reflection on plant protection products that must be carried out. This concerns not only the health of agricultural workers and consumers, the environment, but also the profitability of farms. For those who have made large financial investments cannot change the pattern by slamming fingers without taking the risk of putting the key under the door. Health, environment and profitability of farms, everything is connected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u108	On the single article, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u109	This morning we are debating the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No 184 on safety and health in agriculture. As my colleagues have pointed out, this Convention, which was adopted in 2001 and entered into force in 2003, has to date been ratified by 16 States. The ratification process, initiated in 2008 by France, had been interrupted in order to adapt French law to certain provisions. The future law for agriculture, food and forestry, ratified in 2014, removed the obstacles. There is no longer any legal or structural obstacle to the ratification of this Convention. France remains the leading agricultural power at European level with more than 885000 farm managers, of whom 41% are women, for about 448000 farms. It ranks first at European level in the production of cereals and beef and veal, and second at world level in the production of wine. Obviously, we have a special relationship with agriculture. Year after year, the growing success of the Salon de l'Agriculture testifies to the almost carnal attachment of the French to their terroir. Being a leader in many sectors also calls for more responsibility to lead the other Member States of the European Union, but also and above all the members of the ILO, to the ratification of this Convention. This one has symbolic strength for all of us. In addition, it underlines France's willingness to continue to improve our agricultural system. This is the policy posted since 2017 by the Government. I am attached to my territory, the Seine-et-Marne, which is made up of 58% agricultural land and has more than 3000 farms, in which nearly 6420 people work every day to produce the basis of our food, to ensure that animal welfare and the use of greener grasslands are respected, but also to offer us a more organic diet. Perhaps you already know, the Seine-et-Marne has two PDOs: Melun's brie and Meaux's. It is to tell you how proud we, the deputies of Seine-et-Marne, can be of our department and its small hands which, every day, sublimate our terroir. In fact, I would like to highlight the progress that our government has made in favour of agriculture, with the EGALIM Act, but also with the PACTE Act, which now obliges the farm manager to declare his or her spouse when he or she is engaged in a regular activity. With this last law, we allow women joint farmers to enjoy real status and recognition. Article 47 of the Social Security Financing Act of 2019 has aligned the maternity leave of women farmers with that of women employees of the general scheme. Women farmers now receive maternity leave of between eight and sixteen weeks. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that only one in two women take maternity leave in the agricultural sector? Pregnant women must be provided with optimal safety, especially when they are engaged in a trade that requires physical skills and involves dangerousness associated with the use of chemicals. Women farmers have been left behind for a long time and are now receiving increased medical attention. The report of 8 March 2017 to the European Parliament, drawn up by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as well as by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on "women and their roles in rural areas", highlighted a large number of inequalities, disparities, if not injustices linked to the lack of recognition of women's status. Through this ratification, France sets an example at European level for a legal framework to be established and – why not – for a convergence towards the beginnings of a European labour law. Being a woman must not be an obstacle to the exercise of this exciting profession. Let us not forget that France occupies a special place among the 187 members of the International Labour Organization. In order to combat inequalities of treatment in the world, it is essential that we agree on the protection of our workers. Signing this Convention has also made us accountable to third countries, starting with developing countries. We need to accelerate the conclusion of partnerships to support them in the development of protocols for sustainable agriculture and employee protection. Ratification of this Convention is also a means of awakening global awareness of the protection of the most vulnerable workers. I am referring here to children, who are most often exploited, and whose average age is less than 15 years, which is below the derogation limit laid down in the convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u110	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u111	[[Mr. M的jid El Guerrab and Mr. Bruno Joncour applaud]] We must also encourage some major groups working in Asia, Latin America or Africa, which have an important role to play, to get in close contact with those States and to revise certain protocols. They must be the driving force behind a lasting improvement in the safety and health of agricultural workers. French social law has undergone numerous reforms since 2001, which have made it one of the most protective national rights. This ratification would be a strong sign given by a founding ILO country. I invite you to authorize it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u112	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u113	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u114	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u115	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 20 Number of votes cast 20 Absolute majority 11 For adoption 20 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u116	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u117	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u118	The next item is the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on cooperation in defence matters and the status of forces (No. 899, 1412).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u119	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u120	Nigeria is the future demographic giant of an African continent with more than 2.5 billion inhabitants by 2050. It is already the first economic power and is at the crossroads of regional security issues. I would like to remind the national representative that Nigeria is the epicentre of major threats and geostrategic issues that are of primary concern to France. The presence of terrorist groups, organized and active, on its territory and in the vicinity of the Sahel requires our constant attention. Nigeria is also the epicentre of maritime insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea. Yet, for many years, Nigeria has remained absent from our defence strategy in Africa. Our bilateral defence relationship was minimized. The awareness took place from 2014 onwards: we all know the abuses of the terrorist group Boko Haram, and we remember in particular the kidnapping of the 276 high school girls in Chibok and the global emolument it had aroused. France had been the manoeuvring force for the organisation of a summit in Paris and the reactivation of the multinational joint force between Nigeria, Niger, Chad, Cameroon and Benin. As a result, France has established defence relations with its Nigerian partner. This relationship has been gradually extended through operational cooperation, notably in the fight against Boko Haram, with actions to promote maritime security, with a high-level council, teaching French in the military environment and the holding of an annual High Defence Committee. An agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on defence cooperation and status of forces was signed on 16 June 2016. It provides a solid legal basis for this enhanced cooperation. The agreement contains a number of provisions relating to matters of a legislative nature and, as such, must be submitted to Parliament for approval under article 53 of the Constitution. That is the meaning of the bill that I have the honour to put to your vote. This agreement is necessary, and I repeat, as part of France's international strategy. The 2008 White Paper on Defence and National Security, confirmed by the 2013 White Paper and the 2017 Strategic Review of Defence and National Security, identified the stabilization of Africa as a priority of our prevention strategy. For example, for several years, France has begun to recast its agreements with its main African partners. Our approach is that of defence cooperation and support for the African peacekeeping architecture. France wishes to be able to carry out larger-scale military cooperation activities, particularly in the context of the fight against terrorism. The conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement allows for legal protection adapted to all French elements deployed, through the definition of a status of forces. That is the logic of this defence cooperation agreement. In this regard, it is comparable to agreements concluded, in a renovated framework, with other African States since the early 2010s. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement sets out the general principles and areas of defence cooperation. He created a High Committee for the Defence of France and Nigeria. It contains reciprocal provisions to legally cover French staff in Nigeria and Nigerian staff in France. It provides for a number of facilities in terms of conditions of entry and residence, the wearing of uniforms, regulations relating to driving licences, the carrying and use of weapons, exemption from duties and taxes on the import and re-export of equipment and other goods intended for the exclusive use of forces. This agreement secures the deployment of members of the French armed forces, by establishing a division of jurisdiction in the event of an infringement. As Nigeria still has the death penalty in its legal arsenal, this agreement secures French staff members and allows us to respect our constitutional and treaty requirements. The text does not contain a clause involving France's assistance to Nigeria in the event of external aggression or internal disturbances. Our strategy is based on a single imperative: African actors are the primary guarantors of their security. As a traditional partner of the United States and the United Kingdom, Nigeria recognizes France's commitment to Africa's security and shares our strategic directions. Two High Bilateral Defence Committees were held in April 2016 in Abuja and March 2018 in Paris. The next one will take place at the end of 2019 or the beginning of 2020. These meetings confirmed our strategic priorities. France, without troops committed to the ground, supports the regional response in the fight against Boko Haram and against terrorist groups. We are acting bilaterally for the benefit of Nigeria, Chad, Cameroon and Niger in terms of training, intelligence and the disposal of equipment. The most promising axis of our defence relationship remains the accompaniment of the regional response against maritime insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea, for which the Corymbe naval mission is requested. This is a major strategic issue. Our naval cooperation is growing, with significant economic benefits and, above all, greater security for all maritime movements. Our defence relationship also involves teaching French in a military environment and equipping Nigerian forces. Operational training for the Nigerian armed forces was increased in 2018, with six operational training detachments. In response to Nigeria's desire to improve its military cooperation with its French-speaking neighbours, we launched two French-language teaching projects in the fall of 2018 to all cadets of the military academy and officers of the central headquarters. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, defence cooperation is being built and enriched between France and Nigeria. It seems more necessary than ever to actively combat terrorism and preserve maritime security. We share with Nigeria a number of security concerns and major issues. Under the terms of this agreement, our cooperation will only be strengthened. It will protect all French military and personnel who will participate in the various operations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Senate passed the bill authorizing the approval of this agreement. In order for the bill to come into force after ratification by Nigeria, I invite national representation to also pass this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u121	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u122	We are called upon to ratify a defence cooperation agreement with Nigeria, concluded in June 2016. The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has just reminded us of the scope of this text, which provides a comprehensive legal framework for our emerging military cooperation with Nigeria. I will not dwell on the content of this agreement, which is similar to the other defence cooperation agreements concluded by France with African countries since 2008. I will simply insist on their common philosophy. In general, these conventions are in line with our desire to reshape our military relationship with the African continent, making it true partnerships, with the ultimate objective of helping African countries to ensure their own security. In this new approach, there is also the idea that France must expand its traditional areas of influence in order to develop a more global vision of Africa. With Nigeria, this approach seems more than relevant to me. I recall that this country is the most populous and richest in Africa, with nearly 200 million people and a GDP of $400 billion. Nigeria's wealth still relies heavily on hydrocarbons – oil and gas – but the country has begun economic diversification in the services sector. The film and music industry is also on the rise: in 2017, it generated more than $4 billion, or more than 1% of GDP. The country already has 22 billionaires, 34,000 millionaires...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u123	That's good! That means the poor are even poorer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u124	... and a middle class representing 20% of the population. Although wealth is very unevenly distributed, these figures give an idea of its considerable potential. President Muhammadu Buhari, who was re-elected last month with a comfortable majority, will, however, urgently face many challenges. Nigeria is indeed a giant with clay feet; It faces multiple security problems: terrorism, with Boko Haram, conflicts between farmers and herders in the Middle Belt region and maritime piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, among others. Nigeria's security concerns are with us in this part of the world. France is militarily engaged in the fight against terrorism in the Sahelo-Saharan band, just north of Nigeria. Our national navy is permanently present in the Gulf of Guinea, with the Corymbe mission. The French military are also a little more in the East, in the Central African Republic, and in the South, in Gabon. Nigeria therefore appears to be a key partner in this region of the world. However, when we look at the history of our defence cooperation, we are surprised to see that it is very limited. In fact, before 2014, we had very few exchanges with Nigeria in this area. This land was entirely abandoned to the Americans and the British. It is therefore not a question of re-founding, but of establishing a defence partnership with Nigeria. This is the first time we have negotiated such an agreement. Our cooperation has taken a new form, particularly in the context of the fight against Boko Haram; Our intelligence provides support to Nigeria. This support has received a very favourable reception from our partner. Since then, we have gradually expanded the scope of our cooperation, but its scope remains modest. I met the ambassador of Nigeria in France and also went there. On each of these occasions, I have seen how much Nigerians are seeking to develop cooperation with us, alongside what the British and the Americans are already doing. In particular, they want us to provide them with support to cooperate with their Francophone neighbours. We do this by developing the teaching of French in a military environment. They also want us to accompany them in increasing their maritime capabilities. The ambassador of Nigeria has expressed to me his wish to maintain cooperation with France at the same level as we have with the G5 Sahel countries. Clearly, we must put these demands in perspective with our means. Our military and equipment are already very much in demand with Operation Barkhane, which covers a large territory like Europe, and unfortunately we cannot be everywhere. However, I think it is essential that we be more present in Nigeria, as the country's weight is considerable in the region. The development of our defence cooperation will have beneficial effects in all areas, including economic ones. We must not leave room for others. Our partners do not hesitate to come and compete in our traditional areas of influence; We must do the same in English-speaking Africa. And that's what we do with this agreement. At first glance, it does not revolutionize our military cooperation with Nigeria; It provides a protective legal framework for existing cooperation actions, which should be facilitated. This agreement can also promote our cooperation in the field of armaments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u125	Here's the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u126	French industrialists have already been asked by Nigeria for the purchase of maritime vessels, as well as for the acquisition of ammunition and maintenance of the naval fleet. It is now up to our industry to make fast and affordable offers to our partner. The agreement we are discussing today can therefore have some practical and immediate effects. But beyond that, it will give political impetus to go further, raising the level of our strategic partnership with Nigeria, which I believe is essential. I believe that Nigeria will remain in need of further cooperation, as it can hardly overcome all the challenges it faces alone. In order to make further progress in the military field, France has already identified a priority area: the exchange of intelligence is a central area of our cooperation with Nigeria. However, we do not yet have a bilateral agreement governing the exchange of classified data. France has already proposed to open negotiations with a view to obtaining this agreement. In order to extend the political momentum generated by our cooperation in the fight against terrorism, it would be very opportune for Nigeria to respond promptly to this offer. Madam Secretary of State, perhaps you could tell us if you have had any recent exchanges with your Nigerian counterpart in this direction. One thing seems certain to me: we must make every effort to strengthen our ties with Nigeria, a country with enormous weight and influence in the region. The President of the Republic travelled to Lagos last July to stress the importance of this partnership, which has already resulted in some progress in the economic, cultural and sporting fields. All this seems very positive to me and must be continued. In conclusion, as you will understand, I believe that we can fully ratify the Defence Cooperation Agreement with Nigeria that is before us. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has unanimously voted in favour of this ratification...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u127	We're gonna change!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u128	A little regret!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u129	...just like the Senate, almost a year ago. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, today to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u130	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u131	I thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Amélia Lakrafi, for her excellent report and for her excellent knowledge of the country we are talking about, which can sometimes be useful. As you pointed out, the rapporteur, Nigeria, is a large country with nearly 200 million inhabitants, 63 per cent of whom are under the age of 25. That is to say the extreme youth of this country and its immense demographic potential. By 2050, it could become the third most populous country in the world, ahead of the United States, with 400 million inhabitants. We all know that this demography and youth is also a challenge, which Nigeria shares with many African countries, starting with its neighbours in the G5 Sahel. Northern Nigeria is part of the Sahel and shares its difficulties. For example, in some northern states, youth unemployment can reach 80%! This is where Boko Haram is raging: more than 20,000 deaths, millions of displaced people and the abduction of the 276 young high school girls, in April 2014, to which you referred, Madam Secretary of State, and which we all remember. For the Sahel and West Africa to be well, Nigeria must be well. We have a clear interest in military stabilization, economic take-off and social development in this region. In fact, France strives to do so on a daily basis, thanks to its constant diplomatic, economic and military support in the G5 Sahel. Today, Nigeria is going through a difficult time and faces multiple political, democratic and security challenges, as well as intercommunal violence, an adverse economic situation and the great poverty of a very large part of its population. It is therefore very important for us to strengthen our military cooperation – defence cooperation, of which the Secretary of State has told us – and the exchange of information, like what the British and the Americans are doing. This is essential in the fight against terrorism and maritime piracy. In our view, however, such cooperation must go beyond defence alone. Moreover, one of the pillars of our military cooperation with Nigeria is the teaching of French in the armies. Nigeria and Ghana are the only two English-speaking countries in the economic community of West African states – ECOWAS – which is essentially a French-speaking space. We must defend the Francophonie in this region of the world. To this end, we have recently opened a new French Alliance in Lagos, which we can welcome. Nigeria, ladies and gentlemen, is a great emerging power, where France is still far too absent. We need to broaden our partnership beyond defence cooperation and boost it in the economic, social and cultural fields, for example through exchanges between young people. That is why I propose, of course, to pass this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u132	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1199.u133	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on cooperation in defence matters and the status of forces. The meeting is adjourned.
