ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u1	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u2	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u3	Yesterday, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, we learned in the press that there is a report from the General Inspectorate of Finance, which is, to say the least, explosive. Today, you are presenting the reform of the public service, which is aimed at nothing other than the demolition of the status of public servants and the abolition of thousands of posts. (Applause from the GDR Group. – Mr Ugo Bernalicis and Mrs Caroline Fiat also applaud. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Beyond the rudeness of the manoeuvre, we regret that public servants are still the target of your diatribes, even though, as everyone knows, public servants, whether they are nurses, police officers, or legal professionals, have worked millions of unpaid overtime hours. At a time when the rights defender warns us about the decline of public services, perceptible throughout the territory, you prefer to make the choice of the decline of the welfare state. Yet, at a time when your great debate is coming to an end, there must be a conclusion: the French are deeply committed to their public services and to their public service. Three-quarters of them supported the mobilization on March 19 and 60% had a good opinion of public service officials, despite repeated attempts to undermine their image and duties. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, and on several benches of the FI and SOC groups]] Against your budget line, our fellow citizens are crying out for the return of humanised community-based public services, which can recreate the social link that is so lacking. Against your dogmatism, our fellow citizens want to defend our social heritage. They reject a further setback by the public authorities, in all respects unacceptable. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] So, minister, despite the evidence and the expression of citizen, do you intend to continue your attempts to destroy the status of the public service?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u5	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Bruneel, you are concluding your speech with a question: are you going to continue? The answer is "yes". We will continue to modernize the public service for the good reason that we are committed to the status of the public service. We are committed to this, and we are confident that modernizing the status of the public service will meet the challenges it faces. We are convinced that flexibility is needed to enable administrations to be more effective. We are also convinced that there is a need to give new rights to public officials, new professional prospects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u6	I can't wait to see that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u7	They must be allowed to consider a second or third career because, you know as I do, it's over when the officers joined the public service to do the same job and the same job for thirty-five, forty-four or forty-two years. We must give them these perspectives...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u8	The prospect is 120,000 less posts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u9	...and we have to train them. We must work with public officials to modernise their status because, behind this modernization, there is the provision of services in the territory. You mentioned the issue of proximity: I am convinced that within a few weeks you will be happy and delighted to work with Mr.Gérald Darmanin on the issue of revisited geography in public finances,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u10	I don't think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... because we are convinced that there is a need to re-establish agents in rural and peri-urban areas in difficulty. We are convinced that when back-office services are brought together, it is possible to make economies of scale and to have more points of contact in the territory, in order to bring the public service closer to the users. Finally, honourable Member, I come back to the first point of your question. Improving status, better defending agents, also means ensuring fairness. We have asked and are asking in the Public Service Transformation Bill that all local and regional authorities ensure that the annual working hours of their agents are 1607 hours. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The state must also sweep in front of its door. That's the meaning of the IGF report you mentioned. We will have the opportunity to discuss it again to see what is happening, ministry by ministry, body by body, and to make fairness and effectiveness happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u12	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u13	My question is addressed to Mr Olivier Dussopt, Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts. This morning, you presented to the Council of Ministers the draft law on the transformation of the civil service. This text is long-awaited by public employers but also by agents and users of the public service. There is not a week in which I do not receive evidence of recruitment difficulties in the State, hospital or territorial public service. And how many examples of civil servants who have been blocked in their careers or who do not have the necessary training to adapt to the rapid development of the professions? Let us recall the purpose of the bill:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u14	120,000 job losses!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u15	... it is a matter of making the public service in good conditions for the agents and with efficiency for the users.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u16	And the rural territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u17	It was high time that efforts were being made to provide the public service with management tools commensurate with the excellence expected of its agents and public services. For this is also what it is about: to give professional perspective to agents and to empower public employers. Yes, there is a need to promote community-based social dialogue in the public service. Yes, mobility and professional development must be encouraged. Yes, it must be possible for an official to live an experience in private, for a time or forever. Yes, there is a need to facilitate the recruitment of contract personnel to certain positions at tension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u18	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u19	Simplification of administrative procedures cannot be a big word in the public service. I would like to commend the Government's commitment to this commitment of the President of the Republic, as well as the quality of the work undertaken over the past 18 months, with all the actors, in order to give more flexibility and agility to the civil service, while fully preserving the status of civil servants. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, as rapporteur, I will be particularly vigilant in drafting orders for certain measures. I am, as you know, the Secretary of State, particularly sensitive to the issues of management, professional equality and the fight against workers' poverty. Can you tell the national representative how the Government intends to address these issues through the future law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u20	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u21	Let's do it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u22	Madam Member of Parliament,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u23	Is that a very good question?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u24	... you are right to point out that this reform is expected, whether by the agents, who want to be given a second perspective in their careers, by the public employers – heads of the administrative service of the State, elected, directors of hospital establishments – who want to be trusted by giving them more autonomy, and also by the users, who want, through the modernization of the human resources of the public service, a more efficient, responsive and able to adapt to new needs and new developments. As I said to your predecessor, we will work to give more flexibility to the public service, but also to give more rights to officers. It will therefore be a matter of giving more flexibility but also more efficiency, refocusing social dialogue on the essentials by allowing deconcentration or decentralisation in order to allow the conclusion of majority agreements at a local level and thus to revalue local social democracy. This legislation will make it easier for public employers to recruit contract workers, not out of obligation but by opening up this option to them where they need it. The aim is to combine the skills required by the administration for the time required to complete a project or to diversify recruitment into managerial positions. This text will also give managers and service managers new tools for management and career evaluation, thus providing mobility and flexibility. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] But, as I pointed out, this desire for modernisation must be accompanied by new rights for agents: a right to training but also a right to accompaniment. I know that you are particularly attentive, honourable Member, to the training of the most fragile agents, those whose initial training is the least important, those who suffer from a disability, or those who are at risk of particular professional hardship or wear and tear. We will be careful to ensure that agents have the same rights as in the private sector with regard to the portability of training rights and the time-saving account, as regards the development of supplementary social protection or the reform of prevention and medicine. Finally, I would point out that the text pays particular attention to those whose profession is changing. The State must be exemplary in accompanying its agents who are experiencing these restructurings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u25	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u26	My question was to the Prime Minister. The Government is facing an unprecedented social crisis that the Prime Minister seems unable to find a decent outcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u28	We now look forward to the conclusions of the great national debate. However, we have repeatedly warned about the unfair tax machining that you place on households, including pensioners, and which was the catalyst for the mobilization of the Yellow Gilets. The Prime Minister is indeed the holder of a very sad record: a massive increase in the CSG and fuel taxes, in addition to the deindexation of retirement pensions and housing subsidies. Meanwhile, France's public debt is certainly on the course of 100 per cent of GDP at a time when I am speaking. I deplore the lack of humility of this government, which boasts 2018 figures, while in the euro area, France remains the worst student in terms of deficit, taxes and debt. In 2018, compulsory levies increased by 4.5 billion euros according to INSEE: we are the European champions of taxes and taxes with a mandatory levy rate of 45% of GDP compared to 39.6% in Germany. How could the Prime Minister justify it? As national cohesion breaks down on all sides, this morning your majority in the Finance Committee rejected at first reading the proposal for a law to restore the purchasing power of the French, tabled at the initiative of our President Christian Jacob.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u29	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u30	This text carried strong, courageous, emblematic measures that significantly improved the purchasing power of households: the reindexation of retirement pensions, family allowances and retroactive housing subsidies; the removal of the increase in the CSG for all pensioners; the 10% reduction in income tax for the first two instalments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u31	What about the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There is an urgent need to reduce the tax burden by drastically reducing public spending. In the absence of the Prime Minister, I ask you, Minister of Public Action and Accounts: will you have the will and the courage to follow our common sense proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u33	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u34	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I wonder, honourable Member, if one day you will be happy with the good news for your country, even if you are not in charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u35	You're the minister of bad news!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u36	[[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] Perhaps you could have pointed out – while of course saying that we must continue the efforts... – that, for the first time in more than twenty years, the deficit has fallen by one point in two years and that it is 2.5% today, thanks to the work of this majority. Perhaps you could have pointed out that, for the first time in ten years, taxes are falling in our country, you who have not voted for the removal of the housing tax, or the defiance of overtime. Perhaps you could also point out that, for the first time in twenty years, public expenditure is falling in volume,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u37	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u38	[[Same movements]] ... you who together with your group proposed this morning the equivalent of the Communist Party program, with 20 billion additional public spending! [[Riressur of many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I know, Mrs. Dalloz, that your party sold the UMP headquarters, but don't find yourself in Colonel Fabien's seat...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u39	The door is open, join us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u40	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You are proposing 20 billion extra expenses... while the courageous economic policy of the parliamentary majority must continue because the President of the Republic is putting the country on the right track. And you should applaud because France is better, and not regret that France is successful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u41	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u42	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u43	My question, Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, relates to the area of activity known as personal assistance, which is, of course, recruiting, but which is increasingly struggling to find candidates. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] First of all, I would like to thank these staff for the colossal and essential work they do every day for the most vulnerable people. Their work is sometimes poorly recognized, often physically and morally painful, and they remain poorly remunerated. Many jobs are not filled in this sector, in particular to help elderly or dependent people both in residential institutions for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – and at home. Social auxiliaries and caregivers are scarce, while needs are increasing due to the ageing of the population. In the next ten years, 300,000 posts will be filled. The 2018 Pôle Emploi survey on labour needs indicates that "care and accompaniment occupations are among the most sought after occupations, with home helpers, home helpers and caregivers". They are in fact in the top 10 of the professions most sought after by employers. As our population ages and demand grows, this work needs to be improved more than ever, not only humanly and financially, but also in terms of career development in certain paramedical professions, for those who wish to do so. These jobs remain unattractive and working conditions are such that both professionals and dependents are often in distress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u44	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u45	[[Mr. Guillaume Garot applauds]] How can we humanly look after someone when it takes 30 minutes to groom him, dress him up, give him care and do a little cleaning? In January 2018, a national movement had taken place in the EHPADs to denounce this situation. The Government had announced a gradual release of €360 million for these facilities and €100 million for home help. He also announced that a bill would be introduced in 2019. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Minister, in order to address the concerns of professionals, the sick and their families, can you outline the Government's future actions in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u46	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u47	Thank you, honourable Member, for bringing the light on these professionals, who are indeed playing a major role with our elders. Your question is very much in line with the Government's current thinking on old age and loss of autonomy. Responses will be given, in particular, with the submission tomorrow of Dominique Libault's report, which has been the subject of broad consultation. We have, in fact, taken emergency measures: 100 million euros were released between 2018 and 2019 for home help. Starting tomorrow, we will launch consultations to draft a bill that is expected to be completed by the end of 2019. As you have indicated, home care and support services are expected to be strengthened in the coming years, because home care is now the preferred form of aging for our seniors, who want to stay at home for as long as possible. The Government has already initiated work on the evolution of the financing model for human services. We will pursue them as part of the reform of the old age. We have several objectives: first, to ensure the financial and geographical accessibility of these services; enable users to benefit from greater fairness of treatment and a more readable offer, ensure better price transparency and better control of leftovers for families; Finally, to drastically improve the quality of life at work of staff, as well as the attractiveness of a sector which, as you pointed out, is a path of future, non-relocable, on which we rely a great deal. These imperatives are the prerequisite for the success of the reform that will be announced in the coming months. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Madam Member, I thank you again for your question concerning a major sector for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u48	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u49	My question is for the Minister of Economy and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u50	Where is Doc Gyneco?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u51	The ISF – a solidarity tax on wealth – was recently abolished in order to place a garrote on a tax haemorrhage, even though the blood had already sank a lot. However, one year after it was abolished, we must admit that we did not resurrect the dead, as no mass exodus of prodigal children has been observed. Worse still, I have learned from indiscretions from wealth management circles that, since the beginning of the yellow vest crisis, prosperous French people have learned about foreign investments. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I don't want to incentivize tax exile, I'm gonna make myself the devil's lawyer. In short, expatriates for tax reasons and yellow vests grunt for the same reason: they are lost in the jungle of suppressions, births and tax reforms typical of France, while they should be given guarantees of stability. For tax exiles to come back, you are thinking of using the coercive method. Indeed, the idea of introducing a nationality tax was considered in 2012 – by others before: MM. Holland and Dominique Strauss-Kahn thought about it, as well as the extremes of all edges. This tax is to charge French residents abroad the difference in taxation between their home country and what they would have had to pay in France if they lived there. In turn, the delegate general of La République en marche has just mentioned, in the context of the great national debate, the creation of a tax resident status for French people living in a country with which France has not concluded a tax agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u52	We don't understand anything, it's like in your tweets!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u53	Isn't that the antechamber of a nationality tax? However, during the review of the PLF for 2018, Mr.Darmanin had stated that such an idea was contrary to the philosophy of the majority. The tax must be linked to territoriality, not nationality. And to want to change tax havens into purgatories, the risk is great to make live a tax hell for those who are not tax exiles but middle French people living abroad, the same as those from here. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Minister, can you offer us a long-term vision of your tax policy, with a real spine?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u54	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u55	Mr President, you are right: taxation is the rule, depending on the place of residence. It is therefore independent of the nationality of the taxpayer, which is logical, since it is in the country of residence that one consumes and uses the roads, schools and hospitals financed with the public money of that country. Moreover, taxation based solely on the nationality criterion would make the scheme impracticable as our country has concluded 125 tax treaties. We also call for these conventions, on which reciprocal taxation between countries depends: they are necessary both for the application of the tax rules and for countering attempts to abuse the law in order to escape tax. If nationality tax is not a practical solution, we are pursuing the objective of having their taxes paid in France, or at least what they have to pay, to taxpayers, who are exiled only for tax purposes while maintaining a strong link with France. To that end, we have launched several actions. For the past 18 months, France has undertaken to combat tax fraud and optimisation forcefully and effectively, both at national and European level. Here are some examples: the transposition of the criteria of the European blacklist of non-cooperative states and territories, which we are the only European country to have carried out; the ratification of the BEPS Multilateral Convention – Erosion and Profit Shifting Base – and the translation of its anti-optimistic principles into our law and into the bilateral tax treaties that bind France and its partners; the rapid transposition of European directives to combat all tax optimisation schemes; the leading role played by France in the fight against tax optimisation of GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – in the negotiations to create a European tax, which would also have consequences for their shareholders; Finally, the minimum tax on the relocation of profits. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are our actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u56	Mr Benjamin Dirx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u57	Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the levy at source, which has been in place since January 2019, already appears to be a success.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u58	It's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u59	With this reform, French and French people benefit from many advantages this year, including the rapid adjustment of the tax to changes in their lives and the spread of its payment over twelve months. This simplification of administrative procedures has been possible – this is to be stressed – thanks to the total commitment of the officials of the tax administration. Although we need to give time for a full assessment of this simplification, particularly in view of the success of corporate tax payments, we can already anticipate the future and imagine new provisions that would follow this transformation. In this regard, you said, Minister, that you were in favour of the removal of the income tax return. In many situations, this tedious statement, which is filled by the French, may indeed appear as optional. Optionally, it could be so for those of them whose tax administration, through a reporting third party, has a precise knowledge of the income. Optionally, it could also be done through the collection at source and through the opportunity for all taxpayers to report their changes at any time, through their personalized online space or through an advisor. However, such abolition must be able to take into account our complex tax system: I am thinking here of the self-employed, the citizens with real estate income and, more generally, of all the situations in which the tax administration does not benefit from real-time data. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of the complexities mentioned, but also, and above all, of our strong desire for administrative simplification, how do you envisage, Minister, on the basis of the successful experience of the source levy, the possibility of removing the income tax return?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u60	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u61	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] First of all, I thank you for pointing out that the collection at source had been a successful project by the French administration. Allow me to associate myself with the thanks you have extended to all the public finance agents, but also to those of the USSRAF, who have shown that they know, by having the public service in the body, to carry out this kind of transformation that all the countries around us have managed to achieve. [[Applause on several of the LaREM Group]] There were only a few grinches to think that the public servants were not able to do so on January 1st of this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u62	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u63	You're probably targeting the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u64	[[Smile on the benches of the LAREM group – Exclaims on a few benches of the LR group]] Mr President, when I spoke of grinches, I did not mean to you: it should not be taken personally. Mr Dirx, you were right to say that our aim must be to simplify the lives of the French. Now, thanks to the source levy, yes, 2019 will probably be the last year for which French taxpayers will have to file a tax return. We will indeed be able to make a declaration throughout the year, and even every day if we wish to do so, thanks to the work carried out on the occasion of this same levy. Since 1 January, two million French tax households have already changed their tax rates upwards or downwards: tax adapts to life. Our country has roughly 38 million tax homes. About 15 million of them continue to file a paper declaration: this represents – I say to the minister of state, minister of the ecological and solidarity transition – 1000 tons of paper that we could save a little by explaining to the French that indeed, if their fiscal life does not change – as is the case each year of more than 5 million households – they will no longer have to file a tax return from next year. If their tax life changes, it will obviously have to be declared in order for the tax to adapt to this change. The issue of self-employed persons is a particular one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u65	Gas plant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u66	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will have the opportunity in the coming days, particularly during the income tax campaign, to say how we can also adapt to their particular lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u67	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u68	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, we are in 2019: yet 1% of the richest French people concentrate 30% of their wealth, and thirty-eight billionaires own as much as 40% of the poorest French people. Inequality is growing inexorably, in almost general indifference. [["That's right! » on the benches of the FI group]] The observation is without appeal: impoverishment of workers, abandonment of care, malnourishment, malnutrition, unequal access to water – while it is a common good whose first cubic metres necessary for a dignified life should be free – but also difficulties in ensuring daily hygiene. A recent study by the FIFG, commissioned by the association Dons solidaires and conducted among ten million people in financial difficulty, reveals that more than three million French people are forced to save on hygiene. Two million French people say they are uncomfortable because of their body hygiene and appearance, and many of them have already given up buying shampoo or soap. Nearly three million parents report that they cannot change their children's diaper regularly, and more than one in three women do not change enough hygienic protection or resort to makeshift protection. Minister, when we talk about exclusion, we often forget about the stigma attached to the body. However, not being able to wash themselves, not being able to change their children, or not having a job interview because we are ill in their bodies, are all humiliations experienced by a growing number of our fellow citizens. To turn away the gaze of those who sink into misery is humanly unbearable, not to mention the multiple consequences of this evolution in terms of public health. It is therefore time to act. Our country, exsangued at the end of the war, was nevertheless able to create, with concern for the general interest, social security. Today, while he has never been so rich, who can believe that poverty is a fatality on which action and political will have no control?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u69	Good question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u70	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the FI Group, as well as Mrs Faucillon and Mr Chassaigne, rise and applaud]] Madam Minister, my question is: What concrete steps are you going to take to eradicate this misery, and in what time frame?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u71	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u72	Madam Member, you are referring to a study by the FIFG which highlights the fact that two to three million French people are uncomfortable with their body hygiene. This is an important subject to address, and I thank you for allowing us to deal with it in this House. It is a subject which is still too little known, on which we have to work and on which we are, of course, currently working. There are several things I can tell you about. Indeed, it is not stipulated in the strategy to prevent and combat poverty that we are working on access to hygiene kits for the most vulnerable people. That being said, we are working on this in various ways, including through the opening of health centres, not through measures to go to and to prevent access to care, one of which is obviously the health of the most vulnerable. We are working with associations that already offer such hygiene kits, but we need to go further in terms of building public action and financing. In particular, I have asked the departments of the Directorate-General for Social Cohesion of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health to work on this subject in order to be able to pay additional subsidies allowing associations to buy and distribute such kits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u73	To buy them is the whole question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u74	Some already do. I know that for making marauds with the Restos du coeur and with the Red Cross: these kits are already distributed. Some local missions also distribute them to the young people concerned. However, we must go further. There were initial responses: I am thinking of the reduction in 2015 from 20% to 5.5% of the VAT rate applicable to basic hygiene products, including soap, hygiene products and hygiene products for women. All this work improves the situation: the Government has also committed itself, at the time of the review of the finance bill, to find the financing solutions, including the one I have just indicated to you, so that grants can be allocated. There is a strong mobilization on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on some benches of the MODEM group]] Hygiene insecurity must no longer be a taboo: we must find the right solutions. I'll be happy to work with you, deputy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u75	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u76	[[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] Madam Minister of Armed Forces, last Saturday, the Syrian democratic forces announced the release of Al-Baghuz, thus completely eliminating from the map the self-proclaimed caliphate in June 2014 in Mosul by the terrorist group Daesh. This territorial military victory, supported by the international coalition, is a moment for France all the more important because our country is one of those who have been hardest hit by terrorism. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud]] From the attacks on Charlie Hebdo to the Nice bombing, from Bataclan to Trebes, the Daesh attacks remain forever an open wound in our hearts. To the memory of all the victims, and to our soldiers engaged in this fight in external operations as well as on our soil, let us pay tribute, ladies and gentlemen. As early as 2017, the resumption of Raqqa and Mosul had led to the repulsation of Daesh on the shores of the Euphrates River, in the Al-Baghuz region. Today, the resumption of this eastern Syrian city, bordering Iraq, opens a new chapter in our fight against terrorism. Indeed, the territorial annihilation of Daesh does not mean that its fighters or its ideology are terrorized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u77	Bravo, how insightful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u78	These fighters, we always know, are present in Syria, especially in the Idlib region, and they are being reorganized in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. The threat is still present, here and elsewhere, all over the world. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges also applauds]] My question therefore concerns France's military engagement in the Levant and Syria. Four years after Operation Chambal began, what are the short- and medium-term prospects for the engagement of our armed forces, particularly in the fight against terrorism, in this region?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u79	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u80	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and SOC groups, as well as on a few benches of the GDR and LR groups]] We have indeed reached a decisive stage, Mr President, since in 2015 the territorial caliphate extended to a territory as large as Britain. Today it is done: Daesh no longer controls any territory in the Levant. We can rejoice and pay tribute, as you have just done, to the soldiers, sailors and airmen of Shamal, but also to the international coalition, the Syrian democratic forces and the Iraqi security forces, who, for five years, fought to achieve this result. While this success must be celebrated, the situation remains precarious, for Daesh has long been prepared for hiding and for the continuation of his fight. As I do every time in front of our military and coalition partners, I stress that we must neither lower our guard nor relax our efforts. That is why we will remain committed to Daesh, first within the framework of the international coalition, while of course continuing to adapt our arrangements whenever necessary. We will also remain committed to the Iraqi security forces, to which we are conducting training and stabilization activities in the liberated territories, so that they can ultimately re-approve the security of their own country. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group, as well as on a few benches of the MODEM and SOC groups]] And since there can be no military victory without a political solution, France will continue to work towards an inclusive political solution, under the aegis of the United Nations, alongside its special envoy. We must indeed re-create the conditions for the return to the rule of law, security and development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u81	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u82	My question was to the Prime Minister. Despite a small decline that we can only welcome, the unemployment rate remains particularly high in our country, with 3.4 million people in single category A, and more than 6.2 million in all categories. However, we hear every day, in all our territories, companies that seek to recruit, almost in all fields of activity, and which do not find candidates. In view of this, the effectiveness and even the responsibility of Pôle emploi question. On behalf of the Social Affairs Committee, in early 2019 I conducted a flash mission on Pôle Emploi, ten years after its creation. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the employees and the management of this establishment, who are doing their best with the means at their disposal. These employees, engaged in the service of job seekers, feel that their working conditions have deteriorated considerably and, consequently, the service provided to users has deteriorated considerably. In particular, I found that two thirds of jobseekers did not have an interview with their reference counsellor four months after their registration. How is this possible, when companies are looking to hire? How can unemployment, under these conditions, be dealt with decisively, while the Government continues to entrust new tasks to Pôle Emploi, such as the taking over of resigned employees and self-employed workers, the reinforced support of the beneficiaries of the RSA – income from active solidarity – and the strengthening of the control of the beneficiaries? All of this, I repeat, is accompanied by a steady decline in the resources allocated, with nearly 2,000 fewer agents in the last two years and a decrease in the State's allocations. As a result, the volume of advisors' portfolios is exploding. We are no longer surprised by the sense of abandonment and ras-le-bol, both among agents and among users, job seekers or businesses. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Brigitte Bourguignon also applauds]] Prime Minister, how do you intend to improve the employment situation? What more do you intend to do to revive the return to employment? To what extent would you be prepared to support local initiatives to achieve this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u83	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u84	First of all, Mr Viry, I thank you for welcoming the beginning of a fall in unemployment, although much remains to be done. The unemployment rate fell from 9.7% to 8.8% in less than two years. This is still far too much, and action in this area remains a major priority for our country, but it is encouraging. We thus went under the psychological barrier of 9%, which some referred to as structural unemployment and which, for my part, I called the rate of impotence. So we are progressing, but we need to step up our actions. These are four orders. The first action is that which targets skills, skills and skills. In our country, one in two companies do not find the skills they need in the labour market, because they do not exist. It is therefore necessary to co-build them: this is the whole meaning of the reform of apprenticeship and vocational training, the law "future pro" and the plan of investment in skills. In five years, 1 million young jobseekers will be trained, some of whom have already begun to be trained. Secondly, some of our fellow citizens, as you have pointed out, need a springboard for employment. To this end, Capemploi has moved closer to Pôleemploi: this is the whole issue of integration by the economic world, within the adapted enterprises. As draftsman of the finance bill, you are aware of our work in this area, which is an important priority. Thirdly, the rules of unemployment insurance, which do not always go in the direction of employment. The role of Pôle Emploi is essential. We are currently negotiating with the social partners the tripartite agreement that will apply to this institution. We agree on the idea of earlier and more intensive support because, the sooner a job seeker is accompanied, the easier it is to find a job. Without this, a loss of confidence is created over time, as well as a loss of credibility on the CV. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We also want to take more offensive action on supporting the beneficiaries of the RSA, in connection with the departments, and on long-term job seekers. Pôle emploi now has the means to carry out these actions. The numerous digitalized administrative services, in particular, allow us to invest in this progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u85	Mr Mustapha Laabid has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u86	A few months ago, in Rennes, I received two very courageous mothers, whose daughters, aged thirteen and fourteen, were victims of pimps. I have listened to the despair and anger of these inconsolable mothers in the face of a situation whose glaucous and sordid details I will keep here. The situation which motivates the call for the help of these two mothers is not a unique case: it is shared by thousands of families in France, where there are now 5,000 to 8,000 minors who are victims of pimps, and the phenomenon is growing. I have taken the initiative to audition children's judges, prosecutors, police officers, the juvenile squad, child welfare professionals and associations such as COFRADE, the French Council of Associations for the Rights of the Child, or ACPE – Acting against child prostitution – committed against the prostitution of minors. They're all pulling the alarm bell. Often, unconsciously – to protect oneself from horror, perhaps – our first reflex is to imagine that they are migrants from Africa or Eastern Europe. So we feel a little less concerned. However, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon also affects children born in France, schooled in France, and all social categories. [[Applause on all benches]] Whether they are foreign minors or French minors, caught in a network or not, we must act now and hit hard! Today, before a judge, a pimp is less likely than a drug dealer. In addition, the Internet facilitates the prostitution of minors: online ads, Airbnb, Uber, Nickel account, these are the new tools of the mafia networks that invest this very lucrative market. [[Same movements]] This unprecedented model of exploitation of minors requires adaptations. Minister, what arsenal is in place to stem the phenomenon?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u87	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u88	The situation you are describing, Mr. Member, is absolutely intolerable; You're right to point that out. The Ministry of Justice was particularly active in combating prostitution of minors. As you said, we are confronted with real transnational networks that are part of organised crime. The fight against trafficking in human beings, this modern slavery, is therefore a priority for me. After very firm circulars addressed to the public prosecutor's offices in 2015 and 2016, the services of the Chancery are now very mobilized. They work closely with their European partners and counterparts. For example, last Thursday, a meeting with our Romanian counterparts on this issue was held in the Chancery department. In addition, inter-ministerial work is also being carried out in the context of the preparation of national plans to combat trafficking in human beings, coordinated by the inter-ministerial mission for the protection of women from violence and the fight against trafficking in human beings. A new plan is being finalized. You are right to point out that the prostitution of minors is developing very widely today because of social networks and that it affects children from different backgrounds. Awareness is needed; By your action, you contribute a great deal, which I thank you for. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and SOC groups]] Our national legal arsenal is now solid and I am not sure that it is necessary to amend our texts. At European level, on the other hand, there is a need to improve the access of judges and investigators to electronic evidence in order to better identify those who create – often abroad – websites that promote this type of prostitution of minors as well as the individuals who connect to these sites. This work is under way; I hope that with you, ladies and gentlemen, we can ensure that the necessary texts are adopted quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u89	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u90	It is in the Toulois that was born, a little over a century ago, Georges Guérin, founder of the JOC, the Young Christian Worker. Do you know the slogan of this movement? "The life of a young worker is worth more than all the gold in the world. We are in line with the previous question when we talk about the fact that, for a few cents for a t-shirt, for a few euros for a jeans, children, at the end of the world, are being enslaved. The Catholic Committee against Hunger and Development issued a report forty-eight hours ago, which gives us, among many other information, these two figures: nearly 27 million hectares of land from which rural communities are deprived by the financialization of the land and the agri-food industry; 25 million earth workers exposed under dishonest conditions to pesticides sometimes produced in our own country. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several GDR benches. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] Two years ago to the day, the previous majority adopted, after four years of struggle with trade unions, non-governmental organizations and academics, a law that is now a landmark and a school in the world. Many universities, trade unions, parliaments and around ten countries are studying it and are considering adopting an equivalent law. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] My question to the Government will be very specific, and I would like to see words and good feelings not being paid to make people believe that we share our values. We came out of the examination of the PACTE law: it was a question of reforming capitalism there; I admit that my political group was not really convinced. But we have an opportunity for practical work. Can you give us a list of companies that have been involved in the duty of vigilance for a hundred days now, the law applying on January 1, 2019? Can you give us the name of the ten giants of the bank, the food and clothing industry who did not deign to implement what we adopted in this House exactly two years ago? Can you tell us what measures the State is taking to ensure the quality of the vigilance plans? Can you give us more details on the international plea you are going to make for us, together with Germany and some ten other European countries, to adopt a directive and share the message at the United Nations level?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u91	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u92	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for asking exactly the right questions. Thank you, too, for all the work you have done during the previous legislature on the law you have cited, which is indeed a source of admiration for many countries. The duty of vigilance, we must use it for what it is: a real lever for finally placing the human, but also the environment, at the heart of corporate governance throughout the value chain. He can avoid tragedies like the Rana Plaza – unfortunately there are many others. Corporate social responsibility must not, cannot be a soul supplement: it must really be at the heart of business strategy. Some are ready: they wanted to go further. As advocated in the Senard-Notat report, the PACTE law you cited, defended by Bruno Le Maire and Agnès Pannier-Runacher, makes it mandatory to take social and environmental issues into consideration. Under this law, companies can now also develop a raison d'être. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] The company cannot be reduced to profit: it has a social and environmental dimension. Companies can and must go further, which some already do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u93	Apply the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u94	We must continue to work on the necessary transformation of the capitalist system. I know, honourable Member, that you will continue to work with us and to be as vigilant as you, so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u95	We have to apply the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u96	Your questions are very specific. I don't have on me the list you're asking...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u97	Oh, too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u98	And memory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u99	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... but I know – we have already exchanged on this – that we will see each other and continue to work together on it. I also hear what the students tell us: they ask for meaning; We are asking companies to have an impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u100	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u101	I would like to associate our colleagues Carole Bureau-Bonnard and Jean-François Portarrieu with this question. The Government had recently increased the number of departments that could benefit from the free employment scheme. The Vaucluse and the districts of Avignon thank you for this. Let us recall the history of this ambition of "france employees" or, from now on, "france jobs". It was an eminent mayor of Sarcelles who had this idea. It comes from the observation of the limits of the free zones: in our neighborhoods, there are many buildings with a lot of mailboxes of corporate headquarters, to the point of reminding Andorra or Monaco, effectively creating tax havens at the very heart of poverty. However, this scheme was intended as an alternative, so that State aid, in the form of tax advantages, would not benefit the area itself but the job seeker, who would bring with him, at the time of hiring, aid of EUR 15000 over three years for an indefinite contract – CDI. The fact that, I repeat, the number of departments benefiting from the scheme has increased raises the question of free zones. Would it not be time, when an assessment is under way, to disconnect those free zones which cost the State a great deal of money if all the taxes that it does not collect, and which create very few jobs, were to be paid? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As we have seen, the free employment scheme established by the previous government, Minister Le Maire, did not work because it was in competition with other schemes. I therefore wonder whether we should not give priority to free jobs and put an end to free zones, in order to better combat mass unemployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u102	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u103	It is half of the people who live in priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – QPV – who, from 1 April 2019, will be eligible for free jobs. As you recalled, the free jobs were created during the previous quinquennium and the scheme did not work since there were 500 free jobs in all and for all in France. We have analysed the reasons for this. But let us first remember what a frank job is: that is to say no to discrimination, which actually exists in France. Why, indeed, do we live in a QPV? Because you don't live, a priori, at the right address, sometimes you don't have the right name or the right head. In these circumstances, there is a double chance of access to the same job at the same level of qualification and experience. A frank job, that is also to say no to house arrest. This allowed the device to operate outside the QPV, as there is no reason to hire only in this type of neighbourhood. Together with my colleagues, Annick Girardin and Julien Denormandie, under the Prime Minister's authority, we decided to expand the experiment. A first experiment was conducted from April to the end of 2018, during which time, out of 6,000 applications, 4500 were accepted – an order of magnitude that we were considering. It is interesting to note that 82% were hired in CDI immediately; In other words, the bet of trust has been held. We heard the other day in Cachan when we launched the extension of the scheme, the employers said: "Well, since we received assistance, we immediately dared to propose a CDI. More than half of those involved are long-term job seekers. We have thus decided to extend the scheme to all the regions of Hauts-de-France, Île-de-France, the departments of Ardennes, Bouches-du-Rhône, Haute-Garonne, Maine-et-Loire, Vaucluse and all the overseas departments and regions where I recall that 25% of the population lives in a QPV. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So we're going to look for these hidden talents, these lives that are prevented to give them access to employment. We have to give back hope. We need everyone on the ground to promote this beautiful project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u104	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u105	Minister of Solidarity and Health, in June 2017, a "new world" was to be born. Since then, the divide between the central government and the province, ruralness, has been steadily widening. Between the limitation of speed to 80 kilometres per hour on the secondary network, and the suppression of cash flows, the rise in the price of fuel, the exclusion of intermediate bodies and local elected officials, the facts are there. And this continues with the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system, in which our local hospitals will lose their skills and their role of proximity. During the debate, you stressed that you were "committed to fully involving parliamentarians, and [that] this commitment will be fulfilled," and also committed to "strengthening the place of elected officials prior to decisions." On the ground, however, the matter is not there, Madam Minister, and the local elected representatives are ignored. This is the case in the Vaucluse, in my constituency, with the hospital of Roquefraîche, in Lauris. On two occasions, the mayor of this commune has publicly informed you of his concern about the future of this hospital. Your answer was very clear: "I am working more on rehabilitation than on closure. » [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] What was not our surprise to learn, by chance, last January, that this centre would be closed within three years! Where's the consultation, Minister? The exasperation is at its peak among the population and the hospital staff are worried or even traumatized. In a final appeal last Saturday, the mayor, André Rousset, seventy years old, who had nevertheless given his sponsorship to candidate Macron a year and a half ago, resigned from his commune to reach, on foot, your ministry, a distance of 760 kilometers. All to be heard, to protest the announced closure of this hospital. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We therefore note, on the one hand, that you show your desire for consultation and, on the other, that you oppose an end to not receiving elected representatives. I therefore have the opportunity to solemnly ask you what you intend to do for the hospital of Roquefraîche, on which depends a whole population pool and, more broadly, what assurances of consultation you intend to bring to the local elected representatives in your reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u106	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u107	I was alerted last week by Mr. André Rousset about his approach and I understand of course the distress that can cause a closure project like that of the hospital in Roquefraîche. To respond to this type of situation is the whole meaning of the law that was discussed last week: to anticipate the renewal of local hospitals, an ambitious renewal. Within a graduated territorial organization, community hospitals will provide patients with the right care at the right time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u108	You shut them all up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u109	Our objective is to guarantee the population a range of care sufficient to avoid remoteness, with the exception of medically more complex situations which must be organised along a path. More specifically, with regard to the facility you are referring to, the situation of the hospital in Lauris is unique, in particular due to the age of the premises and its geographical environment. I must point out, the Lauris site is located in the hazard zone: an area where forest fires are very strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u110	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u111	In accordance with the regional health project of Provence-Alpes-Côte-d'Azur, adopted in September 2018, it is planned to relocate the follow-up and rehabilitation care to the site of Lauris-Cavaillon. In fact, it has both a specialized technical platform and the medical resources needed to improve the health path of the population, which resides mainly in the Cavaillon living area. [[Mr. Florian Bachelier applauds]] Be assured that I will be particularly attentive to the future of the Lauris site. The reflection must be continued, involving all the parties concerned, in particular the departmental council of Vaucluse, which, according to my information, should become the owner of the site at the end of the health and medical-social activities. Finally, I asked the Mayor of Lauris to contact my office so that all proposals could be studied with him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u112	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u113	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud at length]] Just 20 years ago, here, in this hemicycle, the beating heart of the Republic, the heart of a great Republican suddenly stopped beating. It was that of a well-known, feared, respected Member of Parliament. It was that of an outstanding mayor, so visionary. It was Michel Crépeau's. Mr. Minister of State, Minister for the Energy and Solidarity Transition, you now occupy the ministry for which he was responsible in 1981, because Michel Crépeau was of course a radical, petri of humanism, but at the same time he was an avant-garde environmentalist. Michel Crépeau, it was the yellow jersey of the two-wheeler, with the creation in La Rochelle of self-service bicycles, thirty years before the Vélib '. Michel Crépeau was the pioneer of pedestrians, with the creation in La Rochelle of the first pedestrian sector in France. Michel Crépeau, it was also the pedagogy of ecology, with the invention in La Rochelle of the day without cars, day now becoming world-wide. "One governs a people only the feet on the ground, and the heart in the stars! He proclaimed in this rostrum. The earth, the heart and the stars. The land, which he never stopped wanting to protect. This generous heart, which stopped beating here, on a dark day of March 1999. This star, its star, which has never ceased to shine in the hearts of so many people. [[Applause on all benches]] The earth, the heart, the stars was Michel Crépeau, and I wanted to greet him here and now with respect, admiration, emotion and affection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u114	Thank you, honourable Member, for this beautiful tribute to a great parliamentarian and a great servant of the Republic. The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u115	Member, you are giving me the opportunity to pay tribute to Michel Crépeau on behalf of the Government. I have indeed the emotional memory of that day when, having asked a question of topicality, he collapsed on his seat, struck by a heart attack. I was myself a collaborator of the Radical-Citizen-Green group he chaired. I have a particularly moved memory of these moments. Alain Tourret, his bench neighbour, also kept a very strong memory of this moment in the image of a man who, to the end, fought in this National Assembly for the humanistic values that you recalled. Michel Crépeau was a character of many facets, of which one must not keep a sad memory, because he was also a man full of humour and even of gouille, appreciated both in La Rochelle and in the National Assembly, and in general in the public debate. I want to remember the Member of Parliament, the Member of Parliament who loved Parliament. Undoubtedly, he loved the idea of representing the French people. He loved universal suffrage, debate and even oratory art. As a lawyer, he pleaded in the National Assembly, as he had done in court. He also loved legislative work. I also want to remember the minister. Appointed to the Government in 1981, you reminded him, by François Mitterrand, that he sat there for five years, first as Minister of the Environment, which is not very well known, and he ended up exercising a few months as guardian of the seals, Minister of Justice – which was for him a consecration – taking over Robert Badinter. But of course, one cannot understand Michel Crépeau without talking about Michel Crépeau mayor of La Rochelle. I remember that on the day of his funeral, it was felt that all the inhabitants of La Rochelle had gone down the streets to greet him one last time. We understand that when we know everything that he had done for this city – you recalled it – including in terms of ecology. [[Applause]] One last word, because I miss time, and we could talk about him for a long time. He also had Michel Crépeau the humanist. The values he has defended, the fighting he has waged, are more relevant than ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u116	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u117	My question is for the Minister of Economy and Finance, and concerns one of the many closures of industrial sites that occur in our territories. One of the ten largest printing companies in our country, Loire Offset Titoulet, located in Saint-Étienne, in my constituency, has closed its doors permanently. In the absence of a successor, his judicial liquidation handed down last Wednesday by the commercial court of Saint-Étienne leaves 133 employees on the tile. The latter have occupied their factory day and night for several weeks and rightly denounce, beyond the human tragedy that is being played out, a real industrial waste. For many years, the company has been experiencing significant difficulties. A number of questionable strategic choices have been made by managers without employees being involved in the major decisions which, however, affected them very directly. We're far from codetermination! In recent months, trade union organisations have alerted the state authorities to obtain guarantees on the actual search for potential buyers by the company's managers. As such, the various minutes of meetings and other minutes which I have been able to consult may legitimately give rise to doubts as to the sincerity of the approach taken by the leaders of Loire Offset Titoulet. While a reduction in staff has been made in recent years, resulting in more than forty job cuts, the company has collected nearly €1.4 million from the employment competitiveness tax credit. Today, the 133 laid-off employees seem condemned to share crumbs as part of the job security plan. That's not acceptable. I was able to obtain from the Prefect of the Loire the commitment that a support unit for the reclassification will be created very quickly, but the employees also wish to be able to negotiate a maximum of compensation for the disappearance of jobs, including the financing of supra-legal bonuses and means of training. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Muriel Ressiguier also applauds]] Minister, my question is simple: how do you intend to satisfy these 133 employees so that we can get out of this industrial and human waste?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u118	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u119	Mr President, you are asking me about the closure of Loire Offset Titoulet. You are right: this is a tragic closure. I repeat here, however, that there are more creations and extensions in France than site closures. It seems to me important to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u120	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u121	In a difficult market context, Loire Offset Titoulet was placed in judicial reform in 2016. It was the subject of an observation period which, at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, was extended to 18 months, because we wanted to try to find a buyer. In extremis, because we had failed to do so, we went back to a continuation plan, which led to a further failure at the end of 2018. The judicial liquidation was pronounced in January with continuity of activity, which left another two months to try to find a final solution. That was not possible. Judicial liquidation was handed down last week. This is a painful situation for the 130 employees. We are well aware of that. That is why we have created, that we are creating a support cell for professional security, which will be operational in the coming days. As a result, a placement operator will be able to intervene with employees to provide psychological and administrative support in order to assist them in their professional project. This device is not automatic, but it seemed important to us to introduce it in the circumstances you refer to. It provides for the support of employees for 12 to 15 months, to whom it will be able to benefit, through the contract of professional security, from an allowance equal to 75% of their former gross salary, an accompaniment reinforced by Pôle emploi and training, as you ask. It will also be possible to apply for a degressive temporary allowance to encourage re-employment when they are paid at a lower wage than the wage paid to employees. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You understand this: our goal is to support as many employees as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u122	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u123	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u124	[[The meeting was suspended at 16.10 and resumed at 16.20 with Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u125	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u126	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the bill by Mr Gilles Le Gendre and several of his colleagues on the right to terminate health-related supplementary contracts free of charge (No. 1660, 1772).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u127	Mr Dominique Da Silva, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u128	I have the honour to present to you the proposal for a law, tabled by the Republic on the right to terminate health supplementary contracts free of charge. The subject of this text should first be recalled. The French model of social protection is based on compulsory public health insurance, which covers 77% of French medical expenses. In order to significantly supplement their guarantees, insured persons may take out private supplementary insurance, which remains optional, except for employees. With the complementary universal health insurance – CMU-C – and the aid for the payment of a supplementary health care – ACS –, soon extended, this is the second stage of our social protection, covering today 95% of the insured, that is almost all of the French population. Three categories of players are evolving in this supplementary health insurance market, with a volume of 36 billion euros: mutuals, pension institutions and insurance companies. The contracts entered into are either collective, concluded by an employer for its employees, or individual, concluded directly by an individual. Regardless of the category of organizations, since 2011, collective contracts have, on average, been in deficit, while individual contracts have always yielded surpluses. The latter mainly concern pensioners, civil servants, self-employed persons and students. In order to enjoy a favourable tax and social status, supplementary health contracts must provide for the reimbursement of a basket of care defined by the public authority. With "100% health," our majority can be proud to have significantly improved this basket of optical, audioprosthetic and orthodontic care. Complementary organizations fund 13.5% of care consumption, which is significant for optics and dental care. One cannot speak of "contracts at a discount": all contracts on the French market meet the standards set by successive majorities. It should be recalled that the major risks of life are covered entirely by compulsory health insurance. Health is not a market like any other, who doubts it? This is not a competition for health benefits, but the level of reimbursement of expenses. Consolidating complementary health and health is a rhetorical argument that does not serve the clarity of our debate. Today, the additional burden is increasingly on households, which are not necessarily covered by their employers and must take out a guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u129	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u130	Since the Act of 28 January 2005 to strengthen consumer confidence and protection, known as the Chatel Act, the subscriber of a health supplement has usually had a period of two or three weeks at the end of the year to terminate his contract, before it is tacitly renewed. Examples from my hearings show that some organizations use unfair methods to oppose this termination. The possibility of termination during the year of supplementary health contracts corresponds to a real expectation of our citizens. According to a survey conducted by the FIFG, 94% of respondents expressed support for the principle upheld by this bill; 75% of them find the terms of termination binding, and more than half do not know them. This bill will allow the policyholder of a supplementary health insurance to benefit from a possibility to terminate his contract, free of charge and at any time, after one year of subscription. The first three articles extend to health supplements the scheme introduced by the law of 17 March 2014 on consumption, known as the Hamon law. In this regard, the impact study of the time already incorporated, and without reservation, complementary health. In committee, we have improved the scheme on three important points: by giving the new supplementary body a mandate to terminate the existing guarantees of the insured; improving the transparency of guarantees by communicating the rate of return of contracts; entrusting the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the ACPR – with the assessment of compliance with the readability commitments made by the representatives of the complementary health bodies. Article 4 lays down the entry into force of the operative part on 1 December 2020. The aim of extending the deadline is to enable stakeholders to make progress on the deployment of real-time consultation of insured persons' rights. It is indeed an evolution and not a revolution! Will there be an increase in terminations, resulting in significant costs? No! For already today, complementary bodies are required to manage terminations, during the year, in the event of a change of personal situation. The fears of market destabilization, raised by some actors in a dramatic and sometimes caricatural way, remain unfounded. I recall that before the passing of the Hamon bill in 2014, the same representatives of insurers and mutuals had predicted that this possibility of termination would lead to the destabilization of the auto and home insurance market: five years later, it is not! Similarly, significant normative advances in the borrower insurance market have helped to lower tariffs, up to 30%, for the same guarantees. Is there a risk of further segmentation of the market, between policyholders who would be "good" risks, and others, by presenting "bad" risks? Of course not! Today, the individual contracts of seniors are, whatever they say, profitable. Improving information and competition is therefore intended to give individuals bargaining power, so that they do not serve as compensation for broken prices in the collective hedging market. Are we going to see the advertising and marketing costs explode? Clearly, no! Today, management and acquisition costs account for 20% of the contributions, which is probably too much. In all cases, mutuals and insurers did not wait for this bill to cover boats, stadiums and sports jerseys with advertising spaces. Competition exists: it is up to us to make sure that it contributes more to the reimbursement of health care expenses. Moreover, the text obliges opportunistic behaviour: compliance with the commitments of the "100% health" plan, especially before taking over new optical or auditory equipment, will be monitored. Fair competition between stakeholders in the health supplement market also requires greater legibility and comparability of the proposed guarantees. According to a survey by the FIFG for UFC-Que choix, 37% of French people find their health guarantees difficult to understand and 48% do not know, in advance, the amount of reimbursement they will receive for important care. This lack of readability questions the insured, who consider the service rendered indispensable, but forced and opaque. On 14 February 2019, the National Union of Supplementary Health Insurance Bodies – UNOCAM – and its constituent federations signed, in the presence of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, a commitment to improve the readability of supplementary health guarantees. With an amendment voted in committee, the CPRA will verify compliance with these commitments. The purpose of this bill is, first and foremost, to improve the supply of complementary health care, leaving insured persons free to change bodies when they consider that the proposed guarantees and the service provided do not meet their expectations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It aims to develop a more competitive and rebalanced market, with an easier right of termination, fair competition based on greater legibility of the guarantees and the services offered, and a reduction in management costs, through the modernisation of the management of the paying third party thanks to the assistance of all the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u131	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u132	The bill that is being considered today has a laudable purpose: to facilitate the actions of the public and to act for their purchasing power. Once adopted, this text will provide policyholders with the opportunity to terminate their health supplement contract at no cost and at any time, at the end of the first year of subscription. This is a pragmatic and concrete provision, which is part of the continuity of the option offered to insured persons under the Consumer Law of 2014, known as the Hamon Law, to terminate their car or borrower insurance contract, on the expiry of a period of one year from the first subscription. The measures in the proposed legislation will be aimed at individuals for individual contracts and companies for collective contracts, and will come into force no later than December 2020. This deadline is important, since it should enable consultation with stakeholders to be organised and, above all, to prepare the implementation of the text with complementary bodies and health professionals, so that this measure can be translated into real simplification for insured persons. It is indeed important that professionals practising the paying third party have access to the rights of insured persons in real time, since the guarantees will no longer cover the entire calendar year. I would like to return for a moment to the context of this bill, because we cannot ignore the events that preceded the decision to table this bill. In the face of what he himself described as a just anger of the French people and after announcing a set of measures to support purchasing power, the President of the Republic decided to bring together mutuals, insurers and pension institutions at the end of December. As with banks and large companies, they were asked to take part in the mobilization for economic and social emergency. Expenditure on supplementary health care is one of the so-called expenditure constraints, which households cannot escape. The complementary organisations responded to this call and committed themselves to taking measures for the purchasing power of the insured: for example, the price increase planned in 2019 for entry-level contracts, called "moderator tickets", will be neutralized, and the complementary organisations will engage in joint work to reduce management costs, which represent about 20% of the contributions collected. In addition, one of the proposals mentioned by the President of the Republic, which is now reflected in this bill, was to facilitate the conditions for termination, thus allowing more freedom for households and reducing the prices of supplementarys, by increasing competition. I have heard the criticisms which have been made in committee and which will not fail to appear in the House when the amendments are discussed. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to enlighten the debate and to respond to some of the accepted ideas that are circulating on this text. First of all, this measure will not increase the cost of premiums. The increase in competition will, on the contrary, encourage the supplementarys to reduce premiums, in particular by reducing their operating costs, in order to attract or retain insured persons. That is why the French overwhelmingly support the measure: as you said, rapporteur, 94% of them are in favour of it, according to a survey by the FIFG. Moreover, similar measures in other insurance sectors have not resulted in premium increases, on the contrary; Thus, the possibility of annual termination of borrower insurance contracts, opened since 1 January 2018, has led some bodies to reduce their premiums by 30%. Second, this measure will not promote opportunistic behaviour. It only authorizes the termination of a supplementary health insurance contract after a period of one year, thus preventing opportunistic behaviour. An insured person who would like to take a health supplement before a scheduled medical procedure, and then stop taking it after the procedure, could not, therefore, do so. Moreover, this measure will not destabilize the market. It will encourage the mobility of insured persons who wish to change their health supplement, however, from a global point of view, it will not drastically change the current situation, because annual termination is already possible, allowing everyone to change their contract each year. Moreover, the Hamon law of 2014 did not lead to destabilizing effects. Finally, this measure will not result in demutualization of risks to the detriment of the elderly. Guarantees in terms of mutualisation remain unchanged, including for the most vulnerable: mutual societies and other bodies offering responsible contracts, which sign almost all contracts, cannot collect medical information from their members or fix a contribution according to the state of health of the insured. The risk of demutualization had already been highlighted in discussions on the Hamon Act, particularly on borrower insurance, but it did not materialize: tariffs have fallen sharply to the benefit of all, including those at increased risk of health. Thus, this measure will be in favour of all insured persons, in particular the elderly, for whom the current restrictive conditions of termination are very unfavourable. They are most subject to sudden increases in contributions from individual contracts, and it may be difficult for them to find a new contract within the 20-day deadline, as many of them are not familiar with new technologies. Having said that, I would like to point out that this bill does not in my view mean any mistrust of the role of complementary health care in our health care system. On the contrary, I commend the joint work with the complementary agencies since I took office. This joint work has led to major advances: I am thinking of the reform of "100% health", which was built in close connection with all the actors, in particular the federations of complementary bodies. This reform, which will lead to a zero-load remainder for optical, auditory and dental equipment, is emblematic of what we can succeed together. This is one of the first times that the absence of dependency is defined as the result of the combined intervention of the two stages of health insurance, the compulsory health insurance and the supplementary insurance. For all French people, this is a real step forward in access to care and, for our country, a real step forward in public health. One of the objectives of the reform was to improve the readability of contracts. All the federations of complementary bodies carried out a work to this end: last February it took shape by the signing of a space agreement by the federations of complementary bodies. This is a major step forward in terms of transparency and comparability of guarantees for insured persons, since it provides for common examples and wording, but also for the harmonisation of the presentation of guarantees in euro. I have confidence in the capacity of the actors to implement the commitments made. That being said, I know the scope of the issue: rest assured that I will follow closely their deployment in the "100% health" reform follow-up committee. In view of these results, I do not think it appropriate to legislate on the subject, as this would call into question the common working method which led to the reform of "100% health". Even if its object may seem circumscribed, this bill is of great importance: it promotes a concrete measure, which, by removing the current obstacles to the change of complementary health, will have a real impact on the daily lives of the French. I welcome this parliamentary initiative, which I am convinced meets the expectations of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The Government is therefore fully in favour of this bill, which will contribute to the defence of the purchasing power of insured persons and to access to a care package appropriate to their needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u133	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u134	What does this bill want? "Enhancing Competition in the Health Complementary Insurance Market." By what means? "Open the possibility to terminate contracts at no cost and at any time after the first year of subscription." For what reason? Perhaps the mutuals may have dared to announce that they would have to pass on the effects of the remaining zero charge and other various measures. In any case, this bill sounds like a punitive operation in the ears of some. The sponsor of this operation would be at the Elysée, and we here would execute the sentence. We cannot ignore that some actors have experienced the tabling of this bill in this way, even if, Madam Minister, you have just indicated that the text did not have that meaning. Unless all this is the pretext for a new liberal offensive in the coveted field of health insurance. For this measure with vexatious accents, criticized by the main actors even before it came into being, will put a new blow of club in the building of solidarity health, further weakening mutualism. Indeed, increasing competition in the field of supplementary health insurance amounts to relying on the market to ensure equal access to care. However, not content to be unable to do so, the market has consistently shown that it favours unequal treatment. It does not guarantee that the right price is paid, since it pursues, by its very nature, other objectives, such as the service of the financial profitability of the big owners and the staging of the victory of the strongest. Talk to him about the right to health, he's only interested in the benefit we can get from it! No more than health itself, the right to health is a commodity. "Everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living to ensure his or her health (...), in particular for (...) medical care and necessary social services (...)", declares article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The invisible hand of the market cannot be a guarantee of this right. Does the World Health Organization say anything else when it proclaims that "governments have the responsibility for the health of their peoples; they can only cope with it by taking appropriate health and social measures"? Governments, she says, not the money powers, not the market. Reaffirming that the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being, WHO – the World Health Organization – defines health as "a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being [which] is not merely a lack of disease or disability". It also draws attention to the fact that "the health of all peoples is a fundamental condition of world peace and security" and that "the results achieved by each State in improving and protecting health are valuable to all". These are the same reasons why, in its founding statement, the Philadelphia Declaration, the International Labour Organization, whose deliberations should have at least as much force of law as those of the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – calls for "the extension of social security measures to ensure a basic income for all those in need of such protection and comprehensive medical care". This ambition was reaffirmed and clarified in a more recent recommendation adopted in 2012. While considerable progress has been made worldwide, more than half of the world's population lacks access to health care and social protection. Only 35 per cent of children in the world are covered by social protection. As this universal battle unfolds, we have a duty here in our country not to retreat. To increase competition, to increase market power, for us it is to step back, to give in, not to work for the extension of social security measures. This is not to assist in the realization of the principle enshrined in article 1 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, according to which "men are born and remain free and equal in rights" and "social distinctions can be based only on common utility". This is not to help implement the spirit of the preamble of the 1946 Constitution, according to which the nation "ensures the individual and the family the conditions necessary for their development", "guarantees to all, especially to the child, mother and old workers, the protection of health" and "proclaims the solidarity and equality of all French people in the face of the burdens resulting from national calamities". Diseases are a calamity; Free and undistorted competition is another – it will cure us of nothing. What about social security? Where do we stand on social protection? What about the right to health? The considerable progress made during the twentieth century, including social security itself, which I do not hesitate to describe as a marker of civilization, is not enough to be successful. The building is damaged. Instead of continuing its construction, its structure has been weakened, and the challenge by this government and this majority of the principle of assessment is not the least of the blows that have been inflicted on it. In the momentum for the right to health, without concealing the fact that this has been achieved in controversy and contradiction, the mutualist movement has played an essential role. While it sometimes escaped its own, this mutualist movement, a movement of social appropriation and self-management, which had established mutual aid associations and relief funds, became a major cultural fact. Acting in practice in such a factory, in such a basin of life, in such a branch, in such a sanitary yard, he installed the individual and collective requirement of the right to health as an essential fight to be waged. Thus, at Liberation, at the end of the abyss of the Pétain regime and the Occupancy, in the same movement as social security was created, in its incompletion of the time, the role of mutuals was redefined at its side. "The mutual society must now be the normal framework of all the institutions of mutual aid", proclaims the explanatory statement of the founding text of 1945. The contribution of the mutualist movement to the foundation of social security was then recognized and a new status was imagined for the movement, allowing it to "maintain and develop its essential place in the French social organization". What place? "The essence of mutuality has always been to pave the way for new social achievements," says the official text. "The role of the legislator is not to chart the way for them, but to provide them with a legal status ensuring that their actions are as free and effective as possible. Indeed, if the core activity of the mutuals was to propose a complementary health care in support of social security, it was not their only vocation. This was the starting point for a new impulse for the mutual movement. For example, in the Bouches-du-Rhône, health centres, based on a multidisciplinary team medicine, acted on a daily basis for health in all its dimensions and sought to promote access to health care in the best possible way. In this way, an innovative approach was put in place to track down the eliminationable diseases, with a cadastre of workplaces in the Gulf of Fos-sur-Mer, creating a link between the various health actors to develop true prevention. Thus were invented the ways of the paying third party. In this way, community-based mutualist groups were organized, whose members seized the stakes and took power over health together, and company or local correspondents established themselves to lead this action, this work. It is this and probably many other achievements that made Louis Calisti say: "So mutuality has appeared to me as one of the decisive factors for more solidarity, more justice, democracy and freedom. As one of the decisive factors in enabling every woman, every man to fully develop all his physical, moral and intellectual potential. Who will recognize the strength and public interest of this work of popular invention, innovation and education to its proper extent? In 1978, the National Federation of Workers' Mutuals, chaired by the same Louis Calisti, warned against "any attempt to plan social demand in a technocratic way, to normalize it, to freeze and to unify the structures of response [, which] leads to an economic and human waste", against "removing the word from the users and dispossessing them from their power", for it thus "perverts the role, place and knowledge of the personnel". Can we really do without the voluntary dimension, the dimension of engagement, the spirit by which we are not simply a patient, not a consumer, let alone a customer or a market share, but a full player in health and health policies? In the same 1978 text, mutualists already denounced the fact that their activity was "threat by the insurance and profit sector". The expression of the willingness of a number of for-profit economic actors to take their share of the health and care budget is therefore not a thing of today. In fact, various reforms have been in this direction. Between 2000 and 2012, the share of mutuals in the health supplement market lost 8 points. Insurance and bank insurance have come to impose their models, forcing ever larger groupings. Conversely, for a long time, mutualists have denounced – and this is not without effect – the weakness of social security repayments, of which they are promoters. For a long time, they have denounced the hypocrisy of the over-added taxes, which constitute an indirect puncture in the pocket of their insureds. For a long time, they have been questioning the liberal model, which threatens to lock them in a role as an actor among others in a large market for supplementary health insurance, on the one hand, and a large market for the provision of care, on the other. Unfortunately, the bill before us this afternoon is part of a slow process of demolition of the mutual movement in our country. We would have to say about our social model and the necessary developments. In order to guarantee a full right to health, social security should be reinvigorated rather than underfunded, and it should be progressively but resolutely committed to providing 100 per cent of care through social security. Such a movement, whose mutual movement could be a driving force, would lead to a rethinking of its place to bring the demand for the right to health to its full extent, as defined by the World Health Organization. Now, what are you doing? You sell even more, treating a health supplement as a car insurance. You are opening up much space, in this case, to financial powers, without worrying about the only question that ultimately applies: will it lead to progress in access to care? You are making a more than risky bet, in which we should not commit ourselves. The picture I have portrayed of mutuality would deserve some nuances, because time has done its work, competition has done its work, changing the nature, sometimes the projects of a number of actors. But it is on these mutualist principles that we must base our social protection today and tomorrow: non-selection of risk, equal treatment, transparency, social action. Dumping has never produced anything good in social matters. If we were to act to clean up a number of practices, it would be better to turn to regulatory measures rather than deregulation, including the unacceptable behaviour sometimes found. Here you are, therefore, acting without precaution, by means of a bill which, without insulting you, you can think that it is of governmental and Elysean inspiration – in any case, so are the appearances – that makes it possible to dispense with any impact assessment and has not been the subject of any in-depth discussion with the actors concerned. So you can describe to us the mountains and wonders that it holds for us without supporting your words. Its very wording, very schematic, has the merit of clarity, but the debate has already shown that it raises some objections, some purely practical, which have been neglected, and some more fundamental, which have been expressed up to your majority. Some of you seem to have a doubt, when it is not convinced of the harmfulness of this measure. The latter, at other times, had already been taken out of some drawer by Emmanuel Macron before it was finally handed over, in front of the opposition it had aroused and the good reasons to renounce it which had then been born. By the way, I would like to point out that I have not seen a sign to claim it – yet, in recent months, many signs have been waved in the streets... Since an FIFG survey on this measure has been mentioned earlier, I would like you to pay the same attention to the opinions expressed in the public opinion polls on the issue of the ISF, on the tax on wealth, for example – we will have to talk about it in the near future, at least I hope. Is your diagnosis fair? Alas, no! Your analysis is wrong. You think that supplementary contracts are too expensive. We don't know where you think that this money is evaporating that would not be reinvested in the reimbursement of care, except in management fees. There are two main reasons for the increase in the rates of the supplements, in the case of mutual societies in any case. Firstly, the mechanical increase in the cost of support cannot be ignored. In 15 years, health spending increased by 64 per cent, while inflation rose to 25 per cent. In addition, while the State was compressing social security expenditure, the supplementary payments were partly offsetting. With regard to the implementation of the remainder at zero charge, it was decided to make it partly based on mutuals. The DREES – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – itself concedes, in its May 2018 report, that mutual societies do not have a margin to amortize new expenses without carrying them over on contributions. It was explained that with the smoothing of the implementation of this measure over several years, this would represent the thickness of the line. However, this will not eliminate the additional costs. Secondly, how can we not mention the increase in taxes on mutual societies, which rose from 1.75% in 2005 to more than 14% in 2019? I insist on these rates! It is necessary to measure the extent of this tax, which is a form of indirect tax, of hidden tax, which is the responsibility of the complementary partners. Obviously, you hope to finance it by accelerating competition. But at the end of the day, someone will have to pay the price! It is almost two months of contributions that are pumped by the State. In 2019, the increase was an additional 0.8%. In the end, mutual contracts are more taxed than a burger! Another problem is the imbalance that has arisen as a result of the trade war already declared in order to conquer compulsory collective contracts by drawing prices to the maximum. Unfortunately, individual contractors, who are often non-employees – young people and pensioners – do not benefit from this movement. But you dream if you think you're giving them bargaining power! These are many other mechanisms that need to be convened. I'm putting forward another hypothesis. I assure you that, among the banks in the sector, all the money collected does not actually go back to health care, but that a share is redirected to the remuneration of shareholders. This money, which does not exist in the non-profit institutions of the sector, should indeed be sought. You don't deal with it with your bill. At this point, I want to say a word about management fees, since it is for you the main cause of rate increases. You compare them with those of social security, which is not consistent, since it does not collect and, a contrario, does not cover additional costs – and it is not minor in the composition of these costs. So let's talk about these costs, which go up, for example, for one of the families of the French Mutuality established in my territory, to 14.70 per cent of the contributions, of which 0.2 per cent are advertising. The current rules also impose a number of these expenses to ensure responsible contracts, compliance with the European Data Protection Regulation, etc. In these management costs are those related to the setting up of the paying third party, on which the public authority itself chooses to renounce. What is the philosophy of your measurement? It is already possible to change the complement each year, i.e. the commitment is agreed on over a year. The prudential model is based on this principle: one year of reserve, on the one hand; One year of visibility, one year of guarantees for the insured, on the other hand. As for you, you want us to be able to change at any time, thus calling into question this model of management which allows us to remain in a certain timescale, to ensure a certain stability and above all a certain solidarity. Because you don't just make sure of yourself, especially when it comes to health: you make sure of each other. It is this principle of solidarity, according to which everyone receives according to his needs, that we must make progress! Here, on the contrary, you add to the questioning of this basic mutualist principle: you push the individualization of the law where collective and universal logics should be reintroduced. You encourage silo practices, in which, depending on the risks that characterize each, it is placed in a given category, with the corresponding contracts. The more solvent will be even more courteous, the less solvent even more neglected. We won't gain anything. This may lead to increased renunciation of complementary care and care. I would remind you that 4 million people in our country – it is considerable – do not have any health supplements. This should not be left to the percentages. It's about 4 million people! In difficulty, it is often the first item of expenditure that happens. However, a study published by the DREES in 2015 indicates that non-coverage by a supplement is the main reason for giving up care. Those who do not do so give up care twice as much as those who are covered. Ultimately, those most in need of medical coverage are the least well covered. And the situation is deteriorating at high speed among young people: two thirds of young people were covered in 2018, compared to three quarters in 2017. On the other hand, you do not say anything about the quality of the offer, which is an essential issue. In addition, you are even more questioning the commitment dimension, which implies a minimum period of subscription. You place the social insured firmly in the position of the marketing target, at the best of the high-frequency trader, who organises itself the drying up of the resources allowing access to care and pulls the guarantees down. So this is a false good idea. What will be the effects of your bill? They will be contrary, in our sense, to those you claim to seek. I will quote Jean-Paul Benoit, President of the Federation of Mutuals of France: "The liberal market and competition in the field of health and social protection increase costs and increase inequalities". This will be all the more true in a phase of concentration of the players in the sector. You don't make any details; You unceasingly proclaim: "Let the best win! Woe to the vanquished! The defeat will be that of the right to health in our country. You will increase management costs, as more frequent contract breaks will have to be managed. You're going to increase the costs of communication and advertising, intensifying the commercial war. In this respect, the measure adopted in committee allowing the new supplementary body to carry out the termination operations on the basis of the insured person's mandate will be an additional tool. Examples of abusive practices in this area have already been reported to us. You're going to increase the inequalities. Indeed, in order to attract more and more the most advantageous insured persons, it will be necessary to further segment the offers: we will pull them up for those who have the means, and down for the others. You will challenge the development of the paying third party, one of the factors in access to care. Mechanisms to guarantee this, which were tenable on the basis of a one-year commitment, may no longer be tenable. You will further reduce the proportion devoted by mutuals to prevention and social works, which are indispensable in view of, for example, the stakes of medical desertification. There are 2684 mutual institutions in the country, where more than 15,000 health professionals work together in this spirit of solidarity and networking. You will increase medical nomadism and contribute – as the president of the Fédération nationale de la Mutalité française, Thierry Beaudet, affirms – to making complementary health "a common consumer good, where the only question that is worth calculating cost/benefit for oneself and for oneself alone"! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you would benefit – and the country with you – from getting rid of this Pavlovian reflex, because of which the answer to every question you ask takes the form of a new liberal gesture. This will be in addition to the previous measures which have placed our social protection in the unsatisfactory state in which it is located. You have to give it up. I have come to provide you with the means, thanks to this motion of rejection. If you are interested in the subject, let's work on it, talk about it and try to advance solidarity, instead of triumphing over free and undistorted competition. [[Applause on the SOC and LT benches]] In working on these issues, I found a speech delivered in March 1982 by the then Minister of Health, Jack Ralite. Here is an excerpt: "The concept of equality is a concept that seems to be quite simple in the country of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, but, in concrete terms, as soon as we discover it, people quickly abandon it! The human – the care of the human – deserves and calls much better than that. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u135	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u136	Mr Dharréville, I have taken note of your remarks. However, I cannot understand on what basis you feel this is a Liberal-inspired bill. This is a bill to restore purchasing power to the French. I would like to go back to a few figures that you have put forward, which suggest that mutuals can do better in terms of management costs. Since 2010, the increase in their costs has exceeded that of health care expenditure by 3 percentage points: they have increased by 21%, faster than ONDAM – the national target for health insurance expenditure. That is why we are concerned about the share of management costs involved. You mentioned 100% health. I would like to point out that this reform, which I have negotiated with the mutuals, is largely covered by compulsory health insurance. In fact, in four years, three quarters of the resulting expenditure will be borne by social security, i.e. 750 million euros, compared with 250 million euros paid by mutual societies. Finally, I would like to point out that the share taken over by mutuals in the overall expenditure of health insurance – even though its costs increase more rapidly than its expenditure – has decreased, year after year, compared to that borne by social security. However, as a result of the increase in the number of insured persons suffering from a chronic disease, covered by 100% LFA – a long-term condition – there are fewer and fewer patients in need of mutual care or whose health costs are reimbursed by a mutual fund. In sum, the share of mutuals is decreasing, that of health insurance is increasing, and the costs of managing mutuals – at least their costs – are increasing faster than health spending in general. So there is something abnormal in the system, and we believe that this bill can be a plus for our fellow citizens, especially in terms of purchasing power gain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u137	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is open to Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u138	Just 24 hours after the adoption at first reading of the health law, which gives emphasis to ordinances and decrees to reform our care system, we have to decide on a text that has not been the subject of any prior consultation with mutual actors, trade unions and user associations. Obviously, the relegation of intermediate bodies has become a tenacious habit that you are struggling to undo. Similarly, the use of a bill allows you to avoid the obligation to provide an impact assessment, which would have been very useful in judging the effectiveness of your measures on the purchasing power of the French. We cannot subscribe to this method, which consists of legislating in haste while ignoring social dialogue. Such issues would have deserved a calm and informed debate, especially since doubts about the validity of your measures were expressed up to the ranks of the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Pierre Dharréville has just brilliantly declined the reasons for our opposition to the text. The GDR Group supports the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u139	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u140	While we understand the opposition to the text expressed by the GDR Group, it nevertheless seems to us important to discuss it. Indeed, the bill raises two important issues: improving the purchasing power of our citizens – which is and must be our priority – and access to care, sometimes hampered by the high cost of health care. The current context, which I will not recall, calls on us, even more than usual, to discuss legislative proposals in the direction of reducing the burden of spending and improving the standard of living of the French. Even if we are not convinced by the mechanism chosen, we want the debate to take place. More specifically, the Liberties and Territories Group considers that the proposed measure is based on incorrect findings – I think we will have the opportunity to come back to them – the main one is to treat private insurance and mutuals indifferently, which is to deny the very essence of the mutualist spirit, which is based on the concept of solidarity between members guaranteeing one another. We expect the debate to clarify this aspect of the subject. To debate it seems to us all the more necessary because no impact assessment has been carried out, which prevents us from pronounceing with certainty and confidence on the text. Finally, despite our doubts about the majority group's proposal, there are indeed points to be improved with regard to the functioning of complementary health care. We have an opportunity to address them. Accordingly, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u141	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u142	Mr Dharréville, thank you for this motion of rejection, which allows me to address two important points, on form and substance. [[Smile]] On the form, we have heard a lot about "demutualization" in your argument. In any case, I congratulate you on your practice of sharing the methods that you usually criticize.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u143	It's a fair return!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u144	In fact, we are often accused of putting forward motions for prior rejection and contravening the debate; in this case, you are the one who is proposing such a motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u145	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u146	I find it a pity, but I congratulate you on this mutualization, which is going well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u147	[[Smile]] We are far from being equal! I still have work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u148	In essence, to reject this bill is to deny the expected gain in purchasing power, which represents up to 1000 euros per year for a couple with similar guarantees. It is also a denial of the existence of an organized system aimed at making the most fragile insured persons captive. Finally, it is to deny the existence of sharp increases in the prices of mutuals, without recourse to the insured. Colleagues in the GDR Group, I know that your political atavism urges you to defend all French people, especially fragile populations, against the financial powers of an influential minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u149	That goes without saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u150	Do you mind?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u151	Unfortunately, your motion of rejection is not in that direction, and I regret it. As the minister pointed out, we are moving towards increasing the purchasing power of the French and improving the guarantee possibilities for complementary health care. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The La République en marche group will obviously vote against the motion to reject it beforehand, because it is in its DNA to seek to improve the lives of all the French, beyond partisan divisions and personal interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u152	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u153	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u154	The purpose of this bill is to provide policyholders – both individuals and businesses – with the opportunity to terminate health supplement contracts at no cost and at any time during the first year of subscription. At first glance, such a measure may seem to be in the interest of individuals and businesses. However, the text raises questions. First of all, we question how he arrived at the National Assembly's office, without any impact assessment – I would point out in my turn – without any consultation with the actors concerned. You hope that the increased competition in the health supplement market – the objective pursued by the text – will lead to the moderation of their prices. However, we are concerned that such a measure will have the opposite effect, by inducing an increase in the cost of managing health supplements, which will pass on the additional costs to employees. On the other hand, you consider that the mobility facility thus granted should lead to an improvement in the competition of complementary health products and oblige them to make their guarantees more legible. It seems to us difficult to establish a strong link between the two. We even consider that this competition may lead health-care organizations to highlight their most attractive guarantees, to the detriment of those covering other health-care activities. On all these points, you have tried to reassure us during the presentation of the text. To be frank, we continue to ask ourselves what justifies the early passage of such a bill. However, we have listened to you and wish to discuss the text. The LR group will therefore abstain on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u156	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u157	This bill is first of all a measure for purchasing power, designed to encourage a reduction in the rates of health supplements paid to insured persons. As we have seen over the past decade, the costs of health-related supplements have risen sharply. In 2016, the amount of health insurance contributions was € 35.9 billion. As for management fees, since 2010, they have increased twice as fast as reimbursement to insured persons. Increased competition between complementary health organisations, with improved readability of their offers, allowing comparison of the proposed guarantees, is a solution which cannot be ignored, as it will help to regulate the tariffs charged by complementary health care providers. The progress made in committee, in particular the introduction of information on the redistribution rate of contributions collected by category of contract, which is a better indicator for insured persons, leads us to consider this bill to be welcome. If the political positions on this text are shared, however, it is clearly of interest to all our insured fellow citizens. For all these reasons, I assure you once again of the full support of the MODEM Group for this bill. Therefore, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u158	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u159	I will begin by thanking and congratulating Pierre Dharréville for the clarity of his speech and the strength of his demonstration. If the Socialist and related group supports the motion to reject it beforehand, it is because we would have liked this bill to be discussed in a normal setting. It was tabled by the majority group, but it is clearly a government initiative; It would therefore have been fairer, more wiser to include it, for example, in the PACTE bill – on business growth and transformation – which would have allowed for an analysis of the measures it contains in an impact assessment. But you exempted yourself from such a study. Yet your idea is questionable. She's not new: she's been hanging out in Bercy's boxes for years. Five years ago, when Benoît Hamon was preparing his own law, it was proposed by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention. But it was then considered that health is not a commodity like any other, that one does not consume care, and that therefore one should not rely on the laws of the banking and insurance market, whose interests are distinct from those of the mutual system. But you have market fetishism, both in health and in other areas. Sometimes, however, it does not produce the desired effects. Remember the introduction of a fourth telephone operator: prices have fallen, but 10,000 jobs have been destroyed and we have now taken a considerable delay in the deployment of broadband. You will see that your measure will also have consequences for the health of our citizens. I come to the real questions. Will the measure you take improve access to care? There's nothing to show. Will inequalities, particularly age-related inequalities, be reduced? There's nothing to show. Will management costs decrease? There's nothing to show. Will the prevention policy of a number of mutual societies be strengthened? There's nothing to show. Will solidarity be increased? There is no evidence of this either. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Are you going to trivialize health as a consumer good? Yes. Are you going to weaken mutuals? Yes. Are you going to play banking and insurance? Yes, I do. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and LT benches]] In the absence of an impact assessment, you take advantage of a number of surveys, but it is hardly convincing to rely on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u160	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u161	The UDI-Agir Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. We share the objectives set out in this bill, which responds to the concerns of consumers and insured persons, and will give them bargaining power in the face of complementary, and hence purchasing power. However, some points remain to be made, as I said in committee. I am thinking in particular of an information component on contracts. Too many of our fellow citizens do not know what they subscribe to when they sign a mutual agreement. This bill provided an opportunity to introduce such a clause. It is therefore not appropriate to reject the text; We would prefer, as we always say, whenever a motion of rejection is debated, that the debate be held in the House, in the presence of the Government, in order to remove the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u162	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u163	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 6 Against 53
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u164	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u165	The bill that we are considering this afternoon, defended by the majority, is intended to allow the termination at any time of a health supplement contract, whether it has been signed with a mutual, insurance or welfare institution. I stressed this at the moment in my explanation of vote on the motion to reject it, it is barely 24 hours after the adoption at first reading of the health law, which gives emphasis to ordinances and decrees to reform our system of care, that we are led to rule on a text which has not been the subject, as has been said, of any prior consultation with mutual actors, trade unions and user associations. The relegation of intermediate bodies has become a habit of the majority. In the same vein, the use of a bill allows you to avoid the obligation to provide an impact assessment, whereas it would have been very useful to judge the effectiveness of your measures for the purchasing power of the French. We cannot subscribe to this method, which aims at legislating in haste while ignoring social dialogue. These issues would have merited a calm and informed debate, especially since doubts are expressed in the ranks of the majority on the merits of your measures. The last sign of your impreparation: the rapporteur has come to correct the original version of your text tabled on the Bureau of the Committee on Social Affairs on 16 occasions. On the substance, what is the ambition of this bill? Its stated objective is to lower the cost of mutuals and health insurance, which has increased in recent years, by increasing competition between organizations offering complementary health care. If it is already possible to cancel its supplement annually on the anniversary date of the contract, your text intends to open this possibility at any time after one year of membership, as is the case for home and car insurance. At first glance, it could be thought that this text pursues a legitimate objective, at a time when more and more French people are giving up their care, due in particular to the excesses of fees and the resulting leftovers. However, behind the beautiful packaging of a text that aims to facilitate the termination of supplementary contracts, there is in reality a dangerous proposal for a law which, in our view, breaks with the mechanisms of solidarity. Several arguments, ladies and gentlemen, lead us to strongly oppose both philosophy and the practical provisions of this text. First, it starts from a bad point of view. The increase in health supplement contributions in recent years is primarily due to a gradual shift from social security to supplementary health care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u166	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u167	Since the 1980s, successive reforms aimed at deburring or setting up user tickets have moved the public to the private sector in terms of health coverage. The figures are without appeal: compulsory health insurance covers hospital care and long-term conditions very well, but less and less urban care, including optical and dental care and hearing aids. Moreover, if the cost of the supplementarys has risen rapidly, it is also due to the public authorities' levies on mutuals. Each law on the financing of social security provides an opportunity for the Government to increase taxes on mutuals, through an increase in the additional solidarity tax and various packages, in order to compensate the under-financing of the sickness branch. For example, more than 14% of the contributions paid on mutual funds are paid to the State in the form of taxes, which mechanically results in an increase in the contributions of insured persons. Cynically, the government's disengagement from health spending results in an increase in household spending. And you're responding with more competition. Bad observation; bad solution. Secondly, this text is confusing, which we believe is dangerous, by putting car insurance and complementary health insurance on the same footing. We cannot treat health as a consumer product or a commodity like any other. We now have a little setback to show that the promotion of free and undistorted competition to meet social needs is often a failure. Far from causing a fall in prices, it certainly builds an economy of rent, to the detriment of the quality of the services rendered. For our part, we believe that health is a common good that must escape the demands of profitability and lucrativity. However, your text helps to subject care to the logic of financialization a little more. Thirdly, strengthening competition between complementary bodies will undermine the solidarity base on which the mutual movement is based. The latter has already suffered attacks in recent years and private insurance now accounts for 30% of the complementary health insurance market, favored by the introduction in 2013 of mandatory health supplements in companies. In an increasingly concentrated sector, your text will only strengthen the mastodons of the bancassurance, in order to make the assuring operation take precedence over the logic of solidarity. This means abandoning the principle of redistribution between healthy and ill, as well as between rich and poor, in favour of a logic of individualization of risks according to age, state of health, habits of life of each person. That is why your proposal weakens solidarity. Fourthly, promoting competition risks increasing social inequalities in access to care. Even today, 5% of French people do not have supplementary coverage, and for many of our citizens the level of health coverage depends on their ability to pay. It is the highest income that has the insurance that best covers them; For others, going to the dentist means financing a lot of the care from their pockets. Your proposal therefore risks benefiting a clientele of solvent insured persons, i.e. rather young, active and at low risk, in a purely insurgency logic. On the other hand, more precarious or older, higher-risk insured persons will be disadvantaged. In the end, competition will apply to the quality of health coverage, with no significant effect on the prices of complementary products. At the time of the great national debate, in which the concerns of our fellow citizens about access to care are strongly expressed, it seems imprudent to us to let the French hope a hypothetical gain in purchasing power through a change in complementary health care. On the contrary, social security must be given a new ambition. We have a long history of providing 100% coverage for compulsory health insurance, starting with young people under 25 years of age. We could also make progress on the generalization of the fee-paying third party, a reform that the Government has put under control as soon as it takes responsibility. These are proposals that have the merit of clarity and simplicity, and that would help to combat neglect. While the health of the market should be removed, the proposal under discussion this afternoon aggravates the rampant privatisation of care. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will oppose this text and support several amendments aimed at removing the provisions contained therein.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u168	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u169	Access to health care and purchasing power: these are, to sum up, the two themes that you propose to address this afternoon with this bill of the La République group on the move. Today, more than ever before, we are encouraged to reconcile these two aspects. Indeed, while health was not one of the themes of the great national debate, it was itself an indication, if necessary, of the major concern it represents for the French. Specifically, access to the health system is a matter of concern. This has been widely discussed over the past two weeks in the context of the review of the bill on the organization and transformation of the health care system. Beyond medical desertification, another aspect of unequal access to the health system is the cost of health care and health coverage. In fact, not only do the costs associated with complementary services weigh heavily on the purchasing power of households, but they can also act as a deterrent, thus depriving users of their right to subscribe to them. The numbers speak for themselves. In 2018, one in ten French citizens had no health coverage. This proportion is increasing compared to previous years, and the trend is more pronounced among young people and students, of whom only 66% were covered, compared to 75% in 2017. Beyond young people, there is also a marked shift away from complementary health care among households with the lowest incomes. The high cost of complementary care therefore directly threatens access to the care of our fellow citizens, who sometimes go so far as to give up treatment. The other concern of the great debate, most probably at the root of the crisis we have been going through for four months now, is related to purchasing power. The Liberties and Territories Group naturally wishes to provide concrete answers to those who ask to live with dignity the fruits of their work. To this end, we voted on certain emergency measures last December, including the valorisation of the activity premium. More recently, the Prime Minister has announced other proposals to tackle household spending, the "dead corners of purchasing power," to use his words. It is in fact on the subject of incompressible expenditure, which cannot be avoided, that we need to make particular progress, since its weight has increased sharply since the beginning of the 2000s. Of these, additional health costs, which account for between 2 and 5 per cent of the so-called pre-committed expenditure, are clearly targeted. This topic deserves special attention as health spending, as we know, is increasing: it has increased by more than 30 per cent in ten years. As a result, health supplement contributions have obviously increased in turn, by more than 38 per cent over the same period. It should be noted, however, that these increases are also linked to the increase in taxes levied directly on premiums, which rose from 1.75% in 2000 to 14.1% today, an increase of more than 10 points. Addressing these incompressible expenses can therefore appear, at first glance, to be a commendable objective. However, our group has some doubts about the means you have chosen to achieve this. How can we ensure that the possibility of cancelling health supplement contracts free of charge at any time actually results in lower tariffs? At the moment, we have no guarantee in this regard. Perverse effects may even be expected, which would take the form of an increase in advertising costs, in the context of increased competition that you encourage. The same applies to administrative management costs, which could increase if contracts are terminated more frequently. How can we ensure that these increases are not passed on to the level of contributions? In addition, is there not a risk to call into question some of the recent achievements of our social protection system? I am thinking, for example, of the paying third party, a mechanism based on partnerships with health professionals, which requires clear information on open human rights and a time frame for implementation, incompatible with an unstable system. I am also thinking of the rest of it as a zero charge, which, although not yet fully implemented, has already raised fears of an increase in mutual fund costs. Even more serious, I am thinking of the key value of our protection system: solidarity among its members, to which our group is deeply committed. The measure you are considering is indeed aimed at lowering prices, which will lead mutuals to propose to their members a tariff that is even closer to the cost of the insured risk. We are therefore particularly concerned that the contributions of people at risk, such as the elderly, will increase to ensure attractive prices for the rest of the population. Our concern, as you understand it, is that by adopting your measure, we were helping to further weaken the situation of the most deprived, the very people who expressed their difficulties during the recent protests. Thus, after the increase in the CSG and after the non-indexation of retirement pensions to the cost of living, we would risk validating the increase in their health supplement rates. The risk seems far too high. In fact, the problem is that your proposal, although we share its objective, is based on two erroneous findings. The first is to put in the same bag private and mutual insurances. However, it seems essential to recall that, in the case of supplementary health care, a distinction must be made between, on the one hand, public limited liability insurance companies and, on the other hand, mutual insurance companies. If the former seek to make profits to pay dividends to their shareholders, the latter have the status of a civil society not for profit, which means that they are not supposed to make profits. Despite this distinction, you advocate encouraging similar and exacerbated competition for these two types of organizations, regardless of where they are. This brings me to your second wrong basic premise, which is to see health as an act of consumption like another. The rapporteur, you are presenting this bill as "an evolution of the Hamon law, not a revolution". Yet, as its name indicated, this law passed in 2014 was about consumption and excluded health, which was not in its place. Your vision tends to eliminate the principle of mutuals to which we are attached, which is to organize a collective response to individual health needs, allowed by the mutualization of risks. Health is not a sector like any other. Liberal ideology, if it can work in other areas, is certainly not the most appropriate in this area. Moreover, pure and perfect competition does not exist, and the problem of readable information, accessible to all, will persist, despite the recent commitments of the agencies in this area. Some may be able to easily move from one contract to another, but this will not be the case for all of us, and it may even penalize the most fragile of us. Despite all our reservations about this bill, we consider it necessary to ask ourselves about the functioning of complementary health care. It obviously needs to be improved to ensure that it responds primarily to our health needs, not to the goal of enriching organizations. In particular, the question may arise when it is known that 20% of the contributions collected are not allocated to the reimbursement of benefits. However, we are not convinced of the effectiveness of the measure you propose, especially since termination is already possible at the annual expiry of the contract. We therefore do not see how termination at any time will lead to a well-known improvement in purchasing power. In addition, unfortunately, we do not have an impact assessment on which to base our assessment of the implementation of the measure, which could have allowed us to dispel our doubts. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Consequently, the freedom and territory group, by its majority, will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u170	Mr Olivier Véran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u171	For almost four months, our country has been in a major social crisis. It has revealed that a large part of our fellow citizens are struggling to close their ends for months and feel caught up in all the bills and expenses of everyday life, to the point that the expected increase in fuel taxes has appeared to be unbearable. Electricity, petrol, food, taxes, sometimes even taxes on taxes: all this was widely illustrated during the major national debate held since January. The question of purchasing power appears to be the primary concern of the French. The Members of Parliament on all sides – those of the majority, in the first place – listened well and heard this message, in the course of the many debates in which they took part in their territories. This bill is one way to reduce these burdensome expenses on families and even more so on the most fragile and precarious. The acquisition of a health supplement is one of those health-related costs that we are almost obliged to pay, and that can weigh on the French budget. For those who want to treat themselves properly, they have become unavoidable and sometimes represent a large part of the burdened expenditure of household budgets, this proportion increasing with the size of families and with age. In this area, however, it is necessary to recall the action of the Government, together with the actors concerned, and the strong commitments made by this majority through, inter alia, the reform of the remainder with zero burden on dental, optical and auditory prosthetic care, the implementation of which began thanks to the action of the Minister of Solidarity and Health. This care, which has so far been poorly covered, represents a significant cost to households, particularly to the most vulnerable of them. A quality offer may be available without the insured paying a euro, whatever their complement. This represents a breath of air for many households. There is a need to improve access to additional health insurance, which depends on its cost, and to adapt it to the needs of our citizens. In terms of costs, the figures speak for themselves: over the last decade, contributions have increased by 47 per cent, while inflation has increased by only 14 per cent. Management costs alone, which are often referred to under social security financing laws, have increased by €2.50 per month and per insured person over the past six years. In 2019, for the first time, the cost of managing additional health care will exceed the cost of health insurance, while it represents 78% of the care provided in France. This phenomenon is not a new development – we have already had the opportunity to talk. The complementary bodies, aware of the burden of these costs on the household budget, have also committed themselves to reducing them, willingly agreeing to the effort requested of them. This bill should be seen as an incentive for complementary organizations to gain even more efficiency and to moderate their management costs. To free from the constraint of commitment, without calling into question the mutualisation of risks, is to make play the competition and to restore purchasing power to the French, by simplifying their approach. Such an opportunity will benefit all, especially the most vulnerable. Pensioners, for example, pay the highest contributions because they most often have individual contracts: a couple of seniors spend an average of €2,500 a year to access additional health care – in the context of the big debate, many of us have received salary sheets and receipts from pensioners, and when we see the weight of this item in household budgets, we realize that this is a matter of primary concern for the French. In addition to the expected fall in prices, the administrative simplification of termination at all times represents additional protection and power for consumers, often hampered by the constraints and complexity of the procedures, especially if they are elderly. It is indeed difficult to return the recommended letter of termination before the date of expiry of the contract; We can all get trapped – I have experienced it myself. The main criticism that can be heard, that the bill will increase the costs of complements, does not seem to me to be well founded. All of a sudden, the French will not have the fun of changing several times in addition to the contracts offered to them. This is not true for collective contracts. We trust everyone's common sense and responsibility. In conclusion, I would like to mention before you a proposal which it would be interesting to study in the months and years to come: to protect even more people who, individually, struggle to subscribe to a health supplement because it is very expensive. In these cases, why could health insurance not develop a supplement, the benefits of which would be important, starting with management costs, with health insurance being limited to 3%? We could thus have a supplement that would not compete directly with collective or individual contracts, but would improve access to care for French people who need it, at lower costs. [[Applause on the panel and MODEM benches]] We will therefore vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u172	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u173	The purpose of this bill is to give insured persons, both private and corporate, the possibility to terminate health-related supplementary contracts at no cost and at any time after the first year of subscription. At present, such contracts can be terminated at the annual deadline. However, it is possible to terminate them during the year in two cases: when the insured changes his social security scheme or when the insurer has failed to comply with the obligation to inform his client of his possibility to terminate the contract under the Chatel Act of 2005. As a reminder, the Consumer Act of 17 March 2014, known as the "Hamon Act", provides for the possibility to terminate in the course of the year, after an initial period of one year, the home, civil and motor vehicle multi-risk insurance contracts. The purpose of this bill is to extend this measure to include contracts for the coverage of health risks. It further states that this possibility of termination, free of charge and at any time after the first year of subscription of the health supplement contract, also applies to contracts of insurance of persons subscribed by an employer for its employees. Its objective is to give more freedom to insured persons and to increase competition in the health supplement market. Indeed – this has already been recalled – the supplementary health insurance rates have increased by 21% since 2010 and management fees represent a substantial proportion of the contributions paid by insured persons. Allowing the latter to change health supplements more easily would increase their bargaining power and stimulate competition in the market, which could lead to lower prices. However, I would like to make several reservations about this text. First, mutuals are organizations that collectively respond to individual health needs. This response is not based on the assessment of a commercial market but on a social demand. Applying the same rules to health supplements as to purely commercial services is tantamount to forgetting this dimension. The objective of reducing the rates of health supplements, particularly their management costs, and of returning purchasing power to insured persons is certainly generous and shared. However, the technical feasibility of the measure may be questioned and its induced effects may be contrary to the objective. In the normal competitive logic, the insurance body must be able to intervene on all parameters. However, the contribution finances, in particular, reimbursements of care costs to insured persons on whom the latter cannot act, even though it represents the largest share. As a characteristic of complementary health care, health spending is changing significantly because it is a response to the health needs of the population, as well as to the challenges of aging and the development of chronic diseases. The annuality of contributions is an element of the economic model that allows neither the risk covered nor the person to be selected. Tomorrow, with shorter contracts, people will have to be further segmented according to their specific risks to the disease. Seniors will then be the big losers of the reform. The increased mobility of insured persons may also prevent insurers from financing certain guarantees, which, in turn, will result either in higher rates or in the gradual disappearance of guarantees, thus increasing the remainder, with negative effects on purchasing power. Infra-annual termination weakens the mutualization on which the economic model of mutual societies is based. This principle, based on solidarity between the members, is, I believe, incompatible with any measure that encourages individualisation of risks and increases the segmentation of the population. Seniors are the ones who have the most to lose: 70% covered by mutuals, they benefit from the intergenerational mechanisms allowed by mutualisation. A limited part of the insured – the most knowledgeable and nomadic – will be able to benefit from this new right and gain purchasing power from it. The profile of these beneficiaries is easily identifiable: young people and healthy assets. What about intergenerational solidarity? Will this not result in an increase in contributions paid by pensioners? In social movements, however, it is they who highlight the difficulties in financing their health. Moreover, while care is increasingly predictable or planned, the most opportunistic consumers will be able to benefit, to the detriment of the other insured, from the cumulation of the infra-annual termination and the measures of the Chatel law. Thus, they could purchase a very protective insurance at the end of the year to benefit immediately from the repayments provided for in the contract and then terminate this insurance. Market players will be encouraged to mobilise additional resources to retain their members tempted by a start and to conquer new members already covered, with the risk of a rapid increase in advertising costs. At the same time, the increase in entry and exit into contracts will require more administrative management and therefore additional expenditure. Infra-annual termination may also penalise the development of the paying third party. Insurers have all partnered with bodies managing the technical implementation of the paying third party. These mechanisms are based on precise information on open rights, which gives guarantees to payment practitioners. With termination at any time, the risk of unpaid payments becomes considerable, and professionals may be more reluctant to use the paid third party. This would remove any meaning from the proposed measure, with the paying third party being an effective tool in the fight against waiver of care. It would be paradoxical to continue along this path, Madam Minister, when you express the wish to generalize the paying third party to accompany the reform of 100% health. In the Committee on Social Affairs last week, the bill was far from unanimous among opposition groups. Within the majority group, there were strong differences of opinion. This division reveals the urgency with which the Government has been forced to react to the risk that the rates of health supplements will rise, following the introduction of the remainder at zero charge. The Republicans Group had warned the majority about such a risk. "A follow-up committee will be created to ensure that mutuals meet their commitment not to increase their rates," you said, minister, during the review of the last PLFSS. It is to be believed that this monitoring committee is no longer offering all the guarantees. The recurrent complaints with regard to this text concern the lack of prior consultation and the absence of an impact assessment, which could have removed some doubts as well as the fear of many perverse effects linked to the exacerbated competition in the market for complementary health care: increasing segmentation and strengthening the logic of individualisation of risks; increase in contribution rates due to an increase in management and advertising fees; deviant behaviour of organizations encouraged to highlight their most attractive guarantees at the expense of more costly management; cost-effective patient hunting. From an economic point of view, reservations were also expressed about the actual effects of the proposed legislation. It was also recalled that health is not a common consumer good and therefore cannot be placed on an equal footing with competitive sectors. This text aims to restore purchasing power to the French by reducing the costs associated with complementary health care, an objective that the group Les Républicains shares. But, in fact, we have doubts about the possibility of reaching it. As has been said in committee, the Hamon Act on the readability of contracts offered by insurance, pension institutions and mutual societies has not yet been adopted. How can we imagine increasing the capacity of our fellow citizens to change mutuals if the readability of contracts is not at hand? In committee, the rapporteur had recognised the importance of dealing with this subject. As you have understood, if we agree with the general philosophy of this text, we believe that it lacks legibility and we remain dubious about the potential gain in purchasing power. Despite the few precise amendments adopted in committee, we believe that it remains too vague. That is why the Republican Group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u174	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u175	The movement of yellow vests has reminded us strongly, the improvement of purchasing power is a major concern of our citizens, whether they are active or retired. That is why the President of the Republic has made strong commitments since the end of last year: 10 billion euros have been spent on improving purchasing power, through the cancellation of the fuel increases voted for 2019, the revalorisation of the activity premium or the abolition of the increase of the CSG for pensioners receiving between 1200 and 2000 euros of pension per month. [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] These measures have been in addition to those already adopted since the beginning of the quinquennium, and I would like to point out that, during the first two years of our mandate, taxes have fallen more than in the last fifteen years. This has enabled the French to regain oxygen and confidence in the future. Indeed, the idea that the standard of living in France will deteriorate within a year has fallen sharply in public opinion: the proportion of French people concerned about such a deterioration has decreased by 15 points in a few months. At the same time, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has announced excellent news, not only in terms of improving growth, but also in terms of falling public spending and the public deficit, a first in ten years. However, these good results must not lead us to relax our efforts. As the great national debate draws to a close, we must more than ever listen to our fellow citizens and translate their legitimate demands into reality. In order to take into account the economic and social urgency and to provide concrete solutions, it is now necessary for all actors to engage with the Government and national representation. For this reason, the President of the Republic has, inter alia, requested the supplementary bodies to enable each person to terminate his or her health supplement contract at any time, after a year of effective contract. It is in this context that the bill is being considered this afternoon at the initiative of our colleagues in the Republic Group. The aim of this text is simple: to allow all our citizens access to a complementary quality health care and to guarantee them reasonable pricing practices, through a virtuous competition. Have we done everything in our power to regulate the tariffs charged by complementary health organizations? Do the criticisms already heard at the stage of the examination in committee point to insurmountable obstacles? Will we allow these pricing practices to flourish as our fellow citizens demand more fairness? The answer to all these questions is obviously no. However, the situation is of particular concern: consumers have experienced an impressive inflation of their contributions, which have increased by more than 50% since 2006. While this inflation may be due in part to the increase in health expenditures, it remains unacceptable that the management costs of complementary agencies could be so much increased. Indeed, a structural trend has been observed since 2010: the increase in management fees twice as fast as the amounts of reimbursements made to insured persons. Complementary organisations spent €7.2 billion in 2016 for their management costs, representing 20% of the contributions. Of this total, more than €2.8 billion was spent on acquisition costs, including advertising. The rate of French people with complementary health care is 95 per cent, and we welcome it. However, this is a significant expenditure in their budget, which averages €688 per year and can reach up to €2,500 for a couple of seniors. A reduction in the rates for health supplements would therefore represent a significant increase in purchasing power for our citizens, but it would also lead to a significant improvement in access to care. Indeed, medical deserts are not the only obstacle to access to health care for the French: many of them also give up treatment for financial reasons, because of an overly high burden, often the result of insufficient supplementary coverage. Improving purchasing power and access to care: as we see, the stakes of this text therefore go far beyond the mere competition of complementary health care organizations, and should therefore bring us all together, regardless of our political sensitivity. However, when we examined the text in the Committee on Social Affairs, we pointed out that it was necessary for this possibility of terminating mutual agreements to go hand in hand with greater legibility of the guarantees proposed in supplementary health contracts, so that our citizens could choose their mutuals with full knowledge of the facts. This readability of supplementary contracts is an objective to which the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has always been committed, and we had already called for this important development in the consideration of the latest draft law on the financing of social security. In this regard, we welcome a provision introduced in the Committee on Social Affairs to replace the annual information currently given by insurers with information on the redistribution rate of contributions collected, by category of contracts, which will be a better indicator of the performance of the supplementary body. The possibility of comparing the guarantees offered by the various health complementary bodies, through simple and legible criteria, will be the key to sound competition, which is conducive to lower tariffs. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement fully supports the objective of the bill. However, we regret that Article 4 differs in the application of its provisions from 1 December 2020. In our view, this tends to weaken the scope of the text, by putting at risk, in the name of the anticipation of the measure, of a sharp increase in tariffs in 2019, which no form of competition could moderate. We will therefore propose the deletion of the provision in question. We hope that this change of common sense will be endorsed by our colleagues in the majority group. It is a matter of giving full meaning to the bill, which the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement enthusiastically supports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u176	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u177	The text we are discussing this afternoon, proposed by the majority group La République en marche, aims to include in the law the principle of termination, free of charge and at any time, of supplementary health insurance contracts, after a period of one year. I, in turn, go back to the method that your government has used, Madam Minister, because it is not such as to restore confidence in parliamentary democracy: after you abandoned introducing these provisions by amendment as part of the PACTE bill, you have had this bill tabled by your parliamentary majority. This method, as I have already said, is probably clever, because it exempts you from an impact assessment. However, it would have informed our debates: we could have measured, better than through completely questionable surveys and with little scientific virtue, the real impact of the decision you intend to make. You have taken the wrong habit of proposing, at the turn of an amendment, measures which disturb and have not been evaluated or refused in the framework of the consultation. Remember the review of Mr. Blanquer's law a few weeks ago: we witnessed the creation, at the turn of an amendment, of public institutions of basic knowledge, which worry school principals. Similarly, your use of orders will become extremely worrying because it deprives us of high-quality parliamentary debates. I wanted to say that because we are at a time when political representatives are particularly disqualified. But you don't do much to reduce this fracture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u178	What did you do?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u179	I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to an unprecedented fact. This text is rejected quite massively, not only by different groups in this assembly, but also by a part of your majority. For the first time, Members of the La République en marche group, members of the Social Affairs Committee, have tabled amendments to delete the articles, and no fewer than ten of them have finally withdrawn their signature from the text presented, which is a sign of their unease. This morning, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we examined the new amendments tabled for the public sitting. I welcome the fact that the committee has adopted amendments from our colleagues in the UDI-Agir Group, which tend to limit the application of these provisions to two years, as well as an amendment from the MODEM Group, which aims, if I am not mistaken, to make the information provided by health supplements more readable by standardising the information notices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u180	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u181	However, I am not naive, and the people who look at us must know: if these amendments were adopted this morning, it was because it was very short-lived that the opposition was more numerous than the majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u182	It's not very classy to report it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u183	I have no doubt that, unfortunately, you will be restoring in the coming hours, as it should be, the content of your project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u184	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u185	We shall vote against this text, as we have done in committee, for three main reasons, which have already been put forward by one or the other. Firstly, the text is based on a liberal logic that we do not share. In your opinion, competition would be good in itself – in explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, I gave you a contrario example, on which everyone agrees – and competition would lower health prices. In our view, this competition is mainly likely to set aside the most fragile and undermine our system of intergenerational solidarity. To justify your choice, you rely on the measures taken in the area of home and motor insurance under the Consumer Act 2014. However, the text was about consumption and certainly not about health, which is not consumed. Secondly, the text equates complementary health with a common consumer good, with a single logic: that of the cost/benefit balance that is made for oneself. No reflection has been made on the current logic of solidarity. With your actions, there will certainly be tomorrow the right risks, which will be well taken care of, mainly for the benefit of managers, and the bad risks, which will be little covered. Finally, you do not answer some fundamental questions. Those most in need of additional health care, the elderly in the first place, are covered by medium-range contracts. The amount of contributions increases when you retire. Rather than proposing more competition and liberalism, you could have thought of other avenues, such as a modulation of the tax on health supplement contracts according to the age of the insured. It would have taken time to carry out more in-depth work, to listen to all the stakeholders and to organise a genuine consultation with the actors. But the truth is, you didn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the French and French have reminded us, during the great national debate, of their deep commitment to our solidarity and intergenerational system of social protection. I'm afraid we're doing exactly the opposite with the choice that you're leading us to make now. I asked the question earlier: will access to care be improved by the measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u186	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u187	No. Will the prevention policy be strengthened by your proposal?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u188	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u189	No. Will solidarity between the adherents, which constitutes the very soul of the mutualist system, be better guaranteed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u190	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u191	That's not the case. Will age inequalities be reduced?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u192	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u193	That's not the case either. [[Smile]] Pierre Dharréville often cites great authors in this rostrum. For my part, I will report the words of my grandmother: "What is cheap is expensive. I think this is particularly true in terms of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u194	Mine said the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u195	Maybe we had the same grandmother, Mr. Dufrègne, that's to check!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u196	I was raised to raw milk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u197	[[Smile]] Mine said, "When it's blurred, there's a wolf! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u198	If the focus was on purchasing power, i.e., on how to reduce health spending in the household budget while ensuring a high level of care and care, there were many other topics to be explored. We could have considered, for example, the creation of a health shield – perhaps we will have an opportunity to discuss it in the coming months. This would be to replace the current system of long-term illnesses with a universal treatment scheme of 100 % where the health expenditure borne by the insured person exceeds a certain threshold. To that end, we could have relied on the proposals put forward by Patrick Brillet and Bertrand Fragonard, which date from 2007 but remain very relevant. Such a health shield would have several interests. It would first provide an additional social safety net for insured persons who do not benefit from the LFA scheme and are not affiliated with a supplementary health insurance scheme. In the interest of all households, it would then allow, in accordance with your request, a clarification of the market for health supplements, or even a reduction in their price. It would also make it possible to simplify, now indispensable, the mechanism of the rest in hospital. It would finally offer a new lever for managing the expenditure; This is an essential point, because the provision of LDAs, which represents about two thirds of the amount of the ONDAM, is virtually unmanned, even though I know you have sought to strengthen a number of indicators in the context of the bill that you have just defended, minister. I could also detail the very real redistributive effects of the health shield. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LT groups]] As we think that the reflection is a little short, and the debates are a little hasty, the answer will not be up to your aspirations, namely to lower the cost of care in the household budget while providing them with a high level of protection, reimbursement and care. That is why the Socialist and related groups will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u199	[[At 18:10, Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u200	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u201	This afternoon we are looking at a proposal for a law defended by the Republic on the move, which is modelled on the scheme provided for by the Hamon law for home or motor insurance contracts, and whose purpose is to protect insured persons more by giving them more freedom in choosing their supplementary insurance. We can only subscribe to this ambition, which, moreover, meets the concerns of consumers and insured persons. One should not be unable to pay for the necessary care in the event of a hard blow or to give up care that is too expensive. This is all too often the case for modest people. In the face of the risks and hazards of life, our fellow citizens are asking for more protection. In this regard, the question of the remainder of the health care burden and the coverage of the care they receive are key issues. Since the beginning, especially since the creation of social security, complementary workers have played an important role in the health coverage of our citizens. Compulsory health insurance covers 77% of French medical expenses; complementary health care provides a decisive complement to the coverage rate. These two stages of social support, together with the additions, make it possible to cover 95 % of insured persons, i.e. almost all of the French population. The place of complementary workers in our social protection system is therefore of great importance, and there can be no question of calling it into question or depreciating the quality of the service they render to our citizens. This place was further increased by the law of 14 June 2013, which validated the national interprofessional agreement of January 2013. Under this law, since 1 January 2016, all employees must be covered by a collective contract. This reform has made it possible to supplement the health coverage of employees, but it has only benefited the 25- to 59-year-old age group, that is, the population group that is most often in good health and enjoys the best standard of living. By way of comparison, individual contracts, which mostly concern non-employees – i.e. students, civil servants, pensioners and inactive people – most often provide for less protective care than collective contracts, particularly for fee overruns. In other words, the people who are less well protected from the hazards of life are the ones who would most need to be protected. I am thinking in particular of pensioners, for whom the cost of supplementary health insurance is, as we know, generally higher than for the assets. It is therefore necessary to restore purchasing power to the insured. We welcome this bill, which aims precisely at increasing competition between complementary bodies, which will lead to a reduction in their tariffs, to the greater benefit of the insured and members. It is also a continuation of the existing legislative framework. Since the Chatel Act of 28 August 2005, insurers and mutuals have been obliged to prevent subscribers from not renewing their tacit contract. This scheme was supplemented by the Hamon Act of 17 March 2014, which authorized the termination of the insurance contracts tacitly renewed after a period of one year, without costs or penalties for the insured. In reality, it is often difficult for the insured person, who has only a limited time to go around the market and compare difficult-to-read offers, to terminate his supplementary. The bill will give the consumer more power: he will now be able to compare offers throughout the year, without being forced by too short deadlines, which will change the rules of the game for his benefit. At the same time, this reform will lead to increased competition between complementary health products and, consequently, lower prices. It will therefore be in favour of the purchasing power of our fellow citizens, particularly that of the most modest of them. It should also improve the management of complementary health care. Since 2010, the cost of managing supplementary health care has increased twice as fast as reimbursements and benefits to insured persons, a paradoxical situation described in the Commission's report. The number of organizations has declined sharply in recent years: since 2001, the number of mutuals has been divided by three, and the number of foresight institutions by two. At the same time, the productivity gains made possible by reconciliations have not resulted in savings in management costs. This should not lead to a deterioration in the quality of insured persons' health coverage. We must be particularly vigilant on this point. The basic principle must be that the insured person chooses his health supplement with full knowledge of the facts. It would have been wise to conduct an impact assessment of the measure. The use of a bill has allowed you to avoid this constraint, which is regrettable for the clarity of our debates. It would also have been welcome to seek the opinion of the Council of State. In our view, improving the readability and comparability of the guarantees offered by complementary health care is both the major challenge of the reform and the condition for its proper application. Our citizens today do not have reliable and standardized tools that allow them to easily compare the offers and guarantees offered by the organisations. This is a very unfortunate situation, when the supplementary health insurance bodies have repeatedly committed themselves to improving the transparency and readability of their guarantees. In particular, I am thinking of the joint declaration on the commitment of good practice on the readability of guarantees of complementary health care, signed in October 2010, so nearly ten years ago. On 14 February, the federations of complementary bodies signed a new document providing for the harmonisation of the presentation of their contracts, with a view to better informing their insured and members. This commitment, which goes in the right direction, is not legally binding and does not concern all the players in the sector. On this subject, we welcome the adoption of an amendment in committee to entrust the Supervisory and Resolution Authority with the drafting of a report to assess compliance with the additional guarantees. I will propose that this be supplemented by two amendments to include a re-visit clause with an evaluation of the reform. This would allow real-time assessment of the effects of the implementation of this bill, which would be used as an impact assessment. The majority of the IDU, Action and Independent Group will therefore vote in favour of this bill, which will facilitate access to health coverage for our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u202	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u203	This afternoon we are considering the proposal for a law on the right to terminate health supplement contracts free of charge. This text, sponsored by the La République en marche group, aims to give insured persons – individuals for individual contracts, companies for collective contracts – the possibility to terminate health-related supplementary contracts free of charge at any time after the first year of subscription. This simplification measure will give the insured more freedom. It will enable them to benefit from increased competition in supplementary health coverage. We therefore present here a powerful measure of purchasing power, favourable to all consumers. Indeed, while inflation is partly due to the increase in health expenditures, it is not acceptable that the management costs of the complementary agencies should flow in parallel. Since 2010, these costs have increased twice as fast as reimbursements to insured persons – they have increased by about 30% and 15% respectively. Freeing consumers from the constraints of their commitment, after a year of contract, will allow them to compete and turn to the most virtuous and responsive proposals, which will reduce premiums. The freedom to terminate is not the enemy of solidarity between insured persons. The proposed legislation does not call into question the current pooling of risks. The logics of individualization of health risk, mainly based on age, have indeed been generalized for several decades, even though termination was forced. Freedom of choice will not change this dynamic. It will preserve the logic of solidarity between insured sick and healthy, at work today. Similarly, there is no risk of increasing insurance nomadism or opportunistic behaviour. The insured do not change health supplements out of pleasure but out of necessity, when their contract is too expensive or becomes unsuitable for their needs. In addition, termination at any time will only apply after twelve months. It will therefore not be possible to make sure only for a few weeks, the time to perform pre-emptive care and then to terminate his contract. This red cloth had already been agitated during the advances of the so-called Hamon law, particularly with regard to borrower insurance. Since then, we have seen that the "demutualization" of risks has not taken place, while margins, and hence tariffs, have fallen sharply to the benefit of all, including those at increased health risk. This text also includes solidarity measures, particularly with respect to our elders. Older people, who pay the highest health contributions, will be the great winners of the reform. The current restrictive termination conditions are particularly unfavourable to them. They are the ones most subject to sudden increases in contributions from individual contracts, and because many of them are not familiar with new technologies, it can be difficult for them to find a new contract in the time allotted today, which is now twenty days a year. The potential savings for pensioners are massive. A study conducted by the association UFC-Que choix has highlighted that, with equivalent guarantees, a couple of pensioners of seventy-five years old, residing in Bordeaux and wishing a high-end guarantee, will be offered rates ranging from 387 to 501 euros per month, i.e. a potential savings of 30% and an annual purchasing power gain of 1370 euros. A sixty-eight-year-old pensioner in Paris, who wants basic guarantees without being minimal, will find similar guarantees, the price of which will vary from 98 to 119 euros per month, i.e. a possible savings of 18%, corresponding to more than 250 euros of additional purchasing power per year. Termination at any time also ensures protection for consumers who are victims of the stalling. Recently, the Supervisory and Resolution Authority and the Autorité des marchés financiers have highlighted the extent of practices that specifically target older people. These trends are also reflected in a number of disputes handled by specialized associations. Consumers can then find themselves with double coverage, in other words, double costs and the loss of huge amounts of money every year. To enable one of the two contracts to be terminated is to give the possibility of ending an anomaly. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In the light of these various elements, I call on you to support the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u204	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u205	This bill must allow the termination of health supplements, free of charge and at any time, after one year of contract. For information, I would like to point out that in 2016, the amounts paid for health insurance contributions amounted to EUR 35.9 billion. This possibility to terminate the contracts was requested by President Emmanuel Macron at a meeting last December with mutuals, insurance and foresight institutions. In the midst of the crisis of the yellow vests, it was a question of asking them for gestures in favor of the purchasing power of the French. While this simplification measure already applied to car and home insurance policyholders since the adoption of the so-called "Hamon Act" of 2014, the federations of complementary health care had always opposed it, seeing it as a false good idea, harmful to insured persons. This demonstrates the strength of the lobbies of health supplement organizations and their rejection of competition, even though some of them are mutuals. This may lead us to wonder about mutualism, a great idea to French which illuminated the beginning of the 20th century but whose current reality raises many questions. The proposed simplification will give policyholders more freedom and allow them to benefit from increased competition in supplementary health coverage. The measure shall apply "to contracts concluded or tacitly renewed from a date provided for by a decree in the Council of State, and no later than 1 December 2020". The Executive initially planned to set this deadline on 1 January 2020. As we know, the French are waiting for us on the question of purchasing power. They're waiting for us today, not tomorrow! A century or a millennium is good, they think, but what is happening today is also important. That is why I will vote in favour of the bill. [[Smile]] Madam President, I note that I have not yet used all my speaking time, which, I admit, is exceptional. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to return for a moment to the issue of mutual societies. Our country, at the origin of so many social advances, invented the spirit of mutualism, which no one had thought of creating until then. We must now ask ourselves about the mutuals and cooperatives in view of the mission they had originally assigned themselves and the respect for the commitment of so many volunteers who campaigned to live this particular spirit. In any case, Madam Minister, this debate shows that, although we have so often faced other issues, what I regret is that good will, which may not be in the spring, is a major contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u206	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u207	The proposal for a law on the right to terminate health-related supplementary contracts free of charge is the subject of real support from the French. With a view to modernizing our health care system, there seemed to be a need to address the gaps in the complementary health care sector. We can make several observations. The steps currently needed to terminate its complementary health care are of great complexity and do not allow citizens to freely choose their contract. Twenty days: this is the time that insured persons have to take notice of the new rates and take steps to change the supplement. According to FIFG, 75% of the French consider that the current conditions for termination are binding. The current market, based on 50 per cent collective contracts and 50 per cent individual contracts, mainly uses the margin on individual contracts to fill the gap in collective contracts. Additional costs have increased by EUR 2.50 per person per month for the past six years, while repayment times are still as long. Moreover, since 2010, management fees have increased much faster than reimbursements to insured persons. Price increases for mutual benefits increased by 4% in 2018 and by 20% in 10 years, without this being explained in a transparent way. What exactly is it? The clear objective of the proposed law is to enable an insured person, after twelve months full of coverage by a supplementary body, to terminate his contract at no cost and without being disturbed by the period during which he chooses to proceed. Collective contracts can thus be renegotiated by the employer and terminated after 12 months. However, the issue is more important for individual contracts. Under the proposed law, every citizen covered by an individual contract will be able to take the time to compare the different services and prices offered by the complementary bodies and then choose to pursue or terminate his or her own contract. The main challenge of the text is to give the citizen his or her free will for the choice of his or her complementary health, based on the price but above all on the quality of the services provided by the organizations. Indeed, a citizen who is satisfied with his or her complementary health will have no interest in changing his or her body after a year. Last week, FIFG accounted for 94% of French people in favour of this reform. Complementary organizations now cover 97% of French and play a major role in access to care. There is no question of changing this coverage rate, or of disrupting this sector. On the contrary, the gaps in the system must be addressed. We are fully convinced that this bill will benefit the French as well as the complementary bodies. Allowing termination after 12 months will necessarily involve competition on this market. In addition to lowering prices, competition will lead the agencies to modernize their practices, requiring them to offer services more in line with the needs of insured persons, but also to increase the readability of contracts, as part of the continuity of the space agreement signed on February 14 between the Minister and the complementary federations. Competition will also drive organizations to save money, particularly on their management costs. It will initiate a modernisation of the system with a view to digitising the rights of insured persons. The argument of the possible "demutualization" of risk is lapsed in the light of the rule of law. Indeed, the current regulatory framework prohibits medical selection, and no selection of fragile populations is possible. In addition, mutual societies are the bodies that provide the majority of the pensioners or persons in fragile situations. By allowing them to take part in competition and modernise their services, we offer them the opportunity to reach a younger, less risky audience, which means that the system can be further pooled. Allowing an infra-annual termination will not result in automatic termination after 12 months, but it will be an additional guarantee for the insured who can judge the satisfaction of his contract. The argument about opportunistic behaviour is not valid since it is in the interests of the citizen to be assured, certainly at the best price, but above all on the best conditions. Note that it is already quite possible to terminate the contract after a year, on its anniversary date Therefore, opportunistic behaviour is not intended to increase. Finally, allowing infra-annual termination is only a fair right of free exit for citizens, who are currently in a situation of captivity in the face of bodies whose functioning remains opaque and difficult to understand. This bill is therefore in favour of greater transparency. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Access to care is an opportunity, a fundamental good to which all of us are attached. Health is not a good like any other, many have reminded us of it during the preparation of this bill. We certainly agree, and it is with this statement in mind that we are trying to change a system that is still too far from the expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u208	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u209	The first speaker on Rule 1 is Mr Guillaume Chiche.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u210	The purpose of this article is to establish the possibility of infra-annual termination of a health supplement contract with an insurance company. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this proposal for a law applies equally, without distinction of any kind, to all bodies offering complementary health care, whether they are insurance banks, foresight institutes or mutual societies. However, there are many differences between these categories. They are even major because their respective characteristics do not in any way meet the same economic model or the same objective: if the bankinsurers remunerate shareholders for profit, the mutualist non-profit organisations organise with their surpluses the pooling of the risks of the members, obviously comply with the prudential requirements related to the risks, carry out preventive actions and build medical-social institutions. I wanted to make this clarification because I fear that the same level of health and consumer goods will be applied in this debate, as was previously compared with supplementary health insurance or housing insurance. The mutualist dynamic organizes solidarity between those who benefit from care expenses higher than their contribution – often people over sixty-five – and those who benefit less – usually young people, who are less exposed to the risks. However, if young people can individualize their risks by turning to the cheapest complementary health care and offering the least extensive coverage, usually offered by bankers, our seniors, who are covered for 75% of them by a mutual, will not do so because they want to get good health coverage. The planned measure will have the mechanical effect of depriving our seniors of an equalization of solidarity between the young insured and the senior insured, which will automatically result in an increase in their contributions. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] For these non-exhaustive reasons, I will support an amendment to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u211	Mrs Valeria Faure-Muntian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u212	I welcome this text and congratulate the majority on placing it on the agenda. However, I wanted to raise a small technical issue that worries me a bit about teletransmission. I recall that an organization that wants to use it for a new client cannot do so until the former insurer has disconnected. I fear that the possibility of infra-annual termination will increase this kind of difficulty, albeit purely technical, but likely to harm the members of the mutual societies, by extending the transmission of health records. I would like to know, Madam Minister, whether it would be possible to resolve the problem of teletransmission which may arise when the old mutual society moves to the new one, so that all members can benefit from a rapid change in their file and thus from a refund of their care as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u213	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u214	If I hear the eminently positive arguments – in theory – that an insured person can terminate his health supplement contract at no cost and at any time after the first year of subscription, I would like to share with you, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my concern and propose a path for reflection. I believe that we need to be vigilant with regard to those of our fellow citizens who, not being genuine enlightened actors, could become victims on socio-economic grounds. If the liberalization of the market for complementary products is not problematic everything else equal, it risks becoming a trap for the most modest French and French people by applying to the detriment of their health. Therefore, as elected Alsatian, I must mention here the specificity of the local health insurance scheme in Alsace-Moselle because it could serve as a platform for reflection for the whole of our territory. The local scheme provides a supplement on benefits in kind covered by the general scheme close to 100%. Against a low financial effort of insured persons, this system offers better benefits, thanks to a very low structural management cost. In this model, there is no risk of non-coverage of employees, which is indeed a guarantee of access to the healthcare system for all users. Without implying, however, that the system of Alsace-Moselle should be extended to the whole of the national territory, I believe that the idea of market liberalisation, which is not to be rejected in principle, must nevertheless be accompanied by a minimum of constraints for complementary measures, which are synonymous with rights guaranteed for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u215	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 1, 9, 16 and 28, to delete Article 1. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u216	It seeks to delete the article which opens the possibility of infra-annual termination of contracts with insurance companies in the field of supplementary health care. I would like to point out that, at present, insured persons may already change their supplement, not once a year as I have heard, but twice in the event of a delay in the call for contributions. The disadvantage of this article, and more generally of the proposed law, is to encourage complementary health care, in particular those proposed by the bank insurance sector, to question the principle of non-selection of risks by selecting the insured persons who present a good one, i.e. a low-cost risk, in order to propose differential rates according to the state of health of each person. The risk is thus taken, if not to introduce, in any case, discrimination related to the supposed state of health of the persons, in this case the insured persons. This contravenes the very essence of the French prudential model, which would then abandon itself to the "let go, let go" of the market economy. While I share the original objective of the text, that of giving back purchasing power to the insured and more generally to the French and French, this provision is clearly a false good idea which will have a direct negative impact on the most fragile insured, resulting in an increase in their supplementary rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u217	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u218	I'll be short to not be redundant with what Guillaume Chiche just explained. We do not share the philosophy of this bill, knowing that this colleague of your majority, too, doubts the merits of this reform and fears a market selection according to the good and bad risks, which will always make victims among the same. Our group cannot support such a bill. Hence our deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u219	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u220	Health is not a good like any other; It is an exceptional asset for each and every one of our fellow citizens, which justifies a greater framework of competition in the sector in order to ensure that risks are covered for all. The principle of mutualisation of risks, on which health mutuals are built, ensures solidarity, particularly intergenerational. Increasing competition between the players in the sector would encourage the individualisation of risks. The potential gains in purchasing power put forward to justify this bill seem to me to be short-term, as increased competition could favour promotional offers for the simplest populations to cover, which would have a detrimental effect on others. In addition, it is worth recalling that the non-market services of general interest rendered by mutuals – 7300 prevention and health education actions deployed each year throughout the national territory – will be challenged by increased competition between actors. [[MM. Guillaume Chiche, Pierre Dharréville and Boris Vallaud applaud]] I do not want in France, one day, Amazon to become the leader in complementary health care; I believe more in the mutualistic model than in the model of unbridled competition. That is the meaning of this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u221	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u222	The argument put forward for the introduction of this bill, that of purchasing power, does not stand up to the analysis for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u223	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u224	First, if you really wanted to act on the cost of contributions – stabilize it or at least moderate its increase – you could, for example, give up the various taxes it has added to the PLFSS, as some mutualists are calling for. At the time of the presentation of the text, Madam Minister, you recalled that there is a fine analysis to make of the increase in the costs of complements. If they increase faster than ONDAM, it is also because it is artificially compressed and, from year to year, it does not change to the same level as the increase in health expenditure – I would point out that the latter increased by 4.5% while ONDAM only increases by 2.5%, i.e. a two-point hole. Secondly, if the costs covered by social security increase, it is not because the supplementarys would not do their job – you did not say that – but it is because, among other things, of the largest number of DLAs, due in particular to the ageing of the population. These costs could be analysed more accurately, but I do not believe that the proposed tool will address the issues that we could eventually recognize together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u225	The rapporteur, Mr Dominique Da Silva, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u226	First of all, I would like to reiterate the criticism made to us, particularly by our colleague Boris Vallaud, of the absence of an impact assessment. And yet it does exist: it is that of Bill Hamon, which, you don't mind, dealt with supplementary health insurance. I read you a first passage: "This legal context is not alien to the low termination rates encountered in the auto insurance sectors (16%), home multi-risk insurance (12%) or individual health insurance (17%). A little further on, the study refers to the "forced (or perceived) nature of the main insurance contracts (automotive, home-based or complementary health insurance)". You have heard: it is written in the impact study of your then majority for the future Hamon law. It also states: "The measure should allow for an increase in purchasing power for the consumer, who will no longer be obliged by the time limits to compare insurance contracts and will therefore be able to move towards the cheapest contract with equal guarantees, at any time, subject to one month's notice, starting from the thirteenth month of performance of the contract. This paragraph refers to a footnote which states: "The current average premium for car insurance is about 500 euros, that for home multi-risk insurance and a health supplement is 200 and 700 euros respectively. This study exists; just read it – or read it again. Secondly, I have noted what my colleague Guillaume Chiche said about selection by the right risks, but I am sorry to have to remind you that today, bad risks are worth and are far more profitable than good risks, and that collective contracts are generally in deficit, while individual contracts, especially those held by the 75% of pensioners who are members of a mutual, are surplus. More specifically, for mutuals, it is respectively less than 5 billion on collective contracts and more than 2.2 billion on individual contracts. If there is a problem of "demutualization", that mutuals are already beginning to properly pool their own customers. And then, as far as taxes are concerned, I would remind our colleague Dharréville that the TSA – the additional solidarity tax on complementary products – finances the CMU – universal health insurance – and that it is therefore very useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u227	So, in your opinion, it's the mutuals that fund CMU-C and ESA?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u228	In any case, they finance CNAM's missions of general interest. Stop pretending that there would be, on the one hand, the kind mutuals and, on the other hand, the bad insurers: this is not true! This is a competitive market, which must be accepted as such. Moreover, as I have already said, this remains an optional complement. For many insured persons, it is important to have the opportunity and choice to join the supplement which suits them, otherwise it is called compulsory health insurance, but this is not the purpose of this text. I therefore express an opinion against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u230	The rapporteur's arguments are excellent: that is why I will simply add to the risk of demutualisation. I do not see how the ability to terminate a contract two or three months earlier than the usual date would favour demutualization, while it remains prohibited for insurance to recover health data, as this could lead to a choice between good and bad risks. From the moment the rules remain unchanged and the deadline for termination is changed only, the demutualization argument is not admissible. I have also heard Mrs Faure-Muntian's request, as well as the question of the paying third party. For the latter, access to online rights requires the accessibility of dematerialised information. That is why we have chosen that the law come into force late in December 2020, as this will be necessary to develop these tools and make them accessible everywhere. We will also support an amendment by La République in progress aimed at developing online rights interrogation services before the entry into force of this text. We have therefore taken fully into account the issue of the operationality of the measure: it is a major condition for it to be a real step forward for the citizens. That the paying third party be applied in a simple manner by all the professionals concerned is an objective that is an integral part of this bill. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u231	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u232	Mr rapporteur, to your comment on collective contracts which would be in deficit while individual contracts would be surplus, I would like to reply: yes, quite! This is the economic model on which both mutuals and insurers rely and which is, for solidarity purposes, to achieve equalization between the ranges that offer surpluses and those that do not. That is why speaking, as you do, of the bad risks that would represent a lot of money is inaccurate, because equalization helps to cover the risks and care needs of other insured persons. Madam Minister, with regard to the risk of demutualization, the purpose of this bill is precisely to open up the complementary sector to competition and to allow insured persons to change it: this is what is written black and white in the explanatory memorandum, and this is the aim of an infra-annual termination. Like insurers and welfare institutions, mutual societies are economic players in a competitive market. In fact, organizing insured persons' nomadism is of economic interest, because it is a matter, in this competitive market, of capturing as many insured persons as possible. This will result in advertising: all of us in this Chamber have experienced it with the telephone operators who call the subscriber and propose that he terminate his contract in his place – I believe that this is what the text provides for. However, these stalls represent a management cost that economic actors foresee, provide and pass on to the price of the complementary ranges offered to the French. The aim of this text is thus to introduce more competition and to allow much more mobility, hence the risk of demutualisation. Pensioners and persons over sixty-five years of age, whose health risks are highest, will not change health supplements every six months, first because they lack technical capacity and knowledge, but also because they will not seek the least-so-called complementary. In particular, they will not look for insurance products already offered by the Bancassurance as supplements to ten euros per month that supplement additional offers, in fact surcharges allowing, for example, to have an individual room in the hospital when you are ill. Pensioners and those over sixty-five years of age who are in need of health coverage will suffer from this demutualization. People at lower risk will be able to choose significantly cheaper products and be much less covered. I therefore maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u233	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u234	If it reflects the desire to allow competition in this sector, the main objective of this bill is obviously to restore to all French people freedom of contract drafted in such a way as to make them captive in a certain way. Today, we rely on the fact that the insured person will not be able to terminate his contract on time and will keep him for another full year, thus smoothing the costs for him over several years. That is unacceptable, and that is why this bill has to be. With regard to demutualization, I stressed in the general discussion that elderly and vulnerable people are currently the largest portfolio of mutual societies. It has been said that they will suffer from this text, while mutuals realize benefits thanks to them! I don't see what the risk to mutuals would be. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, we talked about additional guarantees and additional guarantees. However, many vulnerable or elderly people are victims of telephone chatting and are tied to their feet and fists with complementary and extras. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that they gain freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u235	We must, in fact, limit the telephone stalling!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u236	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u237	Mutuals are non-profit organizations: their function is not to make profits and they reinvest the money from contributions in the reimbursement of care, in prevention and in social works. In this regard, I note, Madam Minister, that you have not answered the question of funding essential activities in our country and in our territories. You tell us that some insured persons are captive: in addition to being able to terminate every year, we should debate the meaning of this captivity and ensure that, far from being mere consumers, they are truly engaged, as I explained earlier in the gallery. Moreover, it is not up to the competition to do the police: to make them less captive, you would have to regulate, and you do the opposite, you deregulate! The path you take offers no solution to the problems that you yourself have raised. My last point concerns the fact that banks, because they have multiple activities, have data that allows them to select potentially interesting customers to develop a product or offer. Actors will deploy aggressive offers to potential insured persons declared solvent. We have referred to the problem of telephoning: with this text, it is likely to develop even further, including with regard to fragile audiences. So I think we're driving in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u238	Mr Laurent Pietraszewski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u239	I would like to add to the remarks made by the rapporteur and by our colleague Julien Borowczyk. If, as I wish, this text is adopted, mutual societies will have to be asked to question the amount of their management and customer acquisition costs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I share the opinion of our colleague Pierre Dharréville on the mutual world and on the fact that these companies reinvest their profits in the well-being of their customers and the service they offer them. It would be useful for them to question the amount of their customer acquisition costs and the advertising costs they incur, which amount to more than EUR 2 billion per year. Doing so would be a matter of good management, on the part of people who claim to be part of the mutual world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u240	Mr Dominique Da Silva, in support of Amendment No. 95, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u241	It aims to simplify and modernise the arrangements for notification of termination of insurance contracts by the insured by putting in place four simple principles. The first is that these terms and conditions are, at the option of the insured, the sending of a letter, a message on durable medium – which may be an email or an online form – or a statement to the insurer or his representative made at the head office. The second, which the addressee confirms receipt of the notification in writing, by means of his choice. The third is that the contract provides for alternative means of notification in addition to these legal arrangements. Finally, the fourth principle is that, where the insurer proposes the conclusion of the contract by means of distance communication, the termination of the contract must be able to be notified by the insured by the same means of communication. Thus, where it is possible to conclude an insurance policy by e-mail or through the website of an insurer or broker, the insured person must have the possibility to use the same method of communication, by e-mail or online form, to terminate the contract within the time limits laid down by law or the policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u242	I have before me two identical amendments, No 20 corrected and 49. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 20 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u243	It is intended to add to the insurance code a paragraph excluding from the scope of the right to terminate infra-annual contracts entered into with one or more bodies recommended under the conditions of Article L. 912-1 of the Social Security Code. The amendment also intends to incorporate the type of contracts directly into the law. Indeed, the reference to a future decree would open the possibility for the regulatory power to target, either in the forthcoming decree or in a subsequent decree, other categories of contract such as heavy foresight, whereas this is not the object of this text. In order not to distort the ambitions set out in this text, it is therefore necessary to aim specifically at the reimbursement of health costs. The concept of personal insurance used in the draft law is too broad and should therefore be avoided: it concerns other types of insurance contracts than the only contracts intended for the reimbursement of health costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u244	The same amendment, No 49, by Mrs Corinne Vignon is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u245	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] I shall begin by thanking the representatives of the cleanliness industry, whom I know well, for having forwarded their amendments to the Members sitting on all the benches of this House. On 13 June 2013, the Constitutional Council censored, in the name of freedom of undertaking and freedom of contract, the clauses for designation by branch agreement of a single complementary body. As a result, the branches of industry can now only recommend one or more complementary bodies. By dealing differently with the possibilities of termination of contracts, on the pretext that they were the subject of a recommendation by the branch concerned, inequality of treatment and a limitation of free competition unrelated to the object pursued would be introduced. The proposed law would then be capable of being invalidated by the Constitutional Council. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u247	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u248	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u249	The Hamon law of 17 March 2014 provides in particular for car and home insurance contracts that the right to terminate at any time a contract takes effect one month after the insurer has received notification from the insured. The Commission proposes to extend this period until the end of the following month – potentially to two months – for all insurance contracts, and not only for those concluded in the field of health. The measure adopted in committee therefore amends the provisions of the same Hamon law for contracts falling within its scope, i.e. also non-health insurance contracts, to impose a period of time to take effect later, and therefore less favourable to insured persons. However, the termination mechanism provided for in the same law is working well: there is therefore no need to extend the time limit. Such a measure would be unfavourable to the insured persons concerned by the termination of a car insurance contract or a borrower insurance contract. Therefore, for all these reasons, you are proposed to return to the effective date that was originally included in the proposal, i.e. one month after the insurer has received notification from the insured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u250	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u251	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u252	It is true that, on my initiative, the Committee on Social Affairs has extended the deadline for termination to the end of the month following its notification. This included facilitating the collection of contributions due, in particular on the payroll or bank account, at the time of termination. Such a provision would indeed extend the time limit in force for car and home insurance. We have sought a solution that is both simple and understandable and it seems to me that coexisting several termination regimes, and therefore several delays, would bring more confusion and difficulties, than a time limit adapted to the case of complementary health care alone. I therefore support the amendment: it is better to remain within the existing time limit of one month. As the committee did not consider the Government's amendment, I express a favourable opinion on the amendment in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u253	One, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u254	Amendment No 77 by Mr Dominique Da Silva is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u255	Mr Dominique Da Silva's Amendment No 78 is an amendment of drafting precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u256	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 60, 84 and 85. I call Mr Becht to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u257	He proposed that collective and compulsory branch contracts should be excluded from the scope of the provisions of the draft law for two reasons. The first, which you have just given, Mr rapporteur, is that collective contracts are, unlike individual contracts, in deficit. To increase competition, and therefore to introduce pressure to lower costs and thus to lower margins of collective contracts, would be to take the risk of further weakening them and thus endangering their existence. The second reason is the very nature of these business contracts. In fact, companies observe special procedures and deadlines for informing their employees in the event of changes to these types of contracts, which are difficult to reconcile with the one-month period. These reasons, as in fact the guarantees already provided for in the 2013 law in respect of these same contracts, support the exclusion of collective and compulsory branch contracts from these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u258	Amendment No 84 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended. Amendment No 85 by Mrs Corinne Vignon is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on this series of identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u259	Since this is the same subject as the one that was discussed earlier, it is unfavorable. We cannot both be for greater mutualization and stand aside from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u260	But that is what should be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u261	I call Mr Kamardine to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u262	We have always been taught, on the benches of the faculty, that inequalities, such as discrimination, are not good companions of the Republic. The Mahorais, like all of us here, aspire to the same right of access to health. That is why I ask you, Madam Minister, to explain the eyes in the eyes of the national representative why you are refusing access to health for all of the Mahorais. Why do you regard them as French entirely apart? Why do I say that? Because I allowed myself to ask you, on July 27, 2018, when Mayotte would benefit from the complementary universal health insurance, the CMU-C. To explain this delay, you invoked in your answer the difficulties related to the civil state, while they have been settled since 2008, and, with regard to the deployment of the Vitale card – while as of 30 December 2015, more than 20,000 Vitale cards were distributed in Mayotte – those related to the certification of social security numbers. I also realized that President Hollande had said, on behalf of the government of the time and of the state – which commits him in the name of the continuity of this one: "I have asked that the rights to health be recognized here in Mayotte, that the Vitale card can be launched here too, so that everyone, each, can access the care in the same way as everywhere in France. There will be a time when universal health coverage will also have to be extended to Mayotte. » Why, then, is such a delay? Can you tell us, with your eyes in the eyes and in front of all the French, why do you regard the Mahorais as entirely French? They also aspire to access to health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u263	Like the others. All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u264	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We hope that the CMU-C can also be extended to Mayotte, because it is a right. When you are in an irregular situation in metropolitan France, you have the right to access health, but when you are a social contributor in Mayotte, you are not entitled to it. How can such inequalities be accepted? That is the meaning of our question: we obviously want a precise answer from national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u265	Very well, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u267	Dear colleague, as part of his action plan for the future of Mayotte, the Prime Minister announced on 18 April 2018 that the social affiliates will be exempt from the moderating ticket, i.e. from remaining charge, a mechanism for the introduction of the CMU-C. Moreover, there is no link between the progressive approximation of the social legislation applicable to Mayotte and that applicable in metropolitan France and the possibility of terminating a supplementary health insurance contract more easily, bearing in mind that the entire insurance law, including the Chatel and Hamon laws, is already applicable to Mayotte. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u269	First of all, I would like to reassure our Mauritian citizens: it is clear that they could benefit from this provision of the bill, because they could benefit from additional health contracts tailored to their needs under better tariff conditions. It is therefore a real advantage, which they would benefit like all other French citizens. You are also asking the question of the CMU-C in Mayotte: this is another debate. Today, you know that we need a number of prerequisites to develop it on site: we must first deploy the Vitale card and make the civil state and the control of resources reliable. Similarly, the question of the application on the island of the additional solidarity tax which finances the CMU-C will be raised. If we are working on it today, we have, while waiting to be able to introduce the CMU-C on the island, introduced the free care in the city as well as in the hospital for the insured with modest resources: it will apply as of May 1, 2019. This provision was adopted as part of the Social Security Financing Act for 2019. As a result, our low-resource Mauritian citizens are already left out of hospital care as well as city care. [[MM. Borowczyk and Pietraszewski applaud]] The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u270	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u271	Madam Minister, I must confess that we do not understand each other, because the objective of this bill, in any case that of the reform undertaken through the Social Security Financing Act to which you have referred, is to achieve in the long term that every social insured person pays on average, under the CMU-C, about EUR 1 per month. You are talking here about the treatment of the remaining balance, while at the same time referring the Mahorese patients, in particular the social insured, to the private or liberal sector that is not developed in Mayotte. So there is really a problem and the solution is not to answer us: we have made the health access system free for all. It is already difficult to have access to a doctor, and when it is, it costs more to the Mahorai social policyholders – even if they are resource-tested – who already pay than to their metropolitan counterparts. It is clear, therefore, that the preferred solution is always to treat completely apart from the Mahorai social insurance, which, again, we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u272	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u273	However, I would like to point out that the Mahorais, regardless of their resources, are now accessing hospital care without any remaining burden, which means that they do not pay for the hospital: it is still an important effort. I would also remind you that the hospital in Mayotte is not currently charged at activity pricing, the T2A: it receives a global allocation. Every effort is therefore being made to ensure that Mahorais have the remaining costs as low as possible and have easy access to care, despite the difficulties in terms of resources and care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u274	We come to the speakers in Rule 2. Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u275	I want to point out very quickly that the increase in contributions is linked to the increase in benefits. While expenditure on health supplements is increasing, of course, contributions are also increasing. For example, the 2.5% tariff increase in these same supplements followed the 2.5% increase in ONDAM. While in ten years supplementary insurance rates have increased by 38%, which is very important, health care costs have at the same time increased by 40%. I would like to remind you that we voted in our consideration of the last Social Security Financing Bill to increase the additional solidarity tax. This tax, however, weighs on health supplements. Moreover, our rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, Olivier Véran, did not fail to point out, at the time of the examination of the PLFSS, that this increase was likely to weigh above all on insured persons: the increase in this tax, by destabilising mutuals, would have disastrous consequences on access to care as well as to complementary care. That is why I am warning you in my turn about the effects of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u276	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u277	I will refer here to the welfare institutions, which are, I would remind you, not-for-profit and joint-management organisations. It is imperative to take into account the specific nature of collective contracts, the fruit of the social dialogue organised both upstream and downstream of their conclusion. These contracts create efficient and fair solutions, particularly in terms of prices, as they enable the expectations and needs of employers and employees to be met. It should also be noted that collective contracts organise a mutualisation at the branch or company level. Based on intergenerational solidarity between the members, they are incompatible with any measure that would encourage the individualisation of risks. The introduction of a right of termination at any time will upset this ecosystem by weakening collective contracts. Under the regulatory obligations of the Solvency II Directive, the right to infra-annual termination will necessarily impose even higher provisions on the provisioning institutions, which will, of course, weaken the balance of contracts. [[MM. Pierre Dharréville and Guillaume Chiche applaud]] Finally, we cannot forget the role of foresight institutions in prevention, at the heart of our public health policy, but also in social activities. We are certainly facing an economic and social emergency, but I am not sure that this bill is the best response to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u278	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u279	I am against this article, as with all the others, because it visibly does not meet the objectives set out by the rapporteur, namely to free up purchasing power for the most fragile French people. We are dealing with a subject of health, solidarity, social rights and the right to health. This does not appear in any of the articles before us. I'm sorry. Ensuring better access to care by making it less expensive – because better covered – is essential, and this does not appear anywhere in the text. I also regret this, especially since we have voted here, in the context of the Social Security Funding Bill, beautiful things in favour of health for all: I am thinking of the CMU-C contributory, which replaces the CGA – aid for a health supplement – or the "100% health". Finally, these measures were intended to reduce the remaining burden for the largest number of people. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Guillaume Chiche also applauds]] I fear that this bill will favour the well-bearers, according to a logic of individualization of risk, to the detriment of fragile people, who will not be in a position of strength to negotiate an efficient and cost-effective complementary health. What assures us that things will not go in the way I just said?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u280	We come to the amendments to the article. I have before me three identical deletion amendments, Nos 2, 10 and 29. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u281	This amendment is intended to delete Article 2, which allows for an infra-annual termination of contracts with pension institutions. As I was able to explain earlier, this article will question the very principle of pooling risk between insured persons and undermine their purchasing power. Beyond this, however, it will pose a practical problem of operationality. In a pharmacy, an insured person presents his Vitale card, but also his mutual card, in which case he no longer has to present it for a year. In case of a change of health supplement, if he does not present his new card, this will generate industries, especially in the implementation of the paying third party. In the face of the resulting complexity, pharmacists, healthcare professionals, will be able to refuse to apply the fee-paying third party. In addition, the time taken into account for the change of mutual care, in particular by teletransmission, will be reduced for the insured person to fill out paper care sheets in order to be reimbursed. As you know, the repayment period, with a paper transmission, can be up to two, three, or even four months. Some households cannot afford such a cash outflow. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It seems therefore risky to argue for an increase in purchasing power: in practice, some of our fellow citizens may be plunged into even greater precariousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u282	I call Mr Regis Juanico to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u283	This text is based on a assumption that our group is challenging: competition would be good in itself. According to your explanatory memorandum, "this simplification measure will allow insured persons to benefit from increased competition in supplementary health insurance [...]. The improvement of competition is primarily to the benefit of the purchasing power of the insured". The possibility of cancelling its health supplement contract at any time would therefore lead to lower tariffs. Yet, in terms of health, this competition is mainly likely to set aside the most fragile and undermine our system of intergenerational solidarity. I would point out that not only the mutual sector, but also the trade unions and patient associations, all the actors, and by that I mean, reject these measures and have made it clear. Even France Assos Santé expressed its concern about them by recalling that they could lead to disruptions of care. To justify your choice, you rely on what has been done in the context of the Consumer Law of 2014, known as the Hamon Law, in the area of home and motor insurance. But this law, which we voted here, was about consumption. Health, on the other hand, is not consumed. You reduce the complementary health to a common consumer good, with only logically the cost/benefit balance for yourself, without any reflection on the logic of solidarity that prevails today. With your measurements, tomorrow there will be the right risk, mainly for the most favoured categories to which your text will benefit, and the bad risk, which will be little covered. These measures respond to a liberal logic that equates health with a market like any other. That is why the Socialist and Related Group opposes this, and here calls for the deletion of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u284	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u285	With this bill, you start from the assumption that increased competition will result in lower prices for health supplements. We disagree with this analysis: free competition has never shown its effectiveness in meeting social needs. On the contrary, it exacerbates inequalities and, in most cases, results in higher prices. [["Oh! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Above all, promoting free competition suggests that health can be regarded as a consumer good as another or as a commodity. So your matrix is the commodification of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u286	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u287	We cannot subscribe to this philosophy, which turns our backs on the mechanisms of solidarity between insured persons and weakens our social model. You had the opportunity, in 2017, to introduce the generalization of the paying third party. You made the opposite choice. Now you rely on the invisible hand of the market. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] We cannot follow you in these choices, especially since periods without insurance may increase for a number of our fellow citizens. For all these reasons, we call for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u288	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u289	I will not go back to the arguments already made on Article 1: they remain the same for the welfare institutions. I shall limit myself to three specific remarks. First, collective contracts account for 88% of the health care provision institutions' activity. They are negotiated and concluded by companies, and their renegotiation rules make it unlikely that the termination rate will rise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u290	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u291	In addition, pension institutions have some of the lowest management costs, ranging from 12 to 15 per cent, compared to mutuals – 19 per cent – and insurance companies – 22 per cent. They offer the best return on contributions: from 85 to 88%, to mutuals – 80% – and insurance companies – 75%. They are very competitive and therefore have everything to gain from stimulating competition. On the other hand, welfare institutions are, as has been pointed out, non-profit organisations; As such, they can take market shares from insurers, which must compete and generate profits. For all these reasons, I suggest that these amendments be withdrawn; Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u293	Above all, I want to reply to Mr Dufrègne, to whom I cannot let say that we would abandon everything by the large invisible hand of the market. There is no question here of a health market, but of the market for complementary bodies, whose management costs are difficult to regulate. The latter, as we know, have increased steadily in recent years, in higher proportions than the costs of health insurance and ONDAM. It is therefore difficult to make insurance contracts readable for our citizens: it is also the meaning of the agreement signed on the occasion of the first "100% health" monitoring committee, which will allow to compare the contracts proposed by these bodies. Beyond this measure, we intend to put some pressure on complementary bodies, in terms of how they are managed, in order to put an end to the constant inflation of costs, including management costs. These costs, it was said, differ significantly from one organization to another: they are lower for welfare institutions than for mutuals, and lower for mutuals than for insurance. The challenge we must address is therefore regulation, transparency and readability. All this is part of good practices that can improve access to the care of our citizens: far from "producting" health, it is a question of making it accessible to all French people, by improving readability and predictability. The aim is to reduce their spending on complementary health care so that they do the best possible service at the lowest cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u294	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u295	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] I really wanted to answer to you, Mr Dufrègne, on this argument of the invisible hand of the market: it seems to me to be unwelcome, on a text that aims only to restore purchasing power to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u296	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u297	I am sorry to insist, but I would really like to know what provisions are in place to ensure that the measure is operational. No impact assessment has been carried out on this bill, which is being considered under accelerated procedure, and it must be implemented in the short term. I would therefore like to be able to explain to our fellow citizens who benefit from the paying third party how things will happen when they change their complementary health. How will they do it when the transmission is done in paper form? This will mean cash outflows for them, which we have often heard in the great national debate launched by the President of the Republic that they cannot afford. After the 20th of the month, some people no longer know how to fill their fridge. What is the answer to them, if they benefit from the paying third party and, more generally, they will be subject to two, three or four months' repayment periods?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u298	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u299	I accept Mr Chiche's comments on the procedures imposed on any insured person who leaves an insurance company or mutual fund: if he does, it will not necessarily be to go to another. Will a compulsory receipt specify that this person is no longer insured? Is she told that she has a certain period of time to enter into a new contract with another insurance company? Indeed, some times may be difficult to manage for some of our fellow citizens. I therefore consider it essential to answer questions concerning the effectiveness of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u300	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u301	I would like to bounce back on what has been said about the paying third party and the operationality – the possibility of reading rights in real time. As I said in committee, there is no lack of stinging that it is a liberal general practitioner who proposes to favour the paying third party. In any event, I have tabled an amendment aimed at creating a digital platform to read the rights of insured persons in real time, which goes even beyond the current possibilities. This solution is much more operational and the dematerialized management is more suited to what one can expect in the twenty-first century. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, let us not let France Assos Santé say what it did not say: we have heard its representatives and, like those of consumer associations, they were very supportive of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u302	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u303	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the basis of Rule 58(1), Madam President, on the proper conduct of our exchanges. Mr Borowczyk, you have tabled an amendment which we will have the opportunity to discuss earlier and which entrusts to the National Union supplementary health insurance bodies – UNOCAM – a new mission that it is not in its nature to carry out: to check that mutuals, bank insurances and pension institutions keep a file that lists all persons in the paying third party, so that all healthcare professionals can...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u304	This is not a point of order, honourable Member, but a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u305	In keeping with my point of order, it seems to me that this amendment was based on another amendment tabled by the rapporteur aimed at making the creation of this file compulsory, but which has been withdrawn, so that Mr Borowczyk's amendment becomes moot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u306	I shall put the deletion amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u307	I have before me three amendments, Nos 21, 51 and 62, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 21 and 51 are identical. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u308	It is essential that mutualisation be preserved, because it allows, for example, in the cleanliness sector, Mr rapporteur – he does not listen...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u309	No, he's not listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u310	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u311	That was nice, Mrs. Bourguignon, don't get mad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u312	No, that wasn't nice. There's no kindness here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u313	It was friendly, Mrs. Bourguignon! Don't worry, there's no problem with the rapporteur, it was just a wink!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u314	"Madam Chair of the Commission"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u315	[[Approval on the benches of the LR group]] The mutualisation allows, I said, to guarantee equal treatment between employees and companies in the branch in the event of a conventional transfer; to establish a social fund, in the name of a high degree of sustainable and efficient solidarity; and to avoid "coverholes", especially for multi-employer employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u316	Mrs Corinne Vignon has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u317	It seeks to add to the Social Security Code a paragraph designed to exclude from the scope of the right to terminate infra-annually contracts entered into with one or more bodies recommended under the conditions mentioned in Article L. 912-1 of the Social Security Code. The amendment also aims to incorporate the typology of the contracts in question directly into the law. The reference to a future decree would allow the regulatory power to refer, either in the forthcoming decree or in any subsequent new decree, to other categories of contracts, such as heavy foresight, even though this was not the subject of this bill. In order not to distort the ambitions set out in the text, a specific aim should be to reimburse health costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u318	I call Mr Becht to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u319	My arguments are the same as those of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u320	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u321	The same as in Article 1, for the same reasons, since it is always a matter of differentiating occupational branches. Unfavorable opinion, therefore, out of consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u323	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u324	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u325	I am sorry to contradict you, rapporteur, but the arguments that you are referring to are not those that were used to defend these three amendments. The aim here is, for clarification purposes, to provide a number of clarifications in the law, in particular in order to avoid the issue of heavy foresight. In short, this has nothing to do with the argument set out in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u326	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u327	I maintain my unfavorable opinion: this is really the same argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u328	The Minister has the floor to support the Government's amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u329	The Hamon law of 17 March 2014 provides, in particular for car and home insurance contracts, that the termination of the contract allowed at any time takes effect one month after the insurer has received notification from the insured. As in Article 1, the Commission wished to extend this period until the end of the following month. We propose that you reconsider this measure, because it amends the provisions of the Hamon Act for contracts within its scope, i.e. outside the scope of health care, which will delay the taking into effect of their termination and will therefore be less favourable to insured persons, e.g. in the case of car or home insurance contracts. This amendment has the same purpose as that of the Government that you have adopted in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u331	As in Article 1, the committee has not considered this amendment, but I personally support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u332	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u333	On the basis of the arguments already developed in Article 1, but applied here to the code referred to in Article 2, it seeks to simplify the procedure for notifying the termination of the contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u334	The rapporteur's amendment No 68 is drafting. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u335	Wisdom, because the social security code uses the only term of "denunciation", where the insurance code speaks of "abandonment": it is in the name of the readability of the different codes, which requires respect for the specificities of each type of organization, that we are dubitative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u336	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. First of all, Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u337	Article 3 seeks to open up the right to infra-annual termination for supplementary health insurance contracts with mutual societies. I would therefore like to remind you once again of the singularity of mutual societies. They are the first actor in non-profit care, without shareholders or distribution of dividends, and pursue only one objective: the organization and structuring of health risks in solidarity. Some like to report that they make surpluses – some even talk about profits. As far as profits are concerned, that is not true; As for surpluses, it is true: they allow them to finance various schemes, including medical and social institutions and services. The French Mutuality deploys several thousand, 2600 to be exact: 217 mutualist EHPAD, 100 home nursing services, 156 institutions and services for people with disabilities, 350 early childhood mutualist institutions, 515 mutualist dental centres, 368 hearing centres, and I pass. In short, these actors contribute to the territorial health network in our electoral districts. Proximity, quality of care, solidarity between insured persons, general interest: these are all the values of the mutualistic model that this bill risks calling into question. That is why, on this article as before, I will defend an amendment to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u338	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u339	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u340	The text of Article 3 will have consequences for both citizens and healthcare professionals. It is first of all the paying third party that is involved: health professionals will no longer accept it for fear of an unpaid one, if the costs are advanced to a patient who may have changed mutuals; Citizens will therefore have to incur all the costs, which will affect the most fragile of them. Secondly, in the absence of intergenerational solidarity, mutuals will have no choice but to calibrate contributions by settling on the oldest mutualist population, which is the most exposed to health expenditure. Seniors are the ones who have the most to lose, because they now benefit from intergenerational solidarity mechanisms, which may no longer be the case in the future. Third, hundreds of organizations will enter into competition, which will lead to a widespread inflation of communication and marketing costs, so that instead of paying back their members, mutuals risk investing in expensive commercial artillery. Would the solution to restore purchasing power not be to review the taxation paid by insured persons on supplementary health insurance contracts? It is known that, for every 100 euros they pay in order to protect themselves from health hazards, more than 14 euros go into taxes, as for everyday consumer goods, and are in addition to operating costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u341	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u342	With regard to Article 3, I had proposed, in order to take concrete action on the purchasing power of the French – the posted purpose of the text – the portability of a collective contract to an individual contract at no additional cost. But my amendment, not specifically on the termination of health supplements, was not put to the debate. While I understand that, taking note of the new jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council concerning legislative riders, Rule 98 of our Rules of Procedure is used more often, I regret that in this case, and I would like to take this opportunity to alert my colleagues so that we can define rules for the implementation of this Article that are clear, impartial and shared by all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u343	You're going to have a hard time, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u344	I also proposed, which was also considered to be a legislative cavalier, that an evaluation report should be submitted concerning Article 1 of the Act on the Safeguarding of Employment, known as the ANI Act, making it compulsory for companies to propose additional collective measures. My speech therefore aims to alert you so that we can think together on how to amend our texts more easily.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u345	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u346	While I welcome the ability to terminate a supplementary health insurance contract at no cost and without administrative complications, I regret that the possibility of infra-annual termination is not the subject of an up-to-date serious impact assessment, in an area as sensitive as that of health. I would point out that the economic model of mutual societies is based on the principle of solidarity between members. This philosophy of mutualisation is a particularity which seems to me incompatible with the individualisation of the risks induced by the proposed measure. Moreover, the effect on the purchasing power of the French would not necessarily be positive because the risk is that with this measure market players will be strongly encouraged to increase their advertising costs. On the other hand, an increase in administrative management costs could also be expected due to more entry and exit. The first actor in complementary health care, with 35 million protected people, the first private actor in prevention and health promotion, the first provider of non-profit medical and social care, the mutuals intervene throughout the health journey, from prevention to care. They are full players in the health system. Indeed, with their care networks and partnerships with health professionals, they actively contribute to improving prevention with nearly 7300 prevention actions per year across the country. They also work to develop the paying third party and care networks and thus to improve access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u347	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u348	It is therefore to be feared that non-market services of general interest rendered by mutuals will be affected by increased competition between players. I would therefore like further clarification on the consequences of the entry into force of such a measure. If I do not be reassured, I shall vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u349	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u350	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u351	I, too, wish to warn you, Madam Minister, of the preservation of the French mutual system and of the risk that you will put it at risk. Mutuals are not-for-profit partnerships that organize solidarity within their group. Mutuals offer a health insurance contract with a price, while health insurance offers a price, often exceeding that of health. However, the effects of competition will pose a great risk to mutuals who will not be able to align themselves with prices: they will have very little or no room for manoeuvre. How are they going to cope with the rise in health spending by seniors due to access to new and more expensive care?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u352	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u353	The presidential commitment was strong and focused on the readability of the contracts for complementary health care and this is indeed the real problem, because the most important one is to understand his contract. This bill is interesting in that it can win purchasing power for our fellow citizens – I think mutuals are armed enough to defend themselves against insurance. However, as in the case of motor insurance, I would like to have guarantees that the actuaries have not appealed for a health information statement in order to be able to calculate the risk and therefore the amount of the premium. We must also look at how to protect the most fragile. Imagine someone whose account is out of print. His banker therefore offers him a less expensive but less good insurance, won't the customer be encouraged to subscribe to it? We will therefore propose an amendment to ensure the readability of contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u354	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u355	Mr Isaac-Sibille has just referred to the risks of dumping and I will not go back to it – but they seem to me to be very real and that is why I felt that access to care can be hampered by the measures we are examining. We should not be able to make a profit on health, which is a right. And if I listen to each other's interventions, I think we may be more numerous than I thought to share this conviction – if that were the case, it would be good news. When we look at the actors of the complementarys, they are not all equal, from this point of view, the objective of some of them being precisely to make profits. Among the arguments put forward on management fees and the use of contribution money, I am fully committed to transparency. All this therefore deserves consideration: do not make a decision without knowing more precisely the reality of the sector in question, including in its various segments. Transparency is necessary, I repeat, and indeed, even if one can criticize them in various aspects, mutuals are a democratic movement with democratic management, which seizes the health issues to try to respond to them, the decisions belonging to the mutualists themselves. Transparency can also go through bodies of this nature, and it is therefore this approach that needs to be strengthened. Our colleague Pietraszewski spoke of advertising and the money that would be invested in questionable lines. I inquired about my own mutual: 0.2% of its budget is devoted to advertising. But the device you are proposing will encourage advertising practices to resist aggressive business practices – so it is not in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u356	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u357	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u358	I would like to provide some information on our work with the complementary agencies. In particular, during the follow-up committee, we had a great deal of discussion with their representatives on management costs. Some have explained that 20 per cent of support missions are sometimes counted as management costs, while those are preventive missions. We are committed to working with insurers throughout 2019 in order, precisely, to make the difference between what is accounted for in management fees and what is really due to the support functions stricto sensu and functions consisting, for example, of calling to promote prevention among insured persons. This work, which is under way, will allow us to know who is doing what and what part of the management costs is really related to the tasks of the complementary body and what is related to the support functions that would be too important. That is in response to Mr Dharréville's desire for transparency. I therefore hope that before the end of 2019, we will be able to decipher a little better the causes of the increase in management costs in recent years. Mr. Dufrègne mentioned earlier the risk that some, by terminating their contract, might no longer be insured. This is a good question already! When someone cancels an insurance contract on January 1st...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u359	What if he terminates it two months earlier?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u360	Resiliating it two months earlier does not significantly increase the risk. With an amendment voted by the committee, the insurance that will be contracted by the insured person who wants to change insurance will make it easier to terminate the insurance by taking care of it. The text therefore provides an additional guarantee that the insured who terminates his contract will apply to a new insurance which will help him to do his job, a guarantee which does not exist today when it comes to termination on a fixed date. The text may increase the risk a little, but it also reduces it as a result of this amendment adopted at the meeting. In any case, I do not think that those who proposed the termination of a contract on 1 January had been concerned about whether there was a risk of not being insured – a risk which, I repeat, does not increase significantly if their contract is terminated earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u361	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 3, 11 and 30, to delete Article 3. On these amendments, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u362	The increase in management costs is naturally caused by the fact that insured persons will change their health supplements and go from one organization to another in a much more recurrent way than before. In passing, I would point out that the legislator does not itself fix the amount of management fees or the pricing of complementary ranges: this is the responsibility of the market. Economic actors, in a competitive market, who will organise the search for new insured persons will invest and therefore pass the amount of these investments on to their tariffs. The purpose of this amendment is to delete the article. I do not have anything to reassure the French in their daily lives about the fact that, when they change their health, the time of the introduction of teletransmission, the paper care sheets will be used for the refunds that will be expected for two, three or even four months – which, I repeat, is unbearable for many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u363	Amendment No 11 by Mr Boris Vallaud is being defended. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u364	This amendment, simply to delete Article 3, illustrates the consistency of my positions. I would add this argument to the risk of relaunching a debate: after having compressed social security expenditure, we should not now focus on reducing the expenditure of mutuals, which could have harmful effects on the health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u365	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u366	I hear the demand for solidarity and mutualism – we all share it. Now mutuals don't have to worry about competition because, unlike insurers, they don't have to make profits and they have a good benefit-to-contribution ratio. Competition should therefore not be unfavourable to them, on the contrary. Mutuals will have every interest in applying mutualisation between their own customers, since, I repeat, collective contracts make them lose 275 million euros a year, while individual contracts, particularly for the elderly, make them gain 281 million. In other words, the less well-insured pay for the better insured and those who pay the least. For all these reasons, in addition to the arguments put forward during the examination of the first two articles, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u367	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u368	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u369	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u370	I agree with you, Mr rapporteur: mutuals do not have to fear competition. Not-for-profit organizations, they are already operating in a competitive market. It is the insured, the French, who must be afraid of it, since it will have the direct consequence of increasing the pricing of the ranges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u371	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 3, 11 and 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u372	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 49 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 13 Against 36
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u373	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-27-O1197.u374	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for a law on the right to terminate health supplement contracts free of charge; Discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate, to simplify, clarify and update company law. The meeting is adjourned.
