ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2187, 2243).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u2	On Friday, 4 October, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the draft law, ending with amendment No. 191, which added article after article 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u3	Amendment No 191 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u4	Because of the time programmed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u5	Mr Jean-François Eliaou, rapporteur of the special committee on the bioethics bill, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u6	This amendment refers to the pre-implantation diagnosis with HLA typing – the DPI-HLA. He proposed to repeal article L.2131-4-1 of the Public Health Code, which was devoted to him, and to draw up an inventory of the placental blood bank. The DPI-HLA was introduced on an experimental basis in 2004, and confirmed in 2011. Over the past nine years, twenty-five couples have been involved and nine children have been born, five of whom were HLA-compatible; Three transplants were performed. This does not, therefore, concern a large number of couples. Since 2014, this practice has ended in France. The last centre to practice it is the Antoine-Béclère Hospital in Clamart. I had initially considered that this article should indeed be repealed, but having considered the arguments put forward by the Minister for Solidarity and Health in a special committee, I am now convinced that it must be maintained. Indeed, it concerns a number of pathologies: not only Fanconi anemia, but also sickle cell disease, which is relatively frequent, or thalassemia. In some cases, there is no brother or sister HLA-compatible, thus a compatible tissue group, which is the only way to treat these patients. Moreover, the removal of this article would automatically lead to difficulties in caring for families through social security – some go abroad, especially in Belgium, to follow this type of treatment. This shows that there are still cases to be dealt with. Finally, the last reason why I am not in favour of deleting this article – and I will come back to it later in an amendment that I propose – is that it would allow women's and men's-women's couples to obtain, by IVFs not too numerous, but repeated, embryos that meet the two criteria: to be without genetic mutation on the one hand, and to be HLA-compatible on the other. However, I am convinced that this type of treatment could again be carried out in France, and I am sure that the medical teams, at least those who are specialised in this field, will be able to resume this activity. All these reasons lead me to give an unfavorable opinion on this amendment and then to propose an amendment that will remove certain measures or precautions that prevent the proper application of this procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u7	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u8	I had spoken during the debates in the special committee on this technique. I would like to deliver an opinion of wisdom, a little different from the position I had taken in committee. This technique concerns very rare diseases for which only the bone marrow transplant offers a chance of healing. These bone marrow transplants, when performed with compatible voluntary donors, are less effective than transplants made from compatible siblings. The technique of DPI-HLA is therefore aimed at a few children a year, for whom it is known that the bone marrow transplant is an absolute indication, but also that no transplant technique will be as good as a transplant from a related donor of siblings. The reason I give a wisdom opinion is that it has been at the heart of my professional activity for years. I therefore feel that I do not have the necessary hindrance to be able to give a clear free and independent opinion on this issue. I prefer to rely on the wisdom of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u9	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u10	This setback that you do not have, minister, we will have it even less than you, because we do not have your professional practice. It is therefore with great caution that we approach this issue of IPR-HLA, also known as double IPR or "baby medicine". The argument of highlighting the small number of cases is not admissible. In the field of bioethics and ethics, we are sometimes led to legislate on particular situations, as was the case on the subject of transfers of post-mortem embryos. We sometimes spend a lot of time on these situations, while other times, on the contrary, we spend much faster on more important subjects, which concern tens or hundreds of thousands of people. But it is also the purpose of ethics to devote time to such subjects. I would then add that the argument that if this is not done in France, it will be done abroad, is not an argument. We condemn the so-called ethical dumping. The French ethical exception must be maintained. The real question is related to the potential effectiveness of this method, which is found, but that it is necessary to compare the use of an embryo – thus, in the long term, of a person – as a means and not as an end. This technique will place the weight of the healing opportunity of another child on this individual. That's why she's reticent. The subject, as you point out, minister, refers to the wisdom of everyone. There is no good answer to this solution which seems desirable, but which uses a means which is less so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u11	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u12	I would like to go back to one of the points you mentioned, Mr Breton. I did not say that because it is done abroad, it should be done in France. I have indicated that this technique is being practiced in some centres, particularly in Belgium, but this does not mean that this should be done automatically in our country. I am simply saying that this could be done in France, provided that there is no inconsistency by supplementing Article L.2141-3 of the Public Health Code – which I am proposing in the amendment I tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u13	You're going backwards!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u14	I would add that this amendment, of which Mrs Genevard is the first signatory, raises another important point, which needs to be discussed. It recommends that the banks of placental blood units be developed very significantly, in order to maximize the chances of having units compatible with these children who are born with diseases and do not have a compatible brother or sister in their families. This idea makes sense. Unfortunately, given the very large variety of these tissue groups, the chance of finding two unrelated but compatible individuals in the population varies, depending on the specificities, from one in one million to one in ten million. The increase in the number of placental blood units would therefore not necessarily make it possible to find those units that are compatible with the children concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u15	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u16	I have arrived too late to support my amendment: please excuse me. I take advantage of the wisdom expressed by the minister to speak in the debate, although I do not have the same scientific knowledge as the rapporteur. It is a question of designing a brother or sister donor, free of disease and as compatible with the child as possible. So we're talking about baby medicine. The term is already strange in itself. It is a matter of planning the arrival of a child for the sole purpose of treating his ill elder. Mr. Breton pointed out that this principle could be challenged from a legal point of view, because it raises the question of the status accorded to the child: it is no longer considered as a subject of law in its own right, but as an object of law, since it is designed for the purpose of caring for another child. Beyond this legal challenge, a scientific challenge is emerging. According to a report published by the Senate in 2008-2009, the cord blood bank network and the diversity of units stored today are such that "all patients undergoing cord blood transplants find a graft compatible." I therefore believe that we have an opportunity to put an end to this scientifically and legally questionable practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u17	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u18	The baby medicine is calling. It is true that, in front of a sick child, one is always deeply helpless and one measures the suffering of the parents who would like to find a solution at all costs. Nevertheless, there is also a real ethical dilemma between several interests: that of the child to be cared for and that of the child to be born. In this case, the principle of the dignity of each person must prevail, which must exist for himself, without being a means for another. The child must be welcomed for himself, not for the other. It is our role as legislator to fix this ethical barrier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u20	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u21	I would like to shed some light on this debate. We're talking about baby medicine. However, I believe it is necessary to re-establish the reality of these families. They are couples whose child is sick; Sometimes the first, sometimes the second. Some of these diseases are developing very slowly, such as Fanconi's disease, which evolves over ten or fifteen years and which the child declares late. These couples may have other children. They then enter a pre-implantation diagnostic procedure – IPR – to have a second or third child. They do not conceive a baby drug: they are families that have a sick child and, as part of their parenting project, have other children, with selection of the genetic anomaly by IPR. Because transplants work much better – I insist – within the same family than with any other transplant performed with a voluntary donor or placental blood, they are offered at the same time, with the selection of an uninfected embryo, to check for HLA compatibility. Out of four embryos, there will be one sick and three healthy; On these three other healthy ones, there is one in four chances that one of them will be compatible. In fact, this represents three out of sixteen chances, although statistically, the probability of having an unmet and compatible embryo is considered to be between 10% and 15%. We're talking about baby drugs, but these families are mostly part of a parenting project to design another child. In the context of this parenting project, during which the IPR is carried out, they are proposed to further seek compatibility so that this child can possibly save his brother or sister. It seems to me important to bear in mind that these are not children specially designed to save the other baby. On the other hand, Mrs Brocard, a placental blood transplant is only partially compatible in most cases. This does not give the same results as an intrafamilial transplant, which is fully compatible regardless of the tissue group, whether it is a placental blood transplant or a donor. I wanted to clarify this point before your vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u22	That's a very wise way to go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u23	On Amendment No 1596, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u24	It seems to me that it has fallen, Madam Chair: it is a modality of the DPI-HLA, which we have just deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u25	Could the committee confirm that, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u26	These two amendments – that of Mr Touraine and my amendment No 2177, which was identical – fall in fact, since they referred to Article L.2131-4-1 of the Public Health Code, which we have just repealed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u27	As these are fairly technical subjects, it is good to have the opinion of the specialists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u28	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 323, 553 and 1890. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 323.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u29	This amendment aims to ensure that prenatal screening and pre-implantation diagnostic policies are evaluated, as these screenings, if they reflect the desire to programme everything, to avoid all the inherent frailties of the human species, may lead to a logic of making babies zero defect. It is essential that we prohibit any eugenic practice, especially since very strong temptations exist in the majority and among its supporters. It is important to reject it categorically.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u31	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 553.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u32	These amendments are intended to ensure that the National Ethics Advisory Committee – CCNE – is consulted every three years on these issues so that they can be the subject of a genuine parliamentary debate. If, as we are told, science progresses very quickly, it is all the more important for Parliament to be able to deal with it. The legislator cannot simply let things go without saying: this too is a matter of ethics. We have repeatedly pointed to the so-called "less ethic" of this bill. It is because we reject this drift that we defend these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u33	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1890.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u34	Defended, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u35	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u36	I understand the meaning of your amendments, but this subject falls within the competence of the Biomedicine Agency, which devotes an annual report to these issues and has already carried out an in-depth study on prenatal diagnosis in 2007. We will consider an amendment to devote another study to pre-implantation diagnosis and prenatal diagnosis when the law is enacted. While I recognize the importance of such follow-up, the NCCE does not seem to me to be the most appropriate agency to allow us, as parliamentarians, to regularly monitor this type of practice. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments, otherwise I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u37	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u38	He's unfavorable. The NCCE's expertise relates to ethical and societal issues: this body is not at all designed to assess public policies, which are not within its mandate, and it does not have the means to assess them. The members of the CCNE were not chosen from this perspective. To report on the manner in which public policies are conducted and on their results falls within the competence of the health agencies in charge of these subjects, in particular the Agency for Biomedicine. That is why I am against your proposal to entrust this new mission to the CCNE.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u39	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You are right, Minister, that we wish to entrust this new mission to the CCNE for a very simple reason: we want it to be assured in the most independent way possible. That the Government wants its policy to be evaluated by a body that is not independent is understandable, but it is precisely because we do not agree with it that we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u41	On identical amendments Nos 781, 1597, 1729 and 2437, the Republicans, the Democratic and Related Movement and the UDI-Agir and independent groups have before them a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. On Amendment No 1812, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. These five amendments, Nos 781, 1597, 1729, 2437 and 1812, can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 781, 1597, 1729 and 2437 are identical. Mr Philippe Berta has the floor to support Amendment No. 781.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u42	I would first like to say that I agree with my colleague Hetzel that we are taking serious scientific decisions for a period of seven years. As a scientist, I repeat, I am not sure that this is very reasonable. For example, I am rather stunned by what we have just voted on the DPI-HLA. I would like to go back to the DPI aneuploidies, or DPI-A, which seems remarkable to me, even if, again, it concerns a little less than 300 couples a year. Let me first recall some of the data that I believe is essential to my knowledge. The human species is characterized by a very low reproductive power, since only 30% of conceptions come to an end. This is mainly due to the presence of early embryonic chromosomal abnormalities, which will increase with age: 23% at age 30, 35% at age 35, 58% at age 40, and 84% at age 45. Every year in France, about 300 couples will have to live a most complex reproductive path, either because they already have a child with a heavy genetic pathology, or because the genetic counseling has made it possible to detect in the family history of each member of the couple a heavy and diagnosable monogenic disease. This complex couple is then offered a DPI, i.e. a pre-implantatory genetic diagnosis accompanying an in vitro fertilization, carried out in five authorized centres, the CHU of Clamart, Strasbourg, Montpellier, Nantes and Grenoble. The aim is to collect, in the very early stages, a cell from the embryo designed in vitro for this genetic analysis prior to its transfer to the uterus. It will be called the simple IPR; It concerns about 4% of in vitro fertilizations. There is – or there was, I don't know anymore – a second, very rare form: the DPI-HLA, which since 2011 allows to avoid a pathology, but also to select an embryo that can treat its elder by a transplant of compatible blood stem cells. The IPR allows the operator only to control the embryo on the only genetic indication in question. However, about 50% of embryos will associate trisomies, in particular trisomies 13, 15, 16, 18 and 21, monosomies, tetrasomies or chromosomal translocations, which will lead in almost all cases to miscarriages. We therefore propose, by this amendment, that the realization of an IPR-A be subject to the consent of both parents, as is the case with other IPRs; leave the parents free to implant an aneuploid embryo or not; limit IPR-A only to non-sexual chromosomes, still referred to as autosomes. The anomalies of the sex chromosomes, Turner in the little girl and Klinefelter in the boy, are "light" anomalies that are now relatively well managed. These little girls will later be able to complete pregnancy with an ovocative gift. I would like to point out, because not everyone knows this, in particular because it was voted in 2011, but it has only been applied since January 2019, that our country makes available to all women at the beginning of pregnancy, if they so wish, a non-invasive diagnosis, or DPNI, made from a few millilitres of the mother's blood, to search for these anomalies of number. It is therefore already a freedom, and I stress this point. In case of suspicion, a control ultrasound will be performed, then an amniocentesis, and finally a medical interruption of pregnancy, each step being of course subject to the consent of the mother, who can at any time interrupt the process if she wishes. Of all European countries, only Albania, Ireland and Luxembourg do not practice IPR. There are only four remaining countries, including France, which do not associate it with the search for aneuploidies. It is now done for Switzerland, but also for Italy, which has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for its practice of IPR leading to abortion, which is now the situation in France. Here we have the opportunity to reduce the number of supernumerary embryos – we need, on average, specialists who say so, 28 oocytes to ensure delivery; to reduce the risk of gemallity by transferring a single embryo, while we are obliged to transfer several of them to hope that one of them will implant, with the risk of having to remove the supernumeraries afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u43	Clarify the risk of gleaminess!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u44	From the moment you re-inject several embryos, you may see many of them come to an end, which is still difficult for the woman to manage! We therefore have the opportunity to reduce the number of abortions, health expenditures, and simply to give a real chance of simplification for such a complex life course, for pregnancies already considered at risk, for these some 300 couples per year. Otherwise, these families would be subjected to infernal chaining: in vitro fertilization with DPI, DPNI, trisomy screening, ultrasound in case of proven risk, amniocentesis and, ultimately, medical interruption of pregnancy. Which couple can we wish for such a course? Let us not forget that disability is one of the leading causes of divorce – the Secretary of State for the Disabled, Sophie Cluzel, has rightly recalled this weekend.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u45	The vision you have of disability is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u46	Reference was made to a clinical research project coordinated by a colleague from Paris, whose content is also unrelated to the problem we are dealing with in the field of IPR. In a very recent article in the journal Medicine/Science, the same colleague states that "in view of the objective of improving the quality of care, the prohibition of IPR-A has become an incomprehensible contradiction, especially since its practice does not strictly add any additional medical action". In the vote that opened the LDC to all women, we were very sensitive to the danger of carrying out such practices abroad, outside our ethical framework and our health control. Not allowing IPR-A would be tantamount to promoting a new form of medical tourism, accessible only to those who can afford it. I will not fall into the pitfall of reporting a personal situation, since we are talking about the general interest here. Be aware, however, that the trisomy – to take only this example – is not just the vision given by the film The Eighth Day, which has been waiting for us all. There is another side, which we may be less willing to face and share – these hidden situations that are discovered in specialized reception homes, where I propose to accompany me every weekend. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I am ready, at any time, to transmit to you the references from the world's largest journals, which I have fed into, but also the contact details of the specialists – who are also colleagues for me – with whom we have been working on this topic for several months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u47	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support Amendment No. 1597.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u48	The excellent explanation Mr Berta has just given will allow me to be quite brief. In response to Mr Breton, I would like to point out that there are many of us here who refuse to accept any form of eugenics. The subject we are talking about here is totally alien to all eugenics: it is only the in vitro reproduction of what nature realizes in vivo. The aim of the amendment is to propose that, on an experimental basis, with an evaluation after three years, the scope of the IPR be extended to include the numeration of autosomes, i.e. non-sexual chromosomes, in order to avoid any discriminatory risk. This numeration of autosomes would improve the success rate of in vitro fertilizations, which is unfortunately very low in France and leads to situations that are extremely painful for women. We could thus avoid repeat miscarriages following certain in vitro fertilizations. The numeration of autosomes would also reduce the production of supernumerary embryos, regretted by each of us. Indeed, if the success rate of in vitro fertilizations increases, it will no longer be necessary to produce as many supernumerary embryos as we do today to repeat in vitro fertilizations. When the pregnancy is completed, the diagnosis of an extremely serious condition, likely to cause the death of the child in its first weeks, leads to the offer of a therapeutic abortion to the parents – which is carried out in the majority of cases. Our proposal is therefore limited to very specific situations and limited indications. When an IPR is made to prevent the birth of a child with a serious illness with a family carrier, the child would also be ensured that the number of chromosomes is satisfactory. The procedure would also apply to couples who have suffered several in vitro fertilization failures, as well as to women who are approaching the loss of fertility and will not be able to undergo repeated in vitro fertilization. I repeat, this experiment would involve very specific situations, for a defined period followed by an evaluation, and would be accompanied by the utmost caution. All professionals urge that autosome counts be allowed under these specific, non-generalised conditions. Once again, it is nothing more than to duplicate in vitro what nature is doing in vivo. Under natural conditions, women, without even realizing it, expel a significant proportion of embryos whose chromosomal anomalies do not allow development. Knowing that in vitro, the selection of too malformed embryos is not done, it is up to IPR-A to duplicate a natural process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u49	Mr Didier Martin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1729.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u50	In addition to the arguments put forward by Messrs. Berta and Touraine, I would point out that the use of IPR-A would significantly reduce the cost to society of all unnecessary and failed procedures simply because medical teams were not allowed to count chromosomes when they were looking for a very specific chromosomal anomaly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u51	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to support Amendment No. 2437.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u52	After the very full speeches by my colleagues, the amendment is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u53	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1812.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u54	With this amendment, we would like the State to allow two establishments to extend the pre-implantation diagnosis on a trial basis for a period of three years, and its implementation procedures are laid down by decree. Today, through a chromosomal analysis, science allows us to know whether embryos are viable or whether there is a risk of miscarriage. However, the law does not permit such analyses to be carried out. Thus, even if only one embryo is viable on ten embryos taken, all of them are intended to be implanted. The current framework of the Bioethics Act of 29 July 1994 on the donation and use of components and products of the human body, on medical assistance in procreation and on prenatal diagnosis allows the practice of pre-implantatory genetic diagnosis only in order to avoid the transmission of a genetic or chromosomal disease recognized of special gravity for the unborn and incurable child at the time of diagnosis. This practice is well framed and has not shown any drift. In the long term, the extension of pre-implantation diagnosis would avoid certain medical interruptions of pregnancy, reduce the rate of miscarriages, promote monoembryonic transfer five or six days after puncture, reduce the rate of gemella pregnancies, improve the success rate of in vitro fertilization, and reduce the inequality of access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u55	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u56	On the form, these amendments aim to propose a three-year trial, based on the model of hospital clinical research programmes, to two institutions chosen by the State from among those approved by the Biomedicine Agency, without this choice being subject to the usual process of scientific selection of peer-reviewing centres. I am somewhat shocked by these arrangements, as they do not correspond in any way to what is currently practiced. Furthermore, the call for national projects, as advocated in these amendments, is inconsistent with the preliminary choice of institutions. In the case of hospital clinical research projects, they should not be limited to two institutions, but should be open to institutions that practice them, in order to achieve a high level of scientific selection and excellence. The choice must therefore not be left to the State. Finally, clause 14 of the bill, which we voted on, already offers the opportunity to conduct clinical research projects. If we stick to the form, then these amendments are unnecessary, because they are already satisfied. There is nothing in the text that we have adopted that prevents pre-implantation embryo research. In the summary presentations of these amendments, it is proposed to extend the IPR, in the search for mutations permitted by Article L. 2131-4 of the Public Health Code, to the numeration of autosomes, i.e. non-sexual chromosomes. Professionals on all sides, whether or not they support the opening and facilitation of IPD-A, agree that chromosomal abnormalities increase with the age of patients. However, in their daily practice, professionals see young women seeking a pre-implantation diagnosis for genetic reasons, such as cystic fibrosis. Because of their young age, these women have a low probability of having chromosomal abnormalities – Mr. Berta has demonstrated this well. The aim pursued by these amendments is therefore not medically relevant – and I stress this point: the legislator must ensure that the provisions which it contains in the law are medically and functionally relevant, in order to provide assistance to health professionals. It is important to distinguish between the different clinical situations, despite the great confusion that prevails today. The only cases where pre-implantation research for chromosomal abnormalities – i.e. aneuploidia – is lawful are repeat miscarriages after in vitro fertilization and foetal losses. That would be the only indication. Let us guard against amalgamating with the IPR aimed at the search for genetic mutations and the risk of miscarriages. The argument that the extension of the IPR would reduce the number of medical interruptions of pregnancy may be justified in extremely specific cases. In this case, however, the situations we are dealing with do not cause medical interruptions of pregnancy but foetal losses, i.e. miscarriages. Therefore, your proposal will not result in a reduction in medical interruptions of pregnancy. Finally, no evidence from around the world is clinically validated, and no consensus conference has been reached on the procedures to be followed, the age of patients to be examined, the patient population to be tested for aneuploidy, etc. Therefore, even if we decided to adopt these amendments, the High Health Authority would not validate this practice. This would therefore not be covered by health insurance. There is a risk that there will be clinics or laboratories that will do this against payment. I think that this type of drift should be very careful, because it would be contrary to the objective. In addition, if you visit the U.S. ClinicalTrials.gov site, you will see that there are currently 150 ongoing clinical studies around the world, because the indications of IPR are not validated. Finally, and without wishing to engage me in a scientific discourse, it should be stressed that there is, first, a risk of mosaic, that is, not all cells are necessarily affected – some are healthy, others are not – and second, a risk of false positives and false negatives. This is why new techniques are being experimented, some of which are global in purpose, to determine whether the entire embryo is affected by chromosomal abnormalities, and not five to ten cells per cent – since at J5, there are about one hundred cells.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u58	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u59	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly the ethical issue of the most difficult bill to decide – even if there were others that were complicated. At the individual level, I believe that Mr Berta's argument and the authors of the other amendments under discussion is quite valid. Couples who have a child with a serious genetic disease and therefore have access to a pre-implantatory diagnosis to avoid implanting a sick embryo are at a non-zero risk that, during the in vitro fertilization technique, chromosomal abnormalities will affect this embryo, resulting in either early miscarriages or trisomys 13, 18 or 21 – which, on the other hand, are viable. The question before us is this: because of the suffering associated with these individual journeys, do we want to allow the technique of the numeration of autosomes? I had refused earlier to take part in the discussion on the issue of IPR-HLA and issued a wisdom opinion because I felt that I had too emotional a report on this technique and that I did not have enough hindsight to be able to give an independent opinion. There, obviously, all doctors are in favour of using the technique – and I hear their arguments: they follow these patients, they want to do the best for them, they are faced with couples who are engaged in a long and difficult process of in vitro fertilization and who already have a sick child; They want to avoid either a miscarriage or another child with a Down syndrome. The question is not whether doctors or these families are legitimate to ask this question: they are, it is obvious. The question is what guarantee we have, if we pass this course, that we will not go beyond it. This is the only question that the legislator has to ask itself with regard to a bioethics law. Through these amendments, it is proposed that embryos subject to research for genetic diseases should be subject to an autosome count and a search for chromosomal abnormalities. Firstly, as the rapporteur pointed out, there may be false positives and false negatives, i.e. the cells studied may appear healthy while the remaining cells are ill. It is therefore a false security. Above all, this would be a pre-implantation prenatal diagnosis for all Down syndromes and especially for Down syndrome 21. Today, Mr. Berta, the DPNI concerns only trisomy 21; It is not validated for other trisomies. It is based on the mother's level of risk, which is assessed by a blood test, so it is not offered to all women. It's based on a probability. If the blood test is offered to all women, DPNI depends on the level of risk and concerns only trisomy 21. Compared to the current prenatal screening, new things would therefore be sought; Most importantly, the diagnosis would be preimplantatory. How can we ensure that this technique is not offered to all couples in vitro fertilization? In this case, an average of 250 couples per year would be increased to 150,000 LDCs. However, if this technique were allowed in the context of a search for genetic diseases on the grounds that it would avoid miscarriages, the next step – and this is already the demand of the professionals in the sector – would be to search for aneuploidy for all in vitro fertilizations, regardless of the existence of a prior genetic disease in the couple concerned, and this in order to avoid miscarriages with repetition. However, the search for aneuploidy necessarily gives information on the trisomies. This would therefore amount to information on trisomies for all couples involved in such an approach; We would have to give them the information and tell them to avoid the implantation of an embryo carrying a trisomy. It's this slip that's a problem for me. How can we imagine that we will not automatically result in all in vitro fertilizations being searched for aneuploidy and "free" from trisomy in an LDC? This leads to the myth of a "healthy" child. Let us take the case of a couple who have a child with a genetic disease. We're going to tell him: we're going to avoid repeated miscarriages and a child with Down syndrome because we don't want a double sentence for you – forgive me if I use this expression that will shock all those who, on these benches, accompany or have in their families a child with Down syndrome; But, in reality, if they are to avoid double punishment for Down syndrome, they are not promised that they will have a child free from genetic diseases. The embryo would be sorted on the sole criterion of the genetic disease of the first sick child and on the criterion of the trisomy. The next step, the natural slide, is to search for other common genetic diseases. Why stop in such a good way? If the goal is to prevent these couples from having a second sick child, why simply diagnose trisomy 13, 18 or 21, and not any genetic disease?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u62	So if I understand the doctor's request, I wonder if we would be able to resist for a long time a shift towards the search for aneuploidy for all in vitro fertilizations and the extension of the use of the technique to the search for abnormalities or mutations related to other diseases, because it is very easy to search for genetic diseases on DNA. That is the question before us, and that is the ethical tension which, in my view, is at stake in the proposed amendments. Finally, I would like to say that the fact of going through an experiment, as is proposed, makes no sense. Experimenting means asking a question and waiting for a first result to decide how to deploy a device. There is no question here. We master the technique. We know exactly what she's giving. To say that we are going to go through an experiment is only one way to circumvent things, to get a derogation to use a technique that is now prohibited.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u64	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] In truth, we do not expect anything from the experiment that we do not already know. We know how to do it, we know the result. The only question that arises is: do we want to extend the use of this technique or not? Since we are not certain that we will not slip into anything else, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u65	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u66	These amendments raise a sensitive and sensitive issue. First, they concern families affected by a serious illness; It's always difficult to position yourself when you're not in the same situation. However, their adoption would not be without consequences. Several questions arise. Is trisomy 21 a disease? Which parent could choose between an embryo without anomaly and an embryo carrying a trisomy? Is this a real choice, as for an interruption of pregnancy? What consequences for society would the adoption of a proposal involving sorting between embryos? What role, as a parliamentarian, can I play in promoting an inclusive society where everyone, in their diversity, has a place? Finally, what message would be sent to trisomics, their families and friends? [[Exclaims on the MODEM benches]] I would like to read you the worried e-mail that I received from the parents of a trisomic little girl, whose name is Thais: "We are not going to tell you stories, telling you that it is easy. No, it's sometimes difficult and life with a child with a disability has certain difficulties. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u67	We've all received this email!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u68	Colleagues, I listened to you, thank you for giving me back the favor. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the LR group]] "We have understood that our humanity is embodied in our relationship with the weakest. It is in this relationship that we fully express the best of what makes us men. If we want to remove all forms of fragility and weakness, we sacrifice what we have most beautiful: this humanity. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u69	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u70	Unfortunately, I will have to be very fast, because of the scheduled legislative time that is simmering this very beautiful debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill, Bénédicte Pételle and Martine Wonner also applaud]] First of all, I would like to ask some of our colleagues to pay attention to the words they use, because they can hurt – even if it is certainly unintentional. I can't accept it if we talk about "Gemelity" as a risk and disability as a cause of divorce. I therefore ask our colleague to take care of what he can say – the same colleague proposed an prenatal diagnosis of autism: it makes me cold in the back, to me who chairs the group on autism in the House. I also hear Mr Touraine talking about aneuploidy, not to say the things as they are, namely that it is trisomy 21 which is referred to here. Have at least the courage to defend your opinions and use words that everyone can understand! [[Exclaims on the MODEM benches]] As for the substance of the debate, once it is not customary, I will support the position of the Minister and the rapporteur. You have mentioned the risks of errors: this argument can be retained, but frankly, it does not seem to me to be the most important. I believe that there is a risk of gearing towards sorting. Here again, let us use the right words – let us at least have the courage to use them tonight: what you denounce, Madam Minister, is simply a risk of eugenics! We shall vote for our part against these amendments, because we do not want to see this gear that the minister rightly fears. On the other hand, I would still like you to think about the message that we send to families: to hear some, we have the impression that trisomy 21 is a tare that must be eliminated at all costs and as soon as possible; Tomorrow we will be told about autism or other diseases in the same terms. I cannot accept that. What am I going to say tomorrow to the mother of the little Rémi, who chairs a parental school for autistic children that I created in my commune, and who is very happy with this child? Rémi is making great progress. What am I going to say to Helen's mom, who fought for this trisomic child, after primary school, to be accepted into high school – where everything is going very well? We all have great cases and adventures around us; We just need to learn tolerance, learn diversity. There is no point in making great speeches and fighting for the inclusion of disabled children in school, if we are discussing this evening a horrific triage to ensure that there are no more disabled children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u71	Be careful with the words you use! Sorting isn't nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs. Agnes Thill also applauds]] Let us be reasonable: let us accept the difference, let us put a little humanity in our debates and reject these unacceptable amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u73	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u74	I would like to thank the Minister for her extremely precise and wise reasoning, which certainly reflects the views of many of us. It is obvious that if we follow a purely scientific logic, the arguments put forward by the promoters of these amendments are imparable, since it is a question of avoiding additional risks to people engaged in a long, complicated and not without risk in vitro fertilisation process; This diagnosis would avoid certain miscarriages under certain conditions, and detect very serious genetic diseases. So far, everyone could consider this gesture almost therapeutic. The other arguments, however, immediately suggest the drift. It's not just the film The Eighth Day to Move, there are also these thousands of children living in their families, and the fight of their parents – because raising a child with Down syndrome is a fight. Our society wants to be inclusive; We cannot both look at bills or bills to encourage the inclusion of these children, and tell some families that they may have the opportunity, using IPR-A, to limit the risk of having a child with Down syndrome. It is incoherent on the philosophical level, on the humanist level, that we all promote. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Then come the frightening arguments, although I don't judge anyone for using them: economic arguments. It seems to me extremely dangerous to think of this medical procedure in terms of savings on repeat miscarriages and other risks. Perhaps we are at one of the stages of this bill where the notion of ethics is becoming more important. Ethics requires that we say, at some point, that we cannot use all the medical or therapeutic techniques at our disposal to try to deal with the problems that society faces. I am not just going to make friends in this House, but this issue is too serious to leave to scientists alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u75	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u76	I would like to thank the Minister for Solidarity and Health for speaking out on this issue in an objective way. She recalled that for the people concerned, much suffering would be eliminated...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u77	The suffering would not be eliminated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u78	... but also that all professionals support this progress and have expressed it in forums, in a reasonable way, since they limit their recommendations to particularly relevant cases: women over 36 years of age, women having experienced two successive failures of in vitro fertilization, etc. Finally, the minister said that this proposal was very legitimate. I therefore welcome his presentation; However, it does not have any reservations, as there is no guarantee that the original limits will be respected. But these limits are sufficiently precise for this: the age, the number of previous failures do not give rise to interpretation, and so they can very well be fixed in the law for the services practising IPR-A, without there being any extensions to be foreseen afterwards. It is not the myth of the healthy child that is involved, it is the notion of the living child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u79	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u80	One point that deserves attention is that of research in this field, which needs to be further developed. In fact, clinical research will have to set for the future, on an even more rigorous basis, the age limits and the number of failures, in order to ensure that we are as relevant as possible. It is essential, because the alternative would be to stay out of this, to wait for progress to come from other countries, which will produce results, and to apply it ten years late: unfortunately, under these conditions, we will not apply it properly. Jean Hamburger said that there are no countries in the world where quality clinical medicine can be found without an associated research. Indeed, if we refuse to contribute to progress in this area, we will continue to penalize women or couples who use assisted human reproduction for decades. Finally, the question is not that of eugenics...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u81	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u82	... since there will be neither one more person nor one less person.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u83	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u84	[[Ms Claire Pitollat and Messrs. Hervé Saulignac, Bruno Fuchs and Brahim Hammouche applaud. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It is therefore not a question of changing the genetic heritage of the species. You'll understand, either we'll diagnose an embryo that won't be viable...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u85	Because we're eliminating him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u86	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ... either we implant this embryo, which will give a miscarriage, or to the rigor a patient with Down syndrome 18, whose survival will not exceed a few weeks. This will have no effect on the evolution of the human species. We are, I repeat, totally out of the field of eugenics; There may be arguments for or against these amendments, but this does not apply. Eugenics are spoken of when living people of reproductive age transmit genes that have been selected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u87	The embryo selection is eugenics! It's a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u88	The choice of viable embryos, Mr. Breton!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u89	Please don't question yourself. Mr. Touraine, go on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u90	By eliminating non-viable embryos, we are out of eugenics and exclude disability; This is why we are simultaneously defending better care for people with disabilities, and preferring not to implant an unviable embryo, rather than leading to a miscarriage or a child destined to die in its early years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u91	What hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u92	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u93	I understand the reticences that occur, especially when we approach the subject with the example of Down syndrome 21. We have all been affected by cases of this disease and, let us say, by the happiness that a Down syndrome child can bring to a family, a human life that deserves to be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u94	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u95	We are making a mistake by agitating an alleged desire to eradicate trisomy 21 through the elimination of embryos. Madam Minister, I would like to object to your argument: you said that if we extend the IPR-A, we would risk seeing the search for anomalies increase from 250 to 150,000 cases. Of course, but there are 800,000 births per year in France; Trisomy 21 was investigated in the antenatal diagnosis of most of these children and, in the case of positive results, the couple was given the option of continuing or interrupting pregnancy. As was well expressed in a previous session, the ethical debate on allowing a woman, a couple, to interrupt pregnancy because the fetus is carrying Down syndrome is behind us: it has been decided. We would take a huge step backwards if we allowed the idea that trisomy 21 should no longer be detected at the embryonic or antenatal stages. This argument cannot therefore be retained. Mr rapporteur, you oppose our proposal with the risk of false positives or false negatives. Recognizing their existence is inherent in the scientific method; Do we have to ban this one? We need to hear the scientists. Around the world, as you say, it is not four or five members of this assembly who propose an amendment, it is the Société de médecine de la reproduction, the Association des cytogeneticiens de langue française, the Société française de gynecologie, the Groupe d'étude de la fertilisation in vitro en France, the Fédération des biologists des laboratoires d'étude de la fertilisation et de la conservation de l'euf, and the collective of the patient associations of the AMP and infertile people. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Mr Daniel Fasquelle protested]] What do these associations ask for? Allow them in some cases, limited, to count chromosomes at the time of genetic diagnosis. It's not economics; They are savings of suffering. Let us not be deaf to the call of these couples: it is a question of avoiding them from miscarriages by repetition. It's about giving them the information they're entitled to get from doctors – pardons, scientists, too. That is what we are asking for in this amendment: a right to knowledge. What is obscurantism? The refusal to look at a reality, for fear of knowing it. Are we here, ladies and gentlemen? [["Oh! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, this afternoon, on the occasion of the immigration debate, you mentioned two words, "violence" and "scarrying." I'll return them to you, Madam Minister. The refusal of the IPR-A is a violence against the couple, a struggle against thought and scientific progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u96	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u97	We should listen better to my friend and colleague Philippe Berta. He referred to the concept of consent. It is the information of patients, during the realization of this IPR of aneuploidies, that is at the heart of this ethical debate. The information is at two levels: upstream of the tests and downstream, when the results are returned. Screening and its consequences, as well as the outcome and its consequences, must be clearly explained to the parents who need to be sure that they have understood the issues. As far as explanation and consent are concerned, there is reason in terms of risk-related benefits. According to this criterion, is it legitimate to carry out these tests? No one will give a negative answer. Is it relevant to retain as a criterion the benefit of this test, for the parents, during pregnancy, as well as for the child to come? Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u98	He makes the questions and answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u99	Because of these two answers, we already have two reasons to validate this amendment. There was talk of the so-called inclusive society. Let us simply remember that Denmark, which is often cited as an example for its model of inclusion of persons with disabilities, realizes this IPR: there is a result of 98% abolition, or rather of cessation of the process. And yet Denmark is the most inclusive society in Europe, if not the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u100	They even have a payload bank in Denmark! What a fine example!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u101	I will therefore answer yes for the quality of the information given, yes for the understanding of the issues, yes for the consent which must be informed and lies at the heart of the relationship between the patient and the physician – and more generally, of all professionals in the exercise of their profession. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM group and a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, access to IPRs, when information and consent are acquired, raises the question of the autonomy of citizens. These amendments, and the following ones, tend only to accompany professionals and patients in their increasing freedom of choice in order to go from the chance of the probable to the choice of possible ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u102	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u103	Mr Berta's amendment invites us to question our conscience. I'm not a signatory, but I've been thinking a lot about it. I have looked at the pre-implantation diagnosis as it has been performed in France for twenty-five years, for the benefit of parents likely to transmit a serious illness. The aim is to detect the presence of this disease at the time of implantation of the embryo, designed after in vitro fertilization. This represents 4% of in vitro fertilizations. Philippe Berta proposes that, of these 4% cases of in vitro fertilization where a risk of transmitting a serious disease to the child is presumed, it is possible, in the context of an experiment – in order not to fall under Article 40 –, without further medical action and with the consent of the parents, to number the non-sexual chromosomes, or autosomes, to check whether a genetic disease would compromise the viability of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u104	Not just.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u105	These aneuploidies – the fact that a cell does not have the right number of chromosomes – lead, in 99% of cases, to a miscarriage. But in 1% of cases, the embryo will be viable. The child may have a Down syndrome or something, but the embryo will be viable. That 1% makes me think. Because the concern is legitimate: to avoid miscarriages and medical interruptions of pregnancy, to avoid keeping or giving embryos that will implant badly. It is obvious that the reasons are good. In 99% of cases, it can be accepted that, in the same way that it is considered that a serious disease cannot be transmitted to the child, a genetic disease that renders the embryo unsustainable must be able to be detected. What can be done for the 1% of cases where the embryo is viable and where, even if it has a disability from birth, the child can live, surrounded by a loving family? You have expressed your concern, Madam Minister, that the adoption of this amendment prevents us from finding the limit. By rereading Mr Berta's amendment, I ended up setting my own limit, in accordance with my most intimate principles: if the embryo is not viable, it seems acceptable to me that it should not be implanted, that it should not be preserved, that it should not be given. But if it is viable, we must ban ourselves from any sort of sorting. That is why we would have wanted to propose to you, but we did it too late, a sub-amendment so that the experiment would be restricted to the detection of embryos that would not be viable, since viable embryos remain subject to the current legislation. If the minister so wishes and my group chair agrees to ask for a suspension of the sitting, we could think together about drafting this sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u106	That's not how we work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u107	In this case, it is not a question of putting an end to...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u108	Yes, I do! Your colleague used the word "delete"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u109	[[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] ... or to harm people with Down syndrome 21, but to spare suffering to women who are implanted with unviable embryos by a complicated technical process whose miscarriage would be the only way out. That would be a step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u110	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u111	At this stage of the debate, which is extremely rich, there is the greatest confusion, to the extent that it does not actually correspond, or by far, to the drafting of the amendments. We're talking about miscarriages, repeated abortions. A 90% miscarriage rate is reported for aneuploidy, which is not known. Some explain that IPR will be used to detect genetic mutations. Others put the risk of a drift, which is real, especially since we cannot set the framework for what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u113	Because we're here: we don't know how to write the law! I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but we have not determined a precise framework in which we could clearly position ourselves, agree or disagree. There's nothing – and we mix everything! It's normal because the subject, complex, sensitive, takes us to the guts. We do not mean yes, but we do not mean no. The risks of drift exist, but the reason for the legislator should not be overlooked. In short, I repeat, we are here: we do not have a framework. Besides, I can't let it be said that all the doctors would agree. Eighty doctors have signed a stand in Le Monde, and all the learned societies to which they belong have been cited, but they cannot represent all the doctors. Many physicians who practice IPRs every day do not want it to become a routine care and prefer to continue their clinical research under the section 14 that we have adopted. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, Mr. Martin, it's not obscurantism! Mr. Touraine, we can do clinical research! We voted! So I don't see what the problem is. As for the search for aneuploidies on autosomes, it could be stated in the law that it is forbidden to search for a trisomy 21, but still we should know in what framework we are! The search for aneuploidies will be carried out a priori in the very specific cases of relatively old women, who suffer from repeated miscarriages or foetal losses. It is not true to claim that a search for aneuploidia could be carried out in the course of a search for genetic mutation. That's not the case we're discussing. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the text of the amendments does not correspond to our debate and does not make it possible to clarify the framework that would be necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u114	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u115	I would ask for a suspension of the sitting, Madam President, following the statement by Mr Jean-Noël Barrot and after listening to the rapporteur. [[Bruno Fuchs applauds]] First of all, let us remember that no one here is for sorting and that all of us are for life. It's not about morals, it's...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u116	That's not a big word.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u117	...because morality comes from a personal experience. It's all about ethics. We're voting for a bioethics law. You claim that we do not know anything about the consequences of the decision we would make today. Since we voted a few days ago to open the LDC to all women...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u118	Mr President Patrick Mignola, this is not a request for suspension of the sitting but an intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u119	[[Exclaims]] I am trying to justify this request for a suspension of sitting that you have not yet granted me, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u120	Please close as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u121	[[Mr. Bruno Millienne applauds. – Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I hear we don't know where we're going to make the decision we could make tonight, but that's the same argument as when some of our colleagues told us a few days ago that the LDC would inevitably lead to GPA!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u122	Even he recognizes him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u123	It therefore seems necessary to suspend the sitting in order to...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u124	We get it. Ladies and gentlemen, do not ignite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u125	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u126	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have before me two sub-amendments which can be presented together: sub-amendment No 2631 to Amendment No 781 and identical, and sub-amendment No 2632 to Amendment No 1812. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support them. We will then resume discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u127	What is proposed is to extend the pre-implantation diagnosis, which currently involves 4% of in vitro fertilizations, to autosome counts, i.e. non-sexual chromosomes. In 99% of cases, non-viable embryos would then be detected. However, in 1% of cases, mainly as a result of trisomy 21, potentially viable individuals could be selected. The sub-amendment that we are proposing to Mr Berta's amendment and to the identical amendments therefore tends to mean that, during this three-year experimental period, the programmed IPRs include an autosome count "excluding chromosome 21".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u128	Is that technically possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u129	The sub-amendment to Mr Saulignac's amendment is drafted in a broader way: it allows the numeration of autosomes "for the sole purpose of detecting cases of non-viable anuploidies". Thus, the first subamendment explicitly excludes trisomy 21 while the second excludes embryos considered viable. The Minister referred to technical difficulties. Indeed, it may be difficult to dissociate the analysis of chromosome 21 from that of other chromosomes, and practitioners may be tempted not to implant a viable embryo because it has been detected. But it would appear that chromosome 21 can still be isolated when autosomes are digitized, in the same way that X and Y chromosomes can be isolated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u130	What is your opinion, Mr rapporteur, on these two sub-amendments which the committee has not examined?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u131	As you have just pointed out, Madam President, the committee has obviously not had the opportunity to examine these two sub-amendments which have just been drafted. It is important, in my view, to clarify what we are looking for: chromosome 21 on one side, or then aneuploidies leading to non-viability of the embryo. What you say about the latter case, in which implantation of the embryo is unlikely to succeed or is likely to result in miscarriage, is an element of reason, it is not possible to deny it. I simply insist, I am sorry, on one fact: according to the wording of the text, it will be allowed, or not, to the doctor to eliminate certain embryos.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u132	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u133	When you claim that false negatives or false positives are not important, I do not agree with you: yes, they are very important. If there are 20% or 30% false positives or false negatives, this means you are mistaken in 20% or 30% of cases: you eliminate or keep embryos by making a mistake. It is therefore very important to clarify things well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u134	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u135	That is also why – I know that the debate has taken a very scientific turn – we need to pay attention to mosaic embryos: taking a sample of five cells out of a hundred, that's... 5%. We don't know what's going on in the remaining 95%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u136	That's already the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u137	Yes, except that as a result of numerous recent studies, including in centres that practice this technique, five to ten cells out of a hundred are no longer being collected, but efforts are being made to obtain a more comprehensive view of the embryo to determine whether or not chromosomal abnormalities affect the entire embryo. It's not hard to understand. Moreover, even with these sub-amendments, the framework is also unclear. Is what you are advocating, Mr Barrot, aimed at IPRs for genetic abnormalities or proposed to women with repeated miscarriages or foetal losses? We don't know. This must be regulated, and that is essential. If you specified that it is fetal loss or repeated miscarriage that is involved, then your proposal would be acceptable. But if the framework is not specified, we take the risk of the drifts that the minister has mentioned, because the two situations are very different. Finally, what you are advocating is certainly reasonable, but once again we have adopted Article 14, after lengthy debate! Clinical studies can finally be carried out in France, over three years – a period that you had foreseen in the amendments. That is why I am in favour of amending bioethics laws no longer every seven years but every five years. Opinion against both sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u139	These two sub-amendments clarify the debate. I heard Mr. Touraine talking about miscarriages. In fact, if we had a technique, looking for aneuploidies or something else, that would simply allow us to improve in vitro fertilization in order to prevent women from miscarriages, and if this technique only gave us this information, there would be no ethical problem and therefore no debate: it would simply be a matter of improving the technique of in vitro fertilization. We would all be in favour of it, just as we are all in favour of looking at the shape of the embryos to see if there is any break-in. It would simply be an additional technique to avoid unnecessary relocations for women. The problem is that the technique that gives us this information gives us another information at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u141	These are trisomies. This is where the ethical problem arises. The solution proposed by your sub-amendments is that we do not look at what we see! The problem is that there is no doctor today who knows not to look at what he sees. It is so true that Article 10 of the text allows a doctor, when he discovers an incidental genetic anomaly, to tell his patient. Because doctors can't stand seeing something and not being able to talk about it! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and a few benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] Your sub-amendments ask the doctor not to see the trisomy, which he does not know how to do. That is why, I repeat, they help us to clarify the debate perfectly. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group as well as a few benches of the LR group. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] In vitro fertilization is a constantly improving technique, and I dream that the clinical hospital research program on chromosomal abnormalities can help us move forward. Perhaps, in three or four years' time, we will be able to have better techniques to promote implantation and avoid the risk of miscarriage. However, today we cannot resort to a technique that would simply allow us to improve in vitro fertilization without giving us further information on viable embryos with pathologies we know. For this reason, I am deeply opposed to all the amendments under discussion and to the sub-amendments, because, I repeat, we cannot ask a doctor to act as if he did not see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, it should be time to adjourn the sitting, but I think it would be desirable for us to go this evening to the end of this debate. There are still sixteen of you who want to intervene. Everyone will speak, but I invite all of you to be concise. Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u143	I am very pleased that I have been confirmed that all the specialists in the field support these amendments. They are all the more concerned because they have so far been quite able to limit themselves to the only IPR, carried out on the suspected genetic pathology alone and on no other. It proves that they are people of reason, who know how to respect the rules they are given. They are also the same people who are facing the patients. I am thinking of the testimony of this mother of Strasbourg, who made all this journey for a suspicion of cystic fibrosis and was on the way out with a trisomy. Practitioners who need to announce such news take a lot on them, I assure you. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and some benches of the LaREM group]] I would also point out that IPR-A is now common practice in almost all European countries. However, it has not been the cause of any spillover on other aneuploidy research in other in vitro fertilization situations. All the arguments against these amendments are therefore not acceptable to me. Practitioners are responsible and will remain responsible, no matter what.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u144	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u145	Since Strasbourg has just been mentioned, this is where the first laboratory which used the technique of IPR-A in France in 1996 and which saw the first pregnancy end after an IPR-A in 1999. Professor Viville returns from a congress in Athens, and he testifies that all the centres that currently practice IPR-A are beginning to stop this technique, for the simple and good reason that, whatever the motivations, the results are not convincing. Let's not open this technique, of which France does not have the actual and proven practice, while today other laboratories reverse! It has been said that IPR-A can reduce the number of miscarriages, but we know very well that many factors responsible for miscarriages have nothing to do with a chromosomal anomaly! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I hear your concern, and the subject is sensitive. As you pointed out, minister, there is reason to wait until the technique has become satisfactory. Unfortunately, today it is not. The adoption of such amendments would be too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u146	Mrs Anne-France Brunet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u147	I wonder about trisomys 13 and 18, which usually lead to unsustainable embryos. In particular, in the context of MPAs, I find it interesting to experiment with IPR-A practice. We must not forget the journey of these couples, and especially of women, who resort to the AMP: this can last between two and ten years, even never succeed... It is absolutely necessary to ask ourselves about such an experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u148	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u149	This debate, we must say, began on Friday evening, with the very touching testimony of our colleague Vincent Thiébaut, whom I would like to greet. He finished his speech by urging us not to open Pandora's box. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mr. Vincent Thiébaut also applauds]] Without going into detail, what emerges from our debate this evening is that every time we talk about bioethics, we must not lose sight of the human dimension. We must take life into consideration. However, with these amendments, even under-amended, viable embryos may be eliminated. I don't know how you describe the removal process as viable embryos. This is a real question that I ask you, especially in relation to the philosophy of MODEM.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u150	The MODEM is not Bellamy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u151	Mr. Mignola, I listened to you without interrupting. I'd like you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u152	[[Exclaims on a few banks in the MODEM group]] MODEM voters must also be informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u153	Oh, stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u154	Only Mr. Hetzel has the floor...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] Mr Mignola, we have been here for two and a half weeks, and you have not been seen in the Chamber. I ask you for a little respect for those who have been here since the beginning of the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u156	Your words are unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u157	Above all, I would like to stress that the precautionary principle should apply in this area. And since we are now witnessing this, many of us have been struck by Yann Bucaille, creator of Café Joyeux. This sign brings together cafes that employ trisomics and autists. They show, very clearly, how joyfully these people can express themselves and have a happy life. Your vision, Mignola, is "let's go cheerfully."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u158	Anything! It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u159	Listen to him...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u160	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] No, I don't think we can go there happily! The precautionary principle should prevail, and I am, of course, on the same line as the rapporteur and the minister: I am against these amendments, which are in fact eugenic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u161	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u162	I will be quick, but I would like to say to my colleagues that I am very uncomfortable with the debate that is taking place. For me, it was not on the agenda whether or not we should accept disability. Children with disabilities have, of course, the right to live, to be happy, to smile, to be loved: this is not the subject! For me, who is neither a doctor nor a researcher, it was a question of whether it was possible to allow women to...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u163	...to choose!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u164	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... to avoid repeated IVFs and miscarriages, especially not to speak out for or against disability. I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u165	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u166	We have been discussing this subject for some time now. At the beginning of our debates, I was very surprised that it was only about science, medicine – I tried to follow, I had trouble... – about technique, numbers and percentages. Yet that's not really what this is about: it's about the human. I have a real problem with this approach. There are other things that come up against me. Thus, Mr. Touraine tells us that refusing IPR-A is tantamount to penalizing women who resort to the LDC. It's something I can't hear, and I don't think many couples can either. Why do you want to make us feel guilty? There are techniques, we are discussing the possibility of using them. We cannot be told at once that we have no right not to offer them to a woman! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and some benches of the LaREM group]] Third thought: Mr Berta, even if I was a little lost, I confess it, I listened very carefully to you. You mentioned a light anomaly: what is a light anomaly compared to another anomaly? For example, is a sixth finger a light anomaly? From when do we consider that we have the perfect baby expected? Everyone has a different baby! Let's agree not to be in science, in profitability. Just now, Madam Minister, you have re-established the debate by taking it out of the scientific terms, and I thank you very much for that. You have bounced back on the word experimentation, which is in fact included in the proposed amendments. The mere fact of using this term hits me: it must not be a question of experimentation, of tweaking! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] In fact, the sub-amendments you are proposing, Mr Barrot, prove that you are not comfortable and that you are trying to correct the shot. I'm sorry, but we're still talking about the human!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u167	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u168	[[Exclaims]] I would like to convey to you my perplexity, at best, or rather my concern. A few days ago, the same Assembly voted for very progressive progress on the LDC. But when I listen to the debates tonight, they seem to me to express a very conservative vision and that worries me. I've heard of a scientific analysis being called into question. The objective analysis, the expertise, even when they reveal doubts and limits, as is the case with false positives and false negatives, nevertheless seem to me the very foundation of our society and our democracy. That is the principle of the discourse of reason, on which our democracy is based. I remind you that it is with speeches such as those that seem to me to be held here that the theory of evolution is called into question in the United States. So I'm kind of puzzled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u169	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I voted against it! And I'm not a conservative, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u170	I heard Mr. Fasquelle say that aneuploidy was trisomy 21: no! Aneuploidy covers much wider cases, such as trisomy 18 which, in its most serious form, gives a life expectancy of not more than one year. I have also heard about the removal of viable embryos. But, in a LDC, viable embryos are actually removed, since many of them are designed before they are removed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u171	That's why we're against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u172	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will take the example of a couple living in my commune, whose first child has cystic fibrosis. For fear of developing a second affected by the same disease, they refused to have another child. Other families, having discovered cystic fibrosis at the time of the first birth, turn to IVF to be able to detect cystic fibrosis in the second child – except that the risk of a trisomy remains! Do we really realize these situations? Of course, in some cases there may be debate. But some families with no known genetic history, who discover the disease with the first child, may see a second child born with a Down syndrome. At some point, it is necessary to enlighten the debate with scientific expertise, objective, without going into considerations of another age!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u173	Obscurantism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is complex and I thank you for listening. Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, chairman of the special commission to examine the bioethics bill, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u175	I don't think talking about humans is something of a different age, Mr. Turquois. For my part, I am proud to be both progressive, since I voted for the expansion of the LDC, and conservative. With the subject we're dealing with tonight, we're on a ridge line. That is what bioethics inspires me: there is both what is in the law, and what is not in it. And I will vote for this text precisely for what is not in it, and I hope that it will still not appear after tonight's vote. A law of bioethics is above all a collective vision, even if it puts us in the face of individual choices. As legislators, our role is to ensure that the text we will be voting for is the result of a collective vision. It's a sensitive subject, Mr. Berta. Of course, there is suffering. But go to special reception houses on weekends, you will see smiles, happiness...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u176	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u177	Yes, Mr. Berta, that's it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u178	They're screams, and it's hard to hear, believe me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u179	Not just. It's twenty-five years of my life, I have no problem with it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In short, we can see that this is a ridge line. I will vote against these amendments, because a law of bioethics is both what is and what is not – in this case, what we have voted for, and that is progressive, and other measures that I will be proud to say are not included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u180	Mr Olivier Véran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u181	It is a complex subject and when I entered the Chamber, my religion was not yet done, if I may say so. And it is even more difficult not to agree with people who are deeply respected for their human and scientific skills – I am of course talking about the rapporteur and the minister. I agree with Monique Limon: I do not believe that we are debating whether or not it is good to be carrying a trisomy 21. We all know, in our constituencies, associations, parents of children with this disability, we all want to give a place to these children born with a disability or genetic anomaly, like everyone else. The debate is not here. If, forty-four years ago, we had not had the debate on the medical interruption of pregnancy; If, in 1975, Parliament had not taken the heavy decision to extend the period of abortion for medical reasons until almost the end of pregnancy; if he had not included genetic anomalies – including trisomies, but not only – in the causes of IMG; I would then understand that we are debating whether to detect the presence of a serious genetic anomaly before the implantation of an embryo is lawful. But it happened! We are refusing the possibility of detecting, before the implantation of an embryo, a genetic malformation that leads when detected to propose an interruption of pregnancy – which is accepted in 85% of cases in France. We therefore refuse to detect as soon as possible an anomaly which, once detected, later, during pregnancy – thanks to ultrasound, amniocentesis, traumatic tests for pregnant women – will lead to proposing the termination of pregnancy, including late if the anomaly is detected late. At this point, families will have the opportunity to choose! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Tonight, we do not decide whether our society should be more or less inclusive, nor whether the trisomy is good or bad: we seek to know whether it is possible to anticipate traumatic situations for women and men who, after having already lived an almost insurmountable combatant's journey, had finally reached the stage where the life of their future child would be able to begin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u182	Absolutely! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u183	[[Same movements]] I fully understand the reservations that have been made, I fully understand the limits and risks. But we parliamentarians are in a position to ensure that the reserves are guaranteed and the risks are not crossed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u184	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u185	Even if I can hear all the arguments that have been put forward, I agree with Olivier Véran. I would like to point out that the minister has put the debate: on the one hand, there are individual situations, on the other hand, a collective decision to be taken. I do not think there are pro or anti-disabled supporters, I agree with Monique Limon on this point: let us not be mistaken about a debate. Even if it was not in my original intentions, I must call for an argument, because few have done so: it seems to me that from the moment that, as Mr.Véran said, we have already discussed the DPN and the IMG, not wanting to discuss the DPI-A calmly – that is, without being accused of wanting to leave the disability aside in our societies – is to postpone the weight of this decision on women, on their bodies, on their rights, on what they are experiencing. We must therefore be careful. Decisions were made several decades ago: is this to say that IPR-A is not desirable because it would be less painful to make this decision then, rather than when the woman is carrying the child? This aspect of the question bothers me greatly. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This leads us to the argument of the European Court of Human Rights, which, in 2012, sanctioned Italy and stressed the need for a coherent system: in its view, if the DPN has been authorised for certain diseases of particular gravity, which can lead to an IMG, it is not possible to prohibit the DPI. The Court states in that judgment that this is not a right to a healthy child, since the IPR is limited to certain genetic pathologies whose parents bear. A general genetic examination of all types of pathologies is not carried out on any child: the diagnosis concerns only parents with a genetic disease. The Court therefore held that, where there is a legislative system which has already authorised the DPN and the IMG, it would be an excessive infringement of the applicants' right to respect for their private and family life not to allow them access to the DPI.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u186	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u187	The commune of Rosières-aux-Salines, of which I have been mayor for nearly ten years, has had up to 500 disabled people per 3,000 inhabitants. I'm proud of that. This deeply humanized public spaces. These people say hello, they participate in social life, they are deeply integrated. Their joy of living is communicative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u188	It's not the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u189	[[Exclaims on the MODEM benches]] Yes! These people are not just suffering, as Mr Touraine said. And, even if Mr. Barrot speaks of double punishment, these people are not just worth it. There is also life, smiles, joy. There is even a return to the essentials for the people around them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u190	It's insulting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u191	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the MODEM group]] I didn't insult you, sir.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u192	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u193	Stop it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u194	Are these threats?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u195	Go on, Mr. Bazin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u196	It is true that the MPA offers opportunities, which must be framed. Natural pathways do not select gametes that meet and embryos that develop, while with MPA, the technique allows, if not framed, to choose, select and avoid children that may be somewhat different from others. After removing the pathological criterion for access to the MPA, we need to be particularly vigilant, because if we combine this provision with possible screenings before implantation of the embryos, we open the Pandora's box. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] In addition, some chromosomal anomalies are observed and then rectified spontaneously. These amendments and sub-amendments express a kind of hypocrisy of "at the same time": on the one hand, the speech of all-inclusive is held; On the other hand, we are preparing to prevent these embryos from being born. I think the real inclusion is to recognize, for these future children who are more or less deficient – and we do not know how much at the time of the IPR – the value of their lives before their birth, to welcome them, to accompany them and at least to accompany the families who receive them. I would therefore urge you, too, to oppose these amendments, which would form a slippery slope towards eugenics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u197	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u198	I would like to respond to three arguments that I have heard. First of all, we do not question science in any way, and that is because we know what it allows us to impose a ban. We know that experimentation is not necessary, because it will bear fruit: indeed, we will be able to sort and eliminate, but that is precisely what our reserve is about, because we do not want to embark on this path. Without questioning, therefore, scientific work, we want to set a limit. The challenge of a bioethics law is also, as the chairman of the special committee said, to know what are the prohibitions that we do not wish to lift. The second argument is parallel to the medical termination of pregnancy. I have no doubt that everyone in this House would agree to vote for an amendment that would ensure that a woman cannot suffer miscarriage. No one here wants a woman to suffer. However, this amendment does not guarantee this. In fact, the environmental factors that can lead to miscarriage are so numerous that, even if we could eliminate only some chromosomal factors, that would not be enough. And, as the minister pointed out, what would be visible on the five centimeters of this small blade would not be limited to that possibility. The situations therefore do not seem to me to be comparable. Moreover, there is a question of the implantation of an embryo, and the choice would therefore be made before pregnancy. However, one is not the same person depending on whether one decides during pregnancy to continue this pregnancy or not, with the pain and difficulties that this implies, or whether one has to choose a priori between a "healthy" embryo – but what does that mean? – and an embryo that wouldn't be. By voting this, we actually accept this systematic selection. The third argument, which applies to all bioethics laws, is whether or not one wishes to place a cursor. That, in my view, is what is essential, and that is why I think this is the most sensitive subject of this bill – the LDC is indeed a much simpler ethical issue. For my part, I do not know where to place the cursor and I do not want us, as legislators, to take the risk of putting a foot in the door, and then to be asked to detect other types of anomalies and diseases. We do not want to go this way tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u199	Mr Lassalle, you are inscribed on the following article. If you are sure that you would also like to speak on these amendments, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u200	Thank you for giving me the floor, Madam President. As Marc Le Fur recalled, quoting my friend Alfred de Vigny, "Only silence is great; Everything else is weakness. Admit that I must be very big, because we are attacking the third week of debate on this text and I have spoken only three minutes forty! And I wouldn't have the right to talk more... Good thing you still wanted to listen to me. That said, don't worry: no media will repeat what I say, for no one anymore cites those who put themselves in the way of what he thinks. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I will let this debate continue. I don't know where we're going or where our country is going. I've seen a lot of them. I voted against the LDC because, in a very short time, we will have to vote against the GPA. It's inevitable: we can't leave women on one side and men on the other! It never happened. I remember the denials of the Government, which assured us, during the debate on marriage for all, that we would never move on to the LDC – all you have to do is look at the transcripts to verify it. I am in my third term as a Member of Parliament, and I do not need to wait for the following article to speak: after that, I will no longer speak about this text. However, I would like to say that in three weeks I have had three forty minutes to speak! As one of the oldest members of this assembly, I have never been so badly treated by a Speaker of the National Assembly – not you, Madam President, the other! But I hope that the fate that awaits her is not the one that, if the information available to me is correct, seems to be waiting for Ms. Ernotte, who will have to explain herself, even though it represents some sort of meeting of the Tass Agency and the well-known radio of the time. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group. – Rires on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I hope that this country will not become the country of silence, where one is obliged to calibrate his words. No! This place is the place of the people, where everyone freely expresses, without being conservative or progressive, what the people ask them to say.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u201	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor. My colleague, you have already taken the floor, so I invite you to be concise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u202	Madam President, I will try to comply with your request. However, it is quite difficult to speak after Jean Lassalle. This debate is a little surreal. We are talking about serious issues, where the scientific point of view can be justified to some extent – until ethics comes into play. It does not seem to me very serious to make a sub-amendment on a table corner during a sitting suspension to try to respond to the imparable arguments put forward both by the rapporteur and by the minister. Some colleagues do not accept that disability is said not only to be a burden, a problem and suffering, but also to be life as it is expressed. We are alpaguered in session, we are accused of being aggressive or insulting, we are said to be obscurantists, because we refuse to believe that doctors who seek one or two causes of trisomy, trisomys 13 or 18, will not be able to see also trisomy 21. Yes, I do! And they will necessarily offer the couple or the woman concerned not to welcome this child, it is not even possible to do otherwise, from an ethical point of view!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u203	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u204	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The debate on these sub-amendments is therefore simply unnecessary. We need to take a decision on the amendments as drafted. Some will vote in favour, others against, but the sub-amendments make no sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u205	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u206	Thirty-seven years ago, the hospital in Clamart, Professor Frydman and Amandine were the pride of France. Today, the success rates in our country are two and a half times lower than those that a woman can obtain in Spain, for example. Indeed, today we have a very conservative view of things. We can do much more without going to the eugenics that you denounce, as my colleagues have shown quite well. You speak of human suffering, but we know all the paths, traumas, suffering inflicted on women's bodies with stimulations, general anaesthesia, miscarriages and extrauterine pregnancies. Why still allow, in 2019, one in two women to suffer these traumas while technology, medicine and science today have the means, within the framework of a guaranteed ethics, to avoid it to them? And I'm not talking about how many couples have torn themselves apart or separated themselves at the end of this traumatic process! [[MM. Didier Martin and Nicolas Turquois applaud]] Let's talk about humanity, okay, I hear it. But I know some paths, and I don't want them to exist anymore. Today we have the means to avoid such suffering and it is your responsibility to take this decision today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u207	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u208	[[MM. Vincent Thiébaut and Jean Lassalle applaud]] Madam President, I have in common with Jean Lassalle a certain sobriety about this text: I have only spoken once, in a rather generic way. I'll take it again about this border. That's a pretty sensitive point. This is not only an intimate question and an intimate conviction, but a question that is as much a matter of morality as of ethics – since there is no difference between the two: it is exactly the same word, depending on whether one uses the Latin or Greek root. The meaning is the same and there is no shame in saying that morals and ethics are based on spiritual convictions. The Republic is, moreover, the crucible where we can confront these spiritualitys. [[Applause on several benches of the LR group and a few benches of the LaREM group]] But these convictions are not just intimate: they are also social – as I said last week, and I insist on them. I think deeply, and in this I fundamentally oppose Jean-Louis Touraine, that this is not just about individual freedom: what is at stake in this relationship is the look at others, it is ourselves. We don't look at a dying person in the same way if we passed a law on assisted suicide or if we didn't vote for it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] The long companionship I had with Jean Vanier and with l'Arche makes me say that on Friday, when I opened the second house of l'Arche, I would feel better if I participated in an assembly that did not play the apprentice sorcerer on this subject. [[Mrs Agnes Thill and Mr Thierry Benoit applaud]] I say this forcefully, because I have a fear and a distrust about this law that differentiates me from many of you, including in my left-wing political family: I think that the risk not only of commodification, but also of a tailor-made factory, opening up to all demeasures, exists both upstream, because of the possible drifts in terms of the supply, purchase and selection of gametes, but also downstream, at the precise moment that we are debating today. This risk is that of leading to a reification of the person, to people designed to be tailor-made. This denies their identity, it denies these people themselves, which has absolutely dizzying consequences for society. Camus, whom I enjoyed hearing from a colleague earlier, said: "A man has to. It requires caution in case of doubt. However, all the interventions here express a doubt, the one that the NCCE has experienced on this specific issue and that it has not resolved. Our primary duty is that of ancient prudence and wisdom, a deeply human wisdom that must inhabit us. We are terribly human when we free ourselves from certain servitudes, and terribly human when we are able to give up crossing certain limits. These are two forms of humanization. Today we are called to live the second. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Yes, a man has to. We say "no god or master", but we have a history to learn from. Let's remember it. It is the history of the Second World War, of the night of Europe, which was also the night of humanity. And in 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights recalled that human beings were born free and equal in dignity and rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u209	If I may, I would point out that Albert Camus' exact quote is: "A man can't help it. But it's not very far from your point! Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u210	I won't make a quote to prevent me from making a mistake, Madam President! I just wanted to take the floor because my amendment was the subject of a sub-amendment. This one has been challenged but I do not dispute it, even if it is not from my benches. I am happy to do it because it makes sense, as long as it helps to lay down safeguards that everyone here would like to see even safer. To move away from what is not viable, by definition, is not to expect life. That is precisely the subject of this sub-amendment. I fully respect the arguments of those who are not in favour of the amendment or the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u211	Nor the socialists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u212	But let me say that I sometimes find them somewhat light. Some have invoked the precautionary principle, as can be done at any time and under any circumstances to oppose any amendment. Others have cited the risk that doctors may see what they do not have to see and may be tempted to say what they do not have to say. This seems to me, who have a lot of it, to show very little respect for the medical profession. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and some benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, among other arguments, I have heard that IPR-A should be abandoned for lack of reliability. We are entering into a series of really questionable statements. I wish we could have talked about the women involved, and we could have invoked for them the freedom to know, because science and technology allow it, and the freedom to choose. When a Down syndrome is diagnosed during pregnancy, 92% of pregnant women opt for a medical interruption of pregnancy. I wish they'd been allowed to make that choice sooner.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u213	The minister has the floor to close this exciting debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u214	I am not going to go back to the arguments put forward, which are neither light nor heavy. I don't think there's a Conservative clan and a progressive clan. I think this is an intimate decision that we all have to make tonight. I knew from the beginning of this bill's development that it would be the most fundamental and complex ethical issue. I see that you feel it the way I do, and I let the votes go.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u215	We shall proceed to the vote. I shall put to the vote sub-amendment No 2631.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u216	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 781, 1597, 1729 and 2437.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u217	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 89 Number of votes cast 84 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 32 Against 52
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u218	We come to sub-amendment No. 2632.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u219	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1812.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u220	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 82 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 29 Against 53
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u221	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-07-O1013.u222	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Vote by public vote on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Treaty between the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on Franco-German cooperation and integration; Vote by public vote, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution for a dynamic and forward-looking Franco-German friendship, serving Europe and for the swift and ambitious implementation of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on the modernization of the distribution of the press; Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
