ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u1	I should like to inform the National Assembly that the President took note of the cessation, on 25 February 2019 at midnight, of the term of office of MP for Mr.Adrien Taquet, appointed a member of the Government by decree of 25 January 2019. By a communication from the Minister of the Interior dated January 28, 2019, made pursuant to sections OL. 176 and LO. 179 of the Electoral Code, the President was informed of his replacement by Ms. Bénédicte Pételle, elected together with him for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u2	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u3	Mr Philippe Latomb, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 621, on corporate social responsibility in public procurement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u4	Corporate social responsibility – CSR – is increasingly a concern for decision-makers. It is a source of attractiveness and growth, and more and more French companies are taking part in this process. Mastering its ecological footprint, promoting recruitment, defining strong values, better taking into account stakeholders, are all benefits to be taken into account in a context of climate and social crisis. CSR has its roots in sustainable development. Transversal, it allows to take into account social and environmental aspects, economic sustainability, but also to integrate aspects of governance and relations with the territory. Recognized since 2010 in more than ninety-three countries, ISO 26000 sets out the fundamental principles of CSR: accountability and transparency. It also discusses seven core issues: governance of the structure, human rights, working conditions and relationships, environmental responsibility, loyalty of practices, consumer and consumer issues, communities and local development. The interest of private companies in CSR is growing. Labels, such as Lucie and B Corp, make these new commitments recognized by different audiences. In its report of 8 October 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – IPCC – alerts States to the consequences of climate warming above 1.5 degrees. To respond to this challenge, the state, territories, public partners and individuals, as well as businesses, must commit themselves. In addition, the Action Plan for Business Growth and Transformation – the PACTE – envisages introducing the concept of the company's social interest into law. The general interest requires companies to engage in societal responsibility. Promoting the integration of CSR criteria into public procurement would encourage the involvement of companies in CSR strategies. The second national action plan for sustainable public procurement – NAPAPD – established for the period 2015-2020 sets as a target that 25% of contracts awarded in a year include at least one social provision. According to Article 30 of Ordinance No 2015-899 of 23 July 2015 on public procurement, "the nature and extent of the needs to be met shall be determined precisely before the start of the consultation taking into account sustainable development objectives in their economic, social and environmental dimensions. » According to the Guide on the Social Aspects of Public Order, "the texts require [...] that sustainable development objectives be taken into account in the definition of needs, the term being understood broadly, as it includes three pillars to be reconciled: environmentally sustainable development, economic efficiency and social equity. » However, if social and environmental criteria are admitted into the public market, the same is not true for those relating to CSR. This is indeed the meaning of the decision of 25 May 2018 of the Council of State concerning Nantes Métropole. Since CSR is not sufficiently linked to the subject matter of the contract or to its conditions of performance, it therefore does not appear to be a public procurement criterion. Perceived as too broad, however, it is in this that his strength lies. It allows for a broader reflection and a transversality that is not possible only by taking social and environmental criteria into account. I would like to know if, for this reason, CSR could soon become a criterion for awarding public contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u5	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u6	The decision of the Conseil d'État raises questions about certain balances and the main objectives of public procurement, as recalled in the 2014 directive, which are all important. However, no conclusion should be drawn from this decision regarding the behaviour of the public purchaser in the coming years. This decision does not prohibit the use of CSR criteria; it only states that these criteria must relate to the subject matter of the contract. It must therefore not have the effect of cancelling the policies of local authorities and public purchasing policies which, for the next two years, have allowed the introduction of new social and environmental clauses, and new clauses of engagement, provided that they have – this is important – a direct relation to the subject matter of the contract. For this reason, the Government's road map for the circular economy is putting in place tools to enable the public buyer to put forward, in a circular analysis, environmental clauses related to the subject matter of the contract. Similarly, the 2014 Directive recalls that the public order can and must have an impact on work and on the territory and that, when social clauses are incorporated, they must be included within the scope of the object. I can assure you that Government has not made any recommendations to limit the inclusion of CSR in purchasing policies. On the contrary, as you will see in the coming weeks, the Union des groupes d'achat publique – UGAP – has committed itself to ensuring that the impact is better measured and that it occupies a more important place in French public procurement. We will all be very vigilant in the coming months, and we will verify that, in accordance with the spirit of the PACTE law, all the criteria determining the CSR qualification of a company are actually used in the public order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u7	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor to raise her question, No. 608, on the social rights of social law officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u8	My question is about the situation of our local law officers abroad – ADL – who are recruited by diplomatic and consular posts and represent about one third of the 4,500 local recruits from the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. These agents contribute in an essential way to the proper functioning of our public services in foreign countries but also to the influence of France on the international scene, as stated by the Defender of Rights in his conclusions but also, on several occasions, the representatives of the Ministry. If ADLs perform the same work as our public servants, they have no benefits or rights associated with this function. While their numbers are expected to continue to increase in the coming years, their situation remains precarious. The Law of 12 April 2000 on the Rights of Citizens in their Relations with Administrations provides that ADLs are legally subject to the arrangements of the countries in which they are recruited. This law sometimes runs counter to local law, which equates them with diplomatic agents whose status is governed by the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, which they are not. This interpretation results in legal difficulties preventing them from asserting their social rights in their country of residence. Moreover, as neither civil servants nor contract workers, our ADLs cannot, when returning to France, benefit from unemployment insurance, in particular from the temporary waiting allowance – ATA – and from the return-to-employment assistance allowance – ARE – as opposed to our contractual agents performing their duties abroad as part of a secondment or expatriation. This unfair situation has been brought to the attention of the department and the administrative judge. Recently, I have described it in detail in proposals 77 and 78 of the report on international French mobility which I submitted to the Prime Minister last September, without obtaining a response so far. When will the French State take the measure of what it owes to local law officials, more and more of whom are ensuring the functioning of our public services abroad? Will France continue to treat them condescendingly? And until when will we tolerate this multi-speed personnel management?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u9	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u10	The situations you refer to are often complex human situations. You have brought several of them to our attention in recent months, and others have been brought to my attention by your colleagues from abroad. In each case, we must stick to the law. However, I would not like this answer, which may seem a little cold and technical, to cast doubt on the Government's consideration for its international network and for all those who, under local contract, participate in the influence of France and make it exist beyond its borders. These persons have been recruited under different statutes. Pursuant to Article 34-5 of the Law of 12 April 2000 on the Rights of Citizens in Relations with Administrations, one of these statutes is local recruitment. It is then the rules of local law that apply. However, the protections afforded by this right differ from one country to another, and some agents sign a local contract with France in countries where no social protection exists. In this case, France behaves like a local recruiter. It enables those recruited to flourish in their work and to find conditions of employment which are often more respectful than those existing in those countries. However, when contracts come to an end, these people do not have the same protection as civil servants and do not benefit from unemployment insurance, as you have pointed out, or from the individual right to training if there are none in these countries. On the other hand, we are committed to those who, in these countries, do not even benefit from local law because of a lack of understanding of the nature of their contract. France will support and accompany these agents who find themselves in some way in a no man's land because the administration of the country concerned does not recognize their contract as a contract under local law. They are therefore not protected either by French law or by local law: to this problem we will provide solutions. In any event, we do not intend to go back to the use of contracts in local law, an opportunity offered to all our representations and which plays an important role in their operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u11	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u12	Thank you for your answer. I will not hide from you that our local law officers are waiting for an answer, because they do not understand that their status is so disadvantageous. I also note your consideration of them and thank you for the tribute you paid them. The tax situation, in particular, of ADLs is very complicated, since these agents receive their wages locally but are taxed as non-residents, which in many countries is not favourable to them. I thank you in advance for what you will do to help the ADLs. I will contact you again so that we can consider how it is possible to help them, after their return to France, to find a job but also the respect and consideration they deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u13	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor to put his question, No 605, on the protection of hunting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u14	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. Hunting is a passion firmly rooted in our rural territories, in our towns, in our villages. It has given rise to often lively debates, sometimes hijacked by militant associations, with caricatures. In the face of a decline in animal, floristic, fungal and genetic diversity among species that were once very common, many experts call for greater attention to and protection of ordinary nature. The Government is committed to the original and courageous approach to adapting our tools for maintaining biodiversity in France, which were no longer effective. The creation of a veritable rural police of proximity thanks to the merger of the Agence française de la biodiversité and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage is, in this respect, very satisfactory, as is the establishment of adaptive management for certain species. Such a pragmatic approach is fully supported by hunters who have often been the first to give the alarm about the disappearance of hedges, insects, sparrows or wetlands. The reform, arbitrated by the President of the Republic, is part of this desire to involve all the living forces of the rural world in the defence of the ordinary nature representing 80 per cent of our campaigns. The place of hunters, who had been excluded from the Grenelle from the environment, is therefore recognized. Because they are a source of innovative and common sense proposals, they have mobilized for the rapid ban on neonicotinoids. They also spoke out against the development of the grunts, which had become a plague in the territories. They expect the Government and the majority to engage in an ambitious policy of regaining rural roads, with local elected officials and federation presidents. Thus, President Willy Schraen, at the head of the National Federation of Hunting – FNC – is a pragmatic president, able to put all the actors around the table. Has the Government initiated negotiations with FNC to strengthen its efforts to protect ordinary biodiversity, which should be our priority? What are the Government's avenues for reflection on the engulfment of properties? It is a subject which, one day or another, will be at the heart of the debates, if it is not already.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u15	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u16	You interviewed Mr. François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The Government recognizes the important role played by hunters in the local economy and the maintenance of social ties in rural areas, as well as in the management of biodiversity and the regulation of large game populations that can cause significant damage. The Government intends to strengthen that role. Also, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, he reaffirmed his commitment to modernising the organization of hunting, in close consultation with hunter federations and stakeholders. To increase the attractiveness of hunting and the mobilization of hunters, who contribute to the control of large game populations where these species are too numerous, a reduction in the taxation of hunting permits was adopted in the 2019 Finance Act. The cost of this permit will thus increase from 400 euros to 200, starting with the next cynegetic season, which begins this summer. The bill establishing the French Biodiversity Office, amending the missions of the hunters' federations and strengthening the environmental police, adopted by your assembly in January, and to be debated in the Senate in April, is the legislative vector of the other measures envisaged in this reform. This includes organising the contribution of hunter's federations to concrete actions for biodiversity, such as habitat restoration, with €5 per validated permit. The implementation of adaptive management, which will allow for the limitation of species sampling according to their conservation status, will also contribute to the protection of biodiversity. The aim is also to improve the accountability of hunter federations in the management of cynegetic animals, to improve the integration of animal welfare in traditional hunting and to strengthen the rural environmental police. Following a mission entrusted to MP Alain Péréa and Senator Jean-Noël Cardoux, developments favourable to the reduction of the damage and the populations of big game will also be undertaken. Finally, the aim is to generalise and strengthen preventive and safety measures for hunting, for the benefit of all hunters, residents or walkers. You are worried about the phenomenon of engulfing properties, particularly sensitive in Sologne. A working group will be convened locally by the prefect of the Centre-Val de Loire region, involving the various stakeholders in order to identify the levers at the hands of the various actors – state, local authorities, hunters, owners – to limit this phenomenon, while respecting the right to property. If necessary, the Government will return to parliamentarians, with proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u17	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to put her question, No 611, on the fight against noise pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u18	It is a major nuisance that poisons the days and nights of many of our fellow citizens, a nuisance that we hear too little about, both in this House and in the media. I want to talk about the noise. 82% of French people say they are bothered daily by noise nuisances. These have become one of the first concerns of our fellow citizens, especially those in my constituency, who regularly alert me on this subject. And because: noise is a real public health issue! On February 9, Bruitparif published its report, as alarming as it is overwhelming, on the health impacts of transport noise in the dense area of the Ile-de-France region. The report estimates that no less than 90% of the city's inhabitants suffer from noise, and that more than 9 million people are exposed to noise levels higher than the World Health Organization's recommended values. We can no longer remain indifferent to this noise pollution, which causes on average almost eleven months of healthy life to the Francilians of the dense area, simply because of their exposure to noise pollution related to transport, both land and air. Noise is a factor in the deterioration of health; It has become the second environmental contributor to urban morbidity, after air pollution. And what about the social cost of these noise nuisances? The Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – and the National Noise Council estimated it to be 57 billion euros per year in 2016! The Hauts-de-Seine department, particularly the communes of Bagneux, Malakoff and Montrouge, located in my constituency, in the heart of the dense francilian zone, unfortunately do not escape this sad observation. The work related to the Grand Paris Express, the numerous urban construction sites, road traffic and congestion, the nuisances caused by the two-wheelers, the slowing down of many TGVs in the city centre, or the underground crossing are all noise nuisances that have become invivable, day and night, for too many citizens of my constituency, as for many other French citizens. If the public authorities have seized the subject, by framing the exposure to noise nuisances through noise exposure plans, the consideration of this scourge is insufficient in view of the health issue it represents. My question, to which I would like to associate my colleague from Val d'Oise, Zivka Park, is: in the face of this alarming observation, what measures does the Government intend to take, particularly in the context of the forthcoming review of the mobility policy bill, to better assess exposure to noise and to combat more actively these nuisances that pollute the daily lives of so many French people?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u19	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u20	You interviewed Mr. François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The nuisance caused by noise is too high for many of our fellow citizens. I would like to assure you that the Government, being fully aware of the difficult situations they cause, is working to reduce them, building on the measures of control integrated into the regulations, both European and French. For example, the 2002 European Directive on the assessment and management of noise in the environment requires Member States to carry out noise maps for major transport infrastructures and large agglomerations every five years. This stage of diagnosis must be followed by the adoption of a plan to prevent noise in the environment, in order to prevent or reduce the effects of noise, as well as to protect quiet areas. Unfortunately, we are lagging behind in the application of this directive. That is why we have fully mobilised the State services, so that they can carry out the plans for the prevention of noise in the environment which fall within their competence as soon as possible. In addition, for communities that would not have made this diagnosis, the Government has decided to implement the prefect substitution procedure, as provided for in the Environmental Code. In addition, in order to remove the noise black spots, which are buildings previously installed in a ground transport infrastructure with too high a noise level on the façade, the financing of the necessary works has been budgeted to the tune of €2.5 million. This funding from the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition takes over from the ADEME 'noise' competition fund, which was entirely spent in 2018. The creation of the acoustic certificate proves that acoustic regulation has been taken into account for residential buildings. The National Noise Council, in its opinion of 11 December 2018, made several recommendations for better implementation of this regulation. These must now be analysed with the assistance of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. Noise is fully integrated into the health and environment policy of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. It will of course be part of the themes included in the work of the future national plan "My environment, my health". Finally, concerning the peaks of noise generated by the passage of high-speed trains, a vast campaign of acoustic measurements on the high-speed lines Brittany- Pays de la Loire and South-Europe-Atlantique was carried out. In addition, I have given the General Council on the Environment and Sustainable Development the task of providing concrete responses to the difficult situations encountered by some residents of these two lines and of proposing, where appropriate, changes in noise regulations. The report will be available in the coming weeks. We will examine it with all the necessary attention and determine which proposals, including regulations, will be selected, with the objective of acoustic comfort for the residents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u21	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u22	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. Of course, in the fight against the major scourge of noise, you can count on the support of parliamentarians, as well as on the National Noise Council, which regularly formulates opinions. This advisory commission, of which I am a member, is under the authority of the Minister of State. You will also be able to count on parliamentarians, in the framework of the mobility guidance bill, to promote better consideration of noise, in particular by integrating peaks of noise and cumulation of noise, whereas noise nuisances are now characterized only by average noise levels. The measurement of peaks will better characterize the discomfort and health effects associated with nuisance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u23	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor to put his question, No 620, on air pollution in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u24	Like many cities in France, Strasbourg suffers from high air pollution – a problem at the crossroads of your responsibilities, Mrs Borne, and those of Mr de Rugy. This pollution can be described as a health emergency, as the effects of the main pollutants on health are known, especially those of fine particles, which cause respiratory problems and even mutagenic and carcinogenic effects. The inhabitants of Avenue du Rhin, in my constituency, are among the most affected by this situation, due to the passage of trucks and cars from and towards Kehl, Germany, on the other side of the Strasbourg bridge. It is therefore a priority to tackle transport-related air pollution. It is not normal for heavy goods vehicles, by thousands, to avoid the German tax introduced in 2005, to travel through the free Alsatian motorways and to travel on the national roads at a lower cost, and thus through the centre of Strasbourg. In this context, it is necessary to provide the means to intervene to monitor compliance with the ban on the transit of heavy goods vehicles, which was enacted in 2012. The amount of the fine is derisory and the checks do not dissuasive. It is therefore necessary to devise solutions that will necessarily be national, local and cross-border. This problem, so acute in Strasbourg, also concerns other agglomerations, and exposes France to a risk of significant financial condemnation by the European Commission for non-compliance with the limit values for pollution by nitrogen oxides. But, of course, we think first of public health issues for women and men living there. Madam Minister responsible for transport, what is your analysis of the situation, and what solutions can we jointly implement, knowing that the state, but also the local elected representatives, have a major role, which they must fully assume?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u25	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u26	You interviewed Mr. François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. Strasbourg's Eurometropole is among the fifteen cities and cities that committed themselves on 8 October 2018 to deploy or strengthen a low-emission zone in their territory by 2020. Low-emission zones – ZFE – are areas where access is restricted to the least polluting vehicles, on the basis of the Crit air sticker system available since 1 July 2016. This vignette, which has been issued for more than 12 million vehicles, makes it possible to distinguish these vehicles according to their emission class of air pollutants. This system will make it possible to improve air quality in our most polluted agglomerations on a sustainable basis. The establishment of an EFA is decided by the local authorities, which define its geographical boundaries, the categories and classes of vehicles concerned, the time arrangements, the progressivity of the rules over time and the derogations granted. This great flexibility makes it possible to adapt the scheme to the specificities of the territories. With the mobility guidance bill, the Government will facilitate the establishment of the EFAs. The aim is to amend the general code of local and regional authorities in order to strengthen the establishment of ZFEs, to facilitate the procedure for the implementation of these zones, and to introduce provisions which will allow the automation of controls and video-verbalisation. In addition, ADEME has launched a call for projects in order to provide financial support to the winning communities in order to prefigure the installation of the ZFEs, identify their conditions of success, and ensure the coordination and facilitation of the territory around the project. The Strasbourg Eurometropole project was selected among the winners of this call for projects. With regard to the postponement of transit traffic on the Alsatian motorways, in particular on the A35 crossing of Strasbourg, due to the introduction of a heavy goods vehicle tax in Germany, the ongoing reflections on the organisation of the Alsatian institutions address the question of the future of the national road network in Alsace. The dialogue with the elected representatives of Alsace will make it possible to define the best solutions to the challenges of the traffic of heavy goods vehicles on the A35, and the Parliament will of course be seized of the solutions that can accompany the creation of the European community of Alsace. All the departments of the Ministry, as well as the deconcentrated departments and ADEME, are mobilized to guarantee everyone the right to breathe an air that does not harm health and to facilitate, in particular, the creation of low-emission zones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u27	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u28	I note from your intervention that indeed many structural actions are in place. It is probably time, at the local level, to launch a genuine concerted action plan on air quality, including the identification of all these measures, precise indicators and equally precise actions, which local elected officials will be able to follow, in conjunction with the State services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u29	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor to put her question, No 609 concerning the project of public transport at the proper site of the Toulouse agglomeration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u30	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, to the status of the clean-site public transit project – TCSP – of the Toulouse agglomeration. Since the first declaration of public utility – DUP – in 2000, the latter has been subject to multiple blockages, followed by the subsequent cancellation of the tender procedure for non-compliance with advertising procedures, and the amending public inquiry leading to a new DUP in 2005. The choice, in 2006, of tramway as a mode of transport was confirmed in the urban travel plan adopted by the metropolis Toulon Provence Méditerranée in the same year, but contradicted by the announcement of the establishment of a bus with high level of service instead of the tramway, which, initially on rails, had to evolve towards a model on tires. The result of these blockages was to stop the work, while the Toulon Administrative Court cancelled, on 9 November 2012, the DUP amended in 2005, issued on the basis of a rail tram project, the abolition of which substantially affected the character of the operation originally planned. While land acquisitions are almost complete and metropolitan enterprises have already been heavily involved in the financing of the TCSP through the transport payment, the uncertainties, both legal and political, which weigh on this crucial issue for the Toulouse agglomeration allow a postponement of this structuring project after more than three municipal mandates, which constitutes a national record. Madam Minister, what ways and means could the Government use to allow the installation of a tramway on the Toulouse area, or perhaps to convince the mayor of Toulon, president of the metropolis, that it is about the environmental, economic and social survival of the metropolis of Toulon?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u31	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u32	The Toulouse agglomeration does not yet have public transport on its own site and the conditions of travel are difficult, despite the completion of the Toulon motorway tunnel in 2014. The implementation of public transport projects on a clean site seems to be one of the solutions to improve the situation. The decision is, however, the responsibility of the mobility organizing authority, namely the Toulouse metropolis, and not of the state. A tramway project between La Seyne and La Garde was presented to the State services in the 2000s. Aid had been agreed in 2005 and 2006 to support this project. Since then, as you indicate, there has been no significant progress. It seems that the metropolis now prefers a bus line with a high level of service – BHNS –, less capacitive but less expensive. A public inquiry will be necessary to act on the change of fashion with, at the key, a new declaration of public utility. It is once this procedure has been carried out that the BHNS project will be able to move forward. The State will be at the side of the agglomeration if it wishes to advance this project, since one of the Government's transport priorities is the improvement of daily transport. The planning of State investments, discussed in the framework of the mobility guidance bill, provides for the continuation of state aid for public transport projects on a clean site. A fourth call for projects could thus be launched after the 2020 municipal elections. New projects such as the Toulon BHNS will, if necessary, find their full place in this scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u33	Mr Fabrice Brun, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to his question No 614 on mobility in the Ardèche and modernisation of the RN102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u34	The Government has a dual priority in its transport policy: modernization of existing networks and day-to-day transport. Both for the major transport infrastructure projects, which you have abandoned as a new TGV station south of Rhône-Alpes, but so much better for the national road 102 because, in Ardèche, for the transports falling within the competence of the State, you will not have the embarrassment of choice! In fact, a unique situation in metropolitan France, our department has no motorway, no passenger trains, and only one national road, the RN102. At a time when Teil's lock is finally going to jump, thanks to the mobilization of all ardéchois parliamentarians, MPs and senators, the minister responsible for transportation, what are your intentions with regard to the modernization of the RN102? What state funds are programmed for this purpose in favour of the only national road in our department? Whether in the mobility policy bill or in the preparation of the state-region project contract – CPER – 2020-2025, the mobility of the Ardéchois should not be forgotten. More than twenty black spots have been identified since 2012 by the Regional Directorate of the Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – which has been waiting for a political order for seven years to, for example, secure the crossroads of La Fayette, correct corners in the coast of Mayres – one of the fifty most dangerous of France –, build the bridges of the Motte in Barnas and of the Leoune in Thueyts, realize the niche of the Teyre in Thueyts, where, in the 21st century, two trucks still do not cross, arrange the village entrances as in Lalevade at the Pont de Labeaume, secure the city coast in Aubenas, which is one of the most accidental points, concrete works, proposals that I cannot quote all, as in Labégude and elsewhere. Finally, it is necessary to put the RN 102 in the contemporary shape of a national road, because it constitutes the true backbone of the southern Ardèche and the ardéchoise mountain, an essential axis between the A7 motorway in the Rhône valley and the A75, which I invite you to prioritize, Madam Minister, in the service of the safety of users and the mobility of the Ardéchois.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u35	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u36	By serving the ardéchoise mountain, the RN102 is an important axis that connects the south-east of the Massif central to the Rhône valley, thus irrigating a vast territory. The State's road investment policy in Ardèche consists of a combination of actions, including the implementation of the Teil bypass, which is included in the current State-region plan contract in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, amounting to €63.8 million, of which €35.3 million is provided by the State. The first work began in September this year. This first phase will, in particular, allow a work to be carried out above the SNCF tracks and the two ends of the operation. Finally, construction of the Frayol viaduct is expected to begin in the second half of 2019. Beyond this, a route study was presented to elected officials in 2013. This study does not lead to the conclusion that there is a need for a systematic two-way widening of the axis, given the low level of traffic. Nevertheless, the study identified different unique points of the route that need to be addressed, in order to increase the level of service offered to users, to improve the comfort and safety of residents, or to enhance the tourist, landscape and heritage wealth of the RN102. A programme, covering a set of 14 priority adjustments, was presented for an amount of EUR 12 million. The current plan contract has not yet integrated them, unfortunately. The development of the Teyre turn east of Thueyts, however, appears to be the most priority operation. The amendment to the CPER, signed in October 2017, foresees the setting up of an envelope of 2 million from the only Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region for this operation estimated at 4.7 million euros. The finalization of the financing plan remains a prerequisite for its effective implementation. Finally, some developments have already been carried out by the interdepartmental management of the roads of the Central Massif, which provides maintenance and operation of the axis, or will be in the coming years. I therefore confirm that, in a heavily constrained budgetary context, the State services remain fully mobilized to advance the projects located on the RN102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u37	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u38	Thank you, Minister, for reminding us of the commitment of the Ardéchois to the deviation of the Teil, which is an important lock. Thank you also for recalling the region's commitment alongside the State, particularly on the Teyre niche, which is a particular black spot. If you want to accompany the mobility of the Ardéchois, it is important to invest, massively, credits on this national road, because, I repeat, there is no train, no motorway, no express roadway. I hope that, as part of the review of the mobility guidance bill, we will be able to address these dedicated means. Together with the Ardèche senators, we made a request for an appointment with you some time ago. I suggest that we meet quickly. You will see that we certainly know the constraints that I have exposed to you, but also that, in Ardèche, if we don't have a train, we have ideas! It will therefore be an opportunity to testify to the innovative capacity of our territory, particularly with the recent opening of the Mobility House in Aubenas. I'm still listening to you and your services to move forward together on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u39	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No 624, on the Clermont-Ferrand-Paris railway line.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u40	The Clermont-Ferrand-Paris rail axis is one of the three structuring lines of the balancing trains of the territories – TET – whose state remains the organizing authority. However, you know, for coming to Clermont-Ferrand, that this line has suffered from the policy of the all-GMT of successive governments, which completely ignored the service of the Auvergne, thereby reducing the attractiveness of the region by rail. Clermont-Ferrand is the most poorly connected French metropolis to the capital, despite its geographical position at the heart of major European trade flows. For several years, the ageing of the lines and cars has increased the travel time of the passengers and deteriorated the overall quality of the service. Imagine, it takes more time to connect Clermont-Ferrand to Paris or Lyon than ten years ago! Today, a programme of infrastructure regeneration between Paris and Clermont-Ferrand has finally been launched, with a budget of 760 million euros, which will only maintain the current level of service, without any reduction in travel time. In the master plan for the improvement of the line there is also the replacement of the trainsets, which is the subject of my question. This replacement with a more modern model will save time on the journey, as well as greater reliability of service and passenger comfort. The renewal of these trainsets is included in the mobility guidance bill. Yet the pace of its implementation is not yet confirmed: 2025, 2024, 2022? The Objective Capitales association, which brings together local authorities and the economic forces of the territory, such as large companies such as Michelin or Limagrain, defends the commissioning of these new trainsets by 2022. That is why, Madam Minister responsible for transport, I ask you whether the Government is prepared to give priority, within the draft law on the orientation of mobility, to the renewal of trains for the Paris-Clermont-Ferrand line within a reasonable time and compatible with the reality of the needs of our territories and its various actors, knowing that the project of LGV Paris Clermont is, we are sure, frozen for at least ten years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u41	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u42	I understand the impatience of the passengers of the Paris-Clermont-Ferrand line, the elected representatives and representatives of the economic world of the Auvergne. Be assured that improving this line is a priority for the State. This is why the 800 million needed to renew the rolling stock of the two lines Paris-Clermont-Ferrand and Paris-Limoges-Toulouse are included in the programming part of the mobility guidance bill. With regard to this new equipment, the tender procedure, conducted by SNCF Mobilitys on behalf of the State, is necessarily lengthy. The company must check in detail that the answers are up to the required technical performance, but also the desired high level of comfort. This time for analysis is required for railway equipment that will last at least 30 years. The Paris-Clermont-Ferrand line must be equipped with high-performance and comfortable equipment. The procedure is ongoing and is expected to be completed within the year. The Government is very attentive to the progress of this work. Once the contract is signed between SNCF Mobilitys and the selected manufacturer, a period of time will be required to develop this material and to certify it. Then the deliveries will take a little more than two years, at a rate of about one train per month. It will also be necessary to define the allocation of the trains between the two lines Paris-Clermont and Paris-Limoge-Toulouse, which will be intended to have a mutualised operation. In the meantime, the Government is working to improve the service of this service Paris-Clermont-Ferrand. For example, since February 1, 2019, all trains offer Wi-Fi to travellers. This is the first TET line to deploy this service. The improvement of quality on the Paris-Clermont-Ferrand line is also based on the forthcoming outline for the development of services, which will include the addition of an additional daily frequency, as well as on a programme for the modernisation of the infrastructure providing EUR 760 million of investment by SNCF Réseau on this line by 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u43	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u44	Madam Minister, I have taken note of the information you have provided us, particularly with regard to deadlines; This confirms what we already knew. With regard to the allocation of trains, which was the subject of my question, I would like to draw your attention to the particular situation in my region, in particular that of the Clermont metropolis, particularly in relation to the competing line, if I may say so. I mentioned a ten-year freeze on the project, but you and I both know that studies on the future high-speed line will last a very long time and that there is nothing to say that this line will actually come into being – personally, I doubt it. We are therefore in a particular situation in relation to this environment, and that is why I am insisting on the allocation of trains, so that this issue can be considered in the light of what already exists and what will exist tomorrow in the other regions. I would also like to mention, since we are in the middle of a debate on yellow vests, the question of mobility, which comes back with particular urgency. It is regularly mentioned, especially in the complaint books – I do not know if you have consulted them or if you have visited the site. As for Wi-Fi, I was on the train last night and I would like to inform you that this is not working, at least on the entire journey.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u45	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 625, on the TGV between Le Mans and Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u46	I would like to draw the Government's attention to SNCF's policy on the quality of high-speed train traffic between Le Mans and Paris, as well as to and from other major regional cities. Users, whether regular or occasional, see a deterioration in the quality of the service. There are many delays – again this morning, as well as yesterday – and their various causes: breakdowns, signal defects, works... According to a study published by the Autorité de régulation des activités rails et routières in December 2018, over the entire network, a quarter of the TGVs were delayed by more than five minutes in 2017. The service itself is random: replacing two so-called Atlantic trainsets with a Duplex trainset; cancellation of one TGV, accompanied by the proposal to take another, without guaranteed place but at a high rate. The rates are always as high: the price of a TGV ticket to make the Le Mans-Paris journey on Friday morning is located, for an adult who does not benefit from any discount, between 49 and 63 euros, which puts the round trip in the day at around 100 euros. The trains of the same train from or to Paris often run at different rates, while the journey is direct, without stopping between the two stations. I would therefore ask you, Madam Minister responsible for transport, to indicate what measures the State intends to take to ensure that SNCF, which is currently the only operator of high-speed trains on this part of the line, will improve the quality of the service and will reduce the average price and the median price of the ticket purchased by the inhabitants of Le Mans and Sarthe using the LGV line. I would also like to know whether the State intends to ask the operator to publish the median prices, so that they are known to SNCF users and customers, which would ensure a degree of tariff transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u47	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u48	Madam Member, you have asked me about the regularity and pricing policy of TGV services in your electoral district. Regularity of trains, which makes a decisive contribution to the attractiveness of rail transport, is at the heart of the priorities of all actors in the railway system and the Government. It depends not only on technical and organisational aspects related to the operation, but also on the state of railway infrastructure. With regard to operations, SNCF is conducting a broad programme to make transport plans more robust in the face of operational hazards. This programme is beginning to bear fruit. The group set itself the target of a second-to-second rate of almost 90% in 2019. In terms of investment in the national rail network, priority has long been given to new line projects, to the detriment of the maintenance of existing infrastructure. The State has now given priority to the maintenance and renovation of the existing network. The Government has thus committed itself to a considerable investment in rail transport; Over ten years, €36 billion will be devoted in particular to the renovation of the section of the rail network where traffic is highest. As far as tariff policy is concerned, I would point out that SNCF has management autonomy for its high-speed activity, while respecting the State's approval of price ceilings. In particular, this commercial freedom has enabled the deployment of an offer to attract additional travellers. This has been made possible, among other things, by the new toll policy that we have put in place. Indeed, as you know, when we arrived in the Government, the prospects for increasing tolls for TGVs were 4 to 5 per cent per year; we have stabilised them at inflation level, which has led us to recover for 35 billion euros of debt elsewhere. With this new toll policy, by 2020, 25 million passengers will be able to benefit from the low-cost offer of the Ouigo TGV. Half of these passengers would not have taken the train without that. The average ticket price fell by 8% between 2014 and 2018 and is expected to continue to decline. The Government is, of course, careful that competitive tariffs make TGV accessible to as many people as possible. A rate balance sheet is drawn up annually by SNCF Mobilitys, which allows the State to monitor the prices charged by the operator on TGV services. Thus it appears that, on the Paris-Le Mans route, the average price of a trip fell by almost 6% between 2012 and 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u49	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u50	Thank you, Minister, for the information and clarification you provided in your answer. Network maintenance is a necessary operation. Previously, I had been particularly involved in the issue of the new lines, and in particular those of the West, which were not necessarily necessary. I would also like to draw your attention to tariff policy. You say that the state is aware of the median prices charged by SNCF, but this is not the case for parliamentarians. I would therefore like you to communicate these median prices to us, so that we can obtain tariff transparency and pass this information on to our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u51	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne to put forward his question, No. 599, concerning the double-tracking of the Centre-Atlantic Europe road.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u52	The daily La Montagne recently echoed the postponement of the choice of the future dealership for the setting up of two tracks of the Central-Atlantic Europe road – RCEA – in the Allier, which revived the concerns of the Bourbonnais. It must be said that this case is very sensitive in our department, where this road has caused far too many deaths. The elected representatives, all sensitivities combined, accepted the setting up of two routes by concession in order to speed up the security of this road known as the "road of death". The RCEA is a major east-west cross-sectional link. It could also provide an important local service function and make a significant contribution to the attractiveness of the territories it crosses. Its traffic is 10,000 vehicles per day, with a particularly high proportion of heavy goods vehicles, of the order of 45%. This means that safety issues are high and that work must be started as soon as possible. The initial schedule had been delayed. However, it now seemed stalled. We will not accept that the project will be delayed again. Anger may succeed impatience. The inhabitants of the Allier are overwhelmed by these successive postponements, especially since it does not appear that much attention is being paid to the RN7. Indeed, two major national roads cross in the Allier. One of the conditions for the support of elected officials to the concession project was that the funds that should have allowed the improvement of these two roads should have been spent in full on the RN7. What about the minister in charge of transport? I recall the other two conditions issued by the elected representatives: free of charge for local users and maintenance of all exchangers. Since 2007, when the concession project was launched, ministers have succeeded each other, as have challenges and postponements, but on the ground, the expectations of elected officials and citizens have remained the same. Therefore, in the name of respect for the inhabitants of the Allier, I would like to know whether the Government can assure that the postponement of the choice of the concessionaire will not result in a delay in the delivery of this equipment, originally scheduled for 2021. When will the dealer's choice be known? Can you assure me that the means necessary to improve the RN7 in the Allier will be well on the rendezvous?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u53	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u54	I assure you, Mr. Member, that the Government shares the concern of the people of Allier about the road safety issues associated with the Central-Atlantic Europe road. We are determined to ensure that this axis can be secured as quickly as possible. This is a priority of the Government and that is why the pause that accompanied the work of the Infrastructure Guidance Board in 2017 had no impact on this project. A call for tenders is under way to designate the future dealership of the section between Sazeret and Digoin. This project should be carried out on the basis of the best possible offer, in particular for the benefit of the users, the residents and the various actors of the Allier territory. As a result of the analysis of the initial offers, I did indeed wish to request new offers from two candidates, not one. As a result, negotiation meetings were held with the Department's departments during January 2019. Both candidates are scheduled to submit improved offers next Thursday, March 7. You will understand that I cannot give you more information, in order to ensure legal certainty and the efficiency of the procedure. Once the concession contract has been signed, the work will proceed according to the schedule proposed in the selected tender. With regard to the development of the RN7, the current State-region plan contract in the Allier department provided €56.4 million in road investment, of which €53.5 million was provided by the State. At this stage, more than EUR 50 million has already been consumed. While the southern section of the Varennes-sur-Allier diversion, at a cost of 44 million euros, was commissioned in December 2016, work is currently continuing on the construction site, nearly 7 kilometres long, of the Villeneuve-sur-Allier diversion, for an amount of 56 million euros. The commissioning is announced for the first few months of next year. In total, the State will have invested a substantial amount of EUR 100 million to complete these two deviations. The development of the RN7 will then continue with the diversion of Bessay-sur-Allier and the Trevol Bar, whose studies are to be conducted later this year. The Government is therefore particularly mobilized to secure and improve the national road network in Allier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u55	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u56	I am pleased to learn that the two successful candidates are due to submit their offer on March 7, that is, next Thursday. Can you tell us, Madam Minister, what will be the time between the submission of the offer and the response, which will reassure all the actors in the department? I would like to stress the issue of the development of RN7. You mentioned the connection between Villeneuve-sur-Allier and Trevol, which is 2.5 kilometres. It is quite logical that the work should be carried out as a result of Villeneuve-sur-Allier's bypass, but we have no assurance today that they will be well engaged. All we know is that studies are under way. However, it is known that this sometimes takes time between studies and the start of work. This is the same problem with the bypass of Bessay-sur-Allier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u57	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor to put his question, No 604, on airport charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u58	Madam Minister responsible for transport, I would like to ask you about a matter that is very close to my heart and which affects my constituency, on which Toulouse-Blagnac airport is located. As you know, the national air transport bases will soon make their conclusions, following rich and often heated debates. However, today we are in a state of uncertainty, particularly with regard to the future of airport taxation. The airport ecosystem is subject to more than 20 air transport-specific taxes, charges and levies. These taxes amounted to EUR 4.8 billion in 2017. A charge particularly affects the economy of French air transport: the airport charge. Its tariffs are set at each airport by a multi-annual regulatory framework, the economic regulation contract. In recent years, however, these charges have often increased, increasing the competitiveness of the sector. Among the first ones concerned are passengers, of course, but we must not forget the carriers and the actors who work every day to guarantee quality services and infrastructure. Our ecosystem is running out as competition from air markets is fierce. New hubs, like Dubai, will be tomorrow's platforms. In the next twenty years, it is estimated that the number of passengers will have doubled, reaching eight billion people. In order to absorb this traffic, France must strengthen the economic role of its airports with adapted and more differentiated charging methods. It is about the connectivity of our territories and our global attractiveness. Differentiating charges according to the needs of the territories, strengthening cooperation between all actors and guaranteeing the independence of the regulator are the three conditions for ensuring economic and social viability of the airport. At the same time, it is essential to ensure a better shift in investment. This is why the single cash system will have to be privileged not to leave out any business, whether commercial or operational: each of these activities, as we all know, serves the performance of our airports. So, minister, my question is simple: can you tell us more about the new provisions envisaged to ensure attractive French air transport, serving passengers and employment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u59	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u60	I agree with you, honourable Member, that the level of airport charges is an important issue for the economy of French air transport. This major subject has been the subject of work at the National Air Transport Foundations, whose conclusions I will present this Friday, 8 March. You highlight three areas of action to improve the economic and social viability of the largest airports. With regard to the development of cooperation between actors in the airport ecosystem, consideration of the opinion of the airlines will be strengthened, in particular on the investment choices and economic regulatory contracts concluded by the State with the major French airports. In the area of regulation, your assembly will shortly, in a new reading, consider the draft law on business growth and transformation, says PACTE. In this context, the Government will propose to the National Assembly, as you wish, that it be empowered to transform airport charges into an independent administrative authority by order of the Independent Supervisory Authority and to strengthen its powers. You also ask that airport charges be differentiated according to the needs of the territories. Airport operators already have a great deal of freedom to conduct, in terms of charges, a commercial policy adapted to the challenges of the territory, obviously within the limits of the principles governing charges for services rendered. Finally, the single fund will remain the standard for regulating charges at major regional airports. It allows commercial activities to participate in the financing of aeronautical activities. However, while respecting the law of concessions and preserving the interests of each of the air transport operators, limited adjustments to the cashier model must remain possible on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u61	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to put his question, No. 626, on the regulation of the sale of dressage collars.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u62	I would like to associate with my question the fifty co-signatories of my bill of 25 July, which aims to prohibit the over-the-counter sale of dressage necklaces. [[Mr. Meyer Habib shows a pointed necklace]] What's this about? Imagine that in 2019, point collars or electric stimulation collars are used by masters for dressing or, more broadly, to exercise control over their dog. The pointed collar is a metal chain, composed of tips that penetrate into the dog's skin, wounding it to the blood if it pulls on the master's leash. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I will briefly show this item. It's simply intolerable. As for the electric collar, it's worse. It is a kit consisting of a necklace and a remote control to operate it remotely. Most remote controls offer several functions: one button for the audible alarm – first warning –, one button for the vibrator – second warning – and another button for electric shocks of variable intensity. Yes, electric shocks! I want to share with you an anecdote that motivated my bill. Last June, walking Kooper, my daughter's inu shiba, in the park at the bottom of my house, I met a little beagle dog, totally harmless, who just wanted to play with my dog. The master, busy at lunch on the grass, operated by remote control the dressage collar by electrical stimulation attached to the animal's neck. The dog started to moan, then yelling in pain for tens of meters running to his master as quickly as possible, so that it would stop. I can't forget the distressing screams of an animal. We, the legislator, cannot allow such practices to continue. The suffering and trauma caused by the use of these necklaces are well documented. A study carried out in Belgium by 2600 veterinarians has thus concluded that 26 per cent of dogs who are victims of electrically stimulated collars exhibit tenfold fear behaviour; Among them, 17% are traumatized and 14% have severe burns in the neck. I did not expect to receive hundreds of messages of support and testimony after I introduced my bill. I read to you, for example, Ms.Ingrid Mulson's e-mail, a canine educator: "As a professional, I can only thank you for this bill. I would add that beyond the physical suffering felt by the animal, these tools generate many emotional sufferings, which cause behavioural problems ranging from the distress acquired to the bite. » A society is also judged by its relationship to animal suffering. For this reason, many of our European neighbours have already banned the over-the-counter sale of the necklaces we are talking about: Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Denmark and Slovenia, to name but a few. Article 515-14 of the Civil Code, which emerged from the Act of 28 January 2015, recognizes animals as "living beings endowed with sensitivity". Animal welfare is a growing concern for the French. According to an FIFG poll published in June 2018, 95% of our citizens want as well as "acts of cruelty committed against an animal are condemned throughout the French territory". Today, therefore, we must take action, Madam Minister responsible for Transport. That is why I call for the Government to prohibit without delay, or at least to strictly supervise, the sale of these torture tools, the use of which undermines our ethical sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u63	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u64	Mr Didier Guillaume, Minister for Agriculture and Food, who could not be present this morning, asked me, Mr President, to answer you. Article 7 of the European Convention for the Protection of Pets is effectively reflected in French law in Articles R. 214-17 and R. 214-24 of the Rural and Maritime Code. According to the latter article, "the carrying out of the activities of education and dressing of a pet in conditions likely to inflict unnecessary injury or suffering on the pet is prohibited. » Article R. 214-17 prohibits "the use, except in cases of absolute necessity, of fastening or restraint devices as well as fences, cages or more generally any form of detention unsuitable for the species concerned or liable to cause injury or suffering". In addition, the Order of 25 October 1982 on the rearing, keeping and holding of animals states that "in no case, in the case of a dog attached to it, shall the collar be constituted by the chain of attachment itself or by a collar of strength or strangler". Thus, unless necessary, the use of point collars or, to a lesser extent, electric collars for dressage is contrary to the regulations I have just mentioned. However, the use of such collars can be tolerated in a few special cases, provided that their necessity is demonstrated in view of the inappropriate or dangerous behaviour of the dog. In addition, in order to step up the fight against animal abuse, the recent law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all, promulgated on 1 November 2018, introduced a doubling of the penalties, increasing them from six months to one year in prison and from 7500 to 15,000 euros in fine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u65	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u66	The necklace I showed, Madam Minister, was bought no later than yesterday. I will return it, because it was simply for me to demonstrate, beyond your explanations that I hear, that it is now possible to freely buy electric shock collars – for 80 euros – or at points – for 25 euros. So there's obviously a contradiction between your words and reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u67	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 622, on the strengthening of the French metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u68	From the beginning of the quinquennium, the President of the Republic and the Government expressed the wish to strengthen the role of metropolitan areas. Today, France has four local administrative levels, which share different competences: the commune, the intercommunality, the department and the region. With this stacking of administrative levels, shared skills and cross-financing are often unreadable to the citizen, which undermines the effectiveness and understanding of the public action of the territories. To remedy these problems in the largest cities in France, the Government has envisaged a merger of the metropolises with the departmental councils on the territory of the metropolitan institutions. Future electoral deadlines, beginning with the 2020 municipal elections, were a time-consuming constraint for this project, which they required to be completed by 2019 at the latest. However, after initial consultations on the subject, all the local and regional authorities concerned gradually withdrew from the process. Despite this withdrawal, the problems remain, and it seems to me that the reflection must continue without stopping at too formal a calendar contingencies. First of all, therefore, I would like to have on your part, Mr. Minister responsible for City and Housing, a detailed account of the ongoing consultations with the elected representatives and the communities concerned with the subject of metropolization, of the territories chosen to move forward in this direction and of the new timetable for the reform. Then I want to address the crucial issue of the geographical scope of future strengthened metropolitan institutions. Created following the MAPTAM law – modernisation of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises – of 2014, the current metropolises unfortunately do not always cover a coherent territory from the socio-economic point of view. For example, the territory of Toulouse Métropole, which I know well, does not coincide with the urban area of Toulouse. In order to create real metropolises that are attractive to the European Union – and, in the case of Toulouse, attractive also to the Mediterranean basin and the Iberian peninsula – it seems crucial to reflect first and foremost on their perimeter, in order to give them all the desired efficiency. With a view to possible future reform, I would therefore like to know in detail the mechanisms envisaged to address this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u69	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u70	You are questioning, Mr Lagleize, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities on the important issue of metropolization, and therefore the planning of our territory. You're absolutely right. First of all, it is not necessary to oppose the metropolises to the rest of the territory: if the metropolises are an asset to our country, they are also, at the same time, because they are surrounded by other types of territory; It is from their combination with the latter that a dynamic and the added value of a territory can result. You have also mentioned the institutional aspect: whether or not to merge, in particular, a number of metropolises with other institutional levels, of which you have recalled the complexity? In particular, you talked about the merger between metropolises and départements. The President of the Republic and the Government have committed themselves: such mergers are only possible if they emerge from a project, from the wishes of the local actors themselves. On the basis of the consultation on the subject, it emerged that such mergers were not desirable in a large number of cases. Several reports or studies are under way; I am thinking in particular of the report on the territory of Marseilles which the regional prefect must submit to the Prime Minister in the next few days. Finally, in the vast majority of cases, the local will was rather not to go towards these new institutional forms of merger. But it really needs to be done from the territory. The third element you put forward is the question: if there is ever a merger, so a new perimeter, how do we organize the territory? For my part – it echoes what I said when I started – I deeply believe in the need for coordination between all the territories of the same basin of life or employment. In territories you know well, there have been reciprocal agreements and contracts; It is quite rare: apart from Toulouse, Brest is for the moment the only one where such a contract could be signed. But this contract between territories is, in my view, indispensable. The Government is therefore pushing for this. It is possible between a metropolis and the rest of its territory, but also between the metropolis and the department where it is located, as in Toulouse. I repeat, we must start from the local dynamics; However, it must be possible to take concrete action in the context of inter-territory contractual arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u71	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to put his question, No. 618, on the institutional reform of the Greater Paris metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u72	The lack of a government response to the institutional reform of the Greater Paris metropolis – MGP – creates great uncertainty as to how the territorial public institutions will be financed, EPT. The mayors of my constituency and department, members of the EPT Paris Terres d'Envol, which includes the cities of Aulnay-sous-Bois, Drancy, Dugny, Blanc-Mesnil, Bourget, Sevran, Tremblay-en-France and Villepinte, are waiting for concrete answers that will finally give the EFA a viable economic model. Today, it is the municipalities that are called upon to contribute to the financing of EFAs through the transferred expenses compensation fund – FCCT – the only financial flow that the law has foreseen. However, this financial system leads to blockages, particularly when the powers transferred by the municipalities, for example the management system, require heavy and fluctuating investments over time. In the context of the transfer of the town planning authority to the EPT Paris Terres d'Envol, the question arises precisely of the financing of the deficits of certain planning operations as provided for in the urban planning code. These participations can only be offset by the financial flow of the FCCT, which considerably affects the budgets of the municipalities, which are also engaged, for some, in a process of contracting with the State. This is a striking example of the total inadequacy of the financial model set up within the framework of the Greater Paris and linking the different communities. Minister, what leads are we looking at in your department to finally give the EFA real room for financial manoeuvre? The NOTRE law, which created the latter, was passed in 2015; We are in 2019 and the grants corresponding to the property contribution of the companies, the main resources of the EFA, will no longer be paid to them in 2020. It's high time to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u73	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u74	Mr President, I share your concern and concern about improving the readability of the financial and institutional framework of the Greater Paris metropolis. The territory that you defend with great energy has been profoundly changed following the NOTRE law: the introduction of different institutional strata – up to six – has led to a new division of powers, but also raised questions of resources and taxation. Of all the EPCIs concerned, only the MGP, in fact, has been, since 2016, a single professional tax EPCI. This raises the question of the financing and sustainability of the revenues of other structures, in particular EFAs. This is a subject that you and several of your colleagues discussed at length during the last review of the finance bill. At that time, there was a question of going back to certain resources, including the provision of intercommunal resources, but we chose – and you voted in this direction – to keep it for the benefit of the EFAs. It was a precautionary measure – I think it is important to call it this – which amounted to about 55 million euros. It has both positive and negative aspects; You have also highlighted the limits of the system. We have also made a second commitment: that of working this year to ensure the readability of the device before the end of 2019, that is, as part of the finance bill for 2020. It is indeed, as you rightly recalled, the next deadline for finding ways and means of real legibility on financing issues – especially since the EFAs have been delegated new competences, including that of planning, which you have mentioned. These territories, with which I work every day, are among those that act for the daily life of the French – one could have mentioned among their prerogatives, besides the development, the waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u75	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u76	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have noted your concern for readability. So we have an appointment at the next PLF. This is all the more important given that some municipalities are making considerable efforts, particularly in the context of contracting with the State, thus showing their goodwill: it would be a shame to penalize them. I therefore count on your commitment to making progress on this issue at the time of the 2020 FLP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u77	Mr Raphaël Gérard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to his question No 601 on the construction of social housing in the coastal communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u78	Minister, I would like to share with you the daily difficulties faced by the mayors of the small rural communes in my constituency with regard to the rules for setting up fire stations and reserves. According to article L. 2212-2 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, the external defence against fire is placed under the authority of the mayor by virtue of his police power. The law on simplification and improvement of the quality of the law of 17 May 2011 and the decree of 25 February 2015 on external fire defence have clarified the legislative and regulatory framework of the obligations of the municipalities by providing for different levels of decree. The aim of the redesign was to take a realistic approach taking into account local circumstances, identified risks on the ground and water needs. I fully subscribe to this logic: we must stick as closely as possible to the realities of our territory. That is why I would like to draw your attention to the rules laid down by the decree of 17 March 2017, which does not take sufficient account of the territorial realities of Charente-Maritime. The obligation to respect a maximum distance of 400 metres between a new dwelling and a fire hydrant gives rise to a great deal of stress given the specific characteristics of the carentais vernacular habitat, particularly scattered, which means that fire reserves in hamlets must be multiplied. According to Article L. 2321-2 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, expenditure on fire and rescue services is a compulsory expenditure of the municipality. However, in the face of the dispersal of housing, small rural communes with low resources, like Rioux, are unable to bear the financial burden that they have to bear. In addition, the municipalities' compliance with their obligations is hampered by the lack of land available for the establishment of reserves. In this context, several municipalities are unable to issue building permits: in accordance with the provisions set out in article L. 421-2-1 of the Urban Planning Code, the building permit is issued by the mayor, who is responsible, also under article 2212-2 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, "to put an end, through the distribution of the necessary relief, to calamitous accidents and scourges [...] such as fires [...]". Therefore, the municipalities in my constituency, including Saint-Martin-d'Ary, are mainly asking for more time to comply with their obligations, so that they can study the feasibility of the projects and identify suitable land and sources of funding. I therefore ask you, Minister, to consider greater flexibility in the application of these rules in order to reconcile the security imperatives with the geographical reality of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u79	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u80	The subject you are addressing, Mr. Member, is very complicated. For our role for all, legislators and the executive, is above all to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, the first freedom, whether it be in the event of a disturbance to public order or at the time of tragedies such as fires. I take this rostrum to commend the courageous action of our relief forces, including the firefighters. I was with them a few weeks ago, during the dramatic fire in the 16th arrondissement of Paris: we witnessed their professionalism and courage. I have no doubt that everyone here joins in this tribute. To return to your question, it concerns the link between the safety rules and their application in certain territories whose specific features of construction can go so far as to prevent the realization of a construction project or the implementation of the rule. This point calls for a number of comments. First, in some municipalities, construction is made impossible by other urban planning rules: it is the scattered nature of the habitat that prevents compliance with the March 2017 decree you cited. In the face of this problem, under the ELAN law, we have allowed the densification of "deep teeth" in the municipalities near the coast, thus avoiding spreading and, thus, both the artificialisation of the soil and the difficulties that you refer to. It's important. The second aspect is the territorialization of our policies. What is certain is that what is imposed everywhere does not, by definition, take sufficient account of the specificities of each territory. When you are a housing minister, I can tell you, it is a great difficulty: you have on your desk a map of the real estate areas, but all areas B2 are subject to the same policies, whether they are located near the coast, in the mountains or in the plains. We must therefore move towards territorialization. This is the subject of the reform of the Constitution which will soon be discussed. Finally, to what extent can orders such as the one you cite be implemented while taking into account the specific territorial characteristics? This is a matter for the Minister of the Interior, I will speak to him about your request and I will come back to you to give you a more precise answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u81	The next item is the question by Mrs Sophie Panonacle, No. 607, on security reinforcements in the Arcachon basin in summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u82	From 24 to 26 August, France will host the G7 summit in Biarritz. This exceptional event, the holding of which in our territory honours our country, will bring together many heads of State and Government as well as many actors of civil society, in accordance with the desire of the President of the Republic to involve citizens closely. The organization of this international meeting necessarily includes a considerable security component upstream of the summit, during its duration and after its holding. Thousands of police and military personnel will be mobilized to protect participants and residents and to ensure their safety. My fear, Minister, is that this year you will reduce temporary support staff in the Arcachon Basin by using them to secure the G7. As you know, the two police and gendarmerie areas that cover the district of the Arcachon basin are being reinforced by the gradual deployment of half a company of CRS and half a gendarmerie squadron, which represents dozens of women and men. These additional means of security are essential in an ultra-tourist territory which has its population increased threefold in the summer, from 130000 to more than 400000 inhabitants. Minister, despite the organisation of the G7 summit in August, can you confirm to me the maintenance of the summer security system in the Arcachon Basin and the details of it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u83	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u84	Your question concerns the reinforcements that we deploy to secure tourist places whose attendance increases periodically in an exceptional way, as is the case with the Arcachon Basin. The Ministry of the Interior is particularly careful to adapt its resources to these seasonal realities. For example, at present, we are providing reinforcements to ski resorts prone to peaks of use. We must also deal with other phenomena. All law enforcement agencies are currently mobilized every Saturday throughout the country, with the result that their presence in other places is weakened. In the ski resorts, which I have just mentioned, for example, we must provide compensation by over-mobilising reservists in gendarmerie areas, in order to be well present. So we have to "juggle" with the workforce. However, I will make it clear that under no circumstances will the mobilization necessary to ensure the security of the G7, that of the Heads of State and Government, but also the security of all the G7s that will take place throughout the year – the first, that of the Ministers of the Interior, held in Paris, followed by that of the Foreign Ministers in Dinard – be at the expense of the security close to our fellow citizens. The question you ask me more directly concerns the mobilization of SRCs in surveillance activities, in this case lifeguard lifeguards – MNS. We know the importance of the presence of the CRS, which historically participate in such a system. But this is not a mission of the CRS itself. Legal and budgetary questions have been raised by the Court of Auditors with regard to the provision by the State of staff for which they bear only a reduced share of the costs. What matters to me is that our security forces are as close to the ground as possible in their traditional exercise – which is not necessarily the case with beach surveillance, especially since the SRCs must combine their intervention with employees hired, seasonal or non-seasonally, by local authorities. In any case, for this year too, I have hoped that the current arrangements will be maintained, even though my predecessor has announced that they will be abolished. However, this system should remain exceptional and should not be used to compensate for recruitment difficulties in specific sites. Also, concerning Arcachon, a CRS force will be well present on the spot to accompany the security of the beaches which, I would remind you, is under the responsibility of the mayors and not of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u85	Mrs. Sophie Panonacle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You have indeed stressed the very great mobilization of the security forces at the moment. I'm delighted to have the CRS-MNS on the beaches. However, this will not be enough to accompany the forces already deployed, in very insufficient numbers, since, I would remind you, we are increasing from 130,000 to 400,000 inhabitants each summer; But the CRS are posted on only a few beaches in Pilat. In addition, the nightlife, at this time, is more intense. So I am counting on you to assure us a minimum of reinforcements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u87	Mr Mounir Belhamiti has the floor to put his question, No. 602, on police reinforcements in the metropolis of Nantes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u88	Minister of the Interior, when he came to Nantes last July following urban riots, the Prime Minister announced reinforcements to ensure respect for public order. In addition, the State has committed itself to intensifying law enforcement activities in the city centre of Nantes in the evening and at night, as well as to assigning, as of April 2019, an additional 20 police officers to the daily security police. I welcome this approach. These reinforcements are essential. Our law enforcement forces are mobilized to deal with spillovers during violent demonstrations, and we had the demonstration of their professionalism last Saturday again. But we also measure the need for personnel to ensure daily safety in all the neighbourhoods of our metropolis. My visit to the central police station in Nantes last Thursday allowed me to take all the measure. In fact, in parallel with the demographic boom in the whole of the Nantes metropolis, there is evidence that insecurity and delinquency are not confined to the neighbourhoods of "reconquer republican" – QRR – targeted during the creation of the daily security police – PSQ. Incivilities, trafficking and rodeos do not know the boundaries of administrative zoning. The murder with a stabbing weapon, which occurred last Wednesday in the North Nantes neighbourhood, in a square well known as a point of drug trafficking, reminds us cruelly. That is why I ask you what specific personnel and arrangements will be deployed in these territories that are not part of the daily security police – I am thinking of Nantes Nord, Breil or Clos-Torreau – but which are also facing major security challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u89	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u90	It is essential that we can invent an appropriate response on a daily basis, in every neighbourhood of Nantes, but also in rural areas. I want a police force and a gendarmerie that is tailor-made, taking into account the realities. We do not intervene in the same way in the Arcachon basin, depending on whether we are in winter or summer; and we do not intervene in the same way in the Arcachon basin and in certain districts of Nantes on a daily basis. That is why we have set up the daily security police, which, in some neighbourhoods, can decline in different ways and be strengthened in the areas of republican reconquest. These are not just human means; It is also a way of doing things, a way of involving all actors. I am firmly convinced that, in each neighbourhood, I would say almost stairwell by stairwell, it is all the actors who must intervene. This raises the question of the place of the school, local communities, sports or cultural associations that are all actors likely to accompany a neighbourhood, a village, a city in the prevention and management of the security risk. Nevertheless, there are territories, neighbourhoods in which tensions are greater. In Nantes, while I recently announced a QRR-related reinforcement, today there are twelve neighbourhoods that are the subject of a specific roadmap. And that's what the daily security police do. We strengthen its means, we strengthen its presence. Please be aware that the population of the public security district of Nantes has reached 1,077 to date, not to mention the territorial intelligence officers. The needs are real and both the inhabitants and the elected representatives – and you yourself, Mr. Member of Parliament, have spoken to me in this regard – have told us of the need to obtain a strengthening of the law enforcement forces. As I have announced, I confirm this strengthening: from April onwards, thirty-nine additional ranks and peacekeepers will be mobilised. My goal is to compensate for all retirements. We announced reinforcements, which in fact were only replacements. Here, no. The aim is to compensate for all the departures and to provide twenty additional agents for the republican reconquest district Bellevue-Dervallières-Malakoff of Nantes-Saint-Herblain, which is currently in place. The idea is really that the PSQ can work everywhere and that, in some neighbourhoods, thanks to the flexibility of management available to operational leaders on the ground, one can adapt a response taking into account the realities, the tensions observed at a given time or in a given geographical area, or in a more permanent and wider way, and which require both material and method reinforcements. Too long, it was thought that the answer was quantitative in nature. More police officers in the field, of course, are important, but there is also a need to act in terms of resources, working conditions, which are linked to the state of vehicles, police stations and gendarmerie. We placed an order for 5600 new vehicles for 2019, launched a €900 million investment programme to improve the working conditions of our gendarmes and police officers. Of course, Nantes must benefit from such accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u91	The floor is open to Mr François Ruffin to put forward his question, No. 597, concerning the confiscation of a work by a graffiti artist.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u92	First of all, Mr Castaner, I would like to say my surprise: I had addressed my question to the Minister of Culture, who was to sit for the Government, and I find myself with, in his place, the Minister of the Interior. I came to talk about art and they sent me the police! Maybe it's a good symbol of Emmanuel Macron's France. We had a young, open, start-up candidate, and we're meeting with the baton, the Flash-Ball and the lacrymos gas. It reminds me of this May 1968 poster: "The police talk to you every night at 8 p.m. » In short, let's turn to my question, Minister of Police and Communications. The French no longer feel represented, starting with this assembly: on these benches, the workers-employees make up only 2.7% of the deputies, when the CSP+, doctors, lawyers, directors of human resources – HRD –, consultants, teachers, journalists, etc., trust almost every seat. Our parliament, however, claims to be "national representation". It's actually "organized misrepresentation" This "irrepresentation" also applies to the media. The last barometer-diversity of the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel – CSA – bears witness to this: "The representation on the air is very far from reality," he notes, adding: "The Council observes a near absence of people in precarious situations. On the other hand, "88% of the people shown in the information subjects belong to the CSP+": doctors, lawyers, HRD, consultants, teachers, journalists... as here. This leaves 12% to be shared between workers, employees, pensioners and the unemployed. The majority of France is made invisible. Yellow vests are also a response to this "irrepresentation". We come to put on a fluorescent chasuble, visible until the night ; We come to occupy the roundabouts because, otherwise, we don't exist, because media and elected people don't hear us, don't see us. So, Mr. Minister of Police and Communications, what do you intend to do to ensure that workers, employees, retirees, unemployed, social workers, self-entrepreneurs, disabled people, single mothers... have a voice on radio and TV, so that they can be left better than crumbs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u93	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u94	Mr Member – I call you this way because I do not need to caricature your title: that of a Member of Parliament is an honour, and there is no reason to change it – the role of Minister of the Interior is important in our institutions, but we are taking it, as I am doing myself, on a very temporary basis – a little like that of a Member of Parliament, for the rest. I myself was elected as a Member of Parliament against a candidate from unsolicited France who won 35% of the votes cast, which gives me some legitimacy to speak to you. I could also talk to you about culture. We could, if you wish, exchange on Soulages, on the latest representation of the Swan Lake, in the version of Noureev, produced at the moment at the Opéra Bastille... Be aware that a minister of the interior may also be interested in culture. In fact, in my previous professional life, I served the Ministry of Culture for a few years. The principle of oral questions without debate is that the purpose of oral questions should be specified so that the minister concerned can answer them. Instead, your question should have been addressed to the minister responsible for relations with Parliament, since it concerns the diversity of national representation and the representation of social diversity in the media.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u95	No! I'm asking you about the absence of workers and employees in the media.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u96	Mr Ruffin, I listened carefully and had some difficulty in understanding your question. It is that, you are right, I am not the minister of intelligence but, in your opinion, the minister of police and communication. Besides, maybe I'm not the only one who didn't get it right. You evoke the paths of each other. From this point of view, I am perfectly comfortable: it turns out that, having left high school first, at the age of 16, I completed my bachelor's degree as a free candidate. I had the chance to get it, to catch up, then to do some studies. I worked as a worker, I worked in the agricultural world, I worked as a waiter in a bar – I don't know what socio-professional category you rank this last activity. I experienced unemployment and had to "point" for some time – I experienced this difficulty. And my life course, my professional commitment, my political commitment have led me, like you and with the same legitimacy as you – and I would appreciate it if you gave it to your colleagues as well – to become a member of the nation. And I'm proud of it. I have always defended my ideas according to my path and without having to caricature my political opponents, to the point that, in some regional elections, I withdrew my list to win that of the Republicans party against that of the National Front. Our individual journeys make our differences and these differences make us rich. So I think you are useful here in the House in defending the ideas of those you represent. Suffer, therefore, that others, with different paths, have at least the same legitimacy as you, that of being elected, and may have a different discourse from yours. That's what I wanted to tell you, Mr. Member. Never try to caricature. If you want to camp me as a police minister, know that, too, I could be proud of it. I can be proud of the commitment of these women and men who, on a daily basis, day and night, respond to every time they are called.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u97	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u98	Minister, we've never seen a response near the plate! I asked the Minister of Culture, also in charge of communication, about the latest barometer of the diversity of French society, published by the CSA, because this study indicates that workers, employees, the unemployed and pensioners occupy only 12% of the overall broadcast time on television. I asked the minister how he intended to rebalance in order to allow all the socio-professional categories of our country...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u99	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u100	Wait, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u101	I'm sorry, but the time is up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u102	That's not right at all! You know that very well! That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u103	That is the application of the Rules of Procedure, honourable Member!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u104	No, the regulation has been misled by the Minister of the Interior whose answer does not allow me to bounce back, which is contrary to the practice of these open questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u105	Oral questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u106	I hope they're also open!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u107	I was helping you a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u108	You didn't answer me at all. I am not talking to you about the Swan Lake or your journey, I am asking you how to ensure that, in our country, temporary workers, social workers, or self-entrepreneurs feel represented on television.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u109	Thank you, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u110	How to avoid that only the upper classes have a voice in the chapter and that others appear only as dreadful "jojos with a yellow vest", as the President of the Republic said, and again, of time...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u111	Thank you, Mr Ruffin, we turn to the next question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u112	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux has the floor to put his question, No. 610, concerning the classification of priority education areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u113	Giving more to those who have less in the early ages of life is a fundamental action as school inequalities crystallize destinies. This is what the Government and Mr. Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education and Youth, have undertaken, in particular by doubling the classes of CP and EC1 in the schools of the priority education network and the reinforced priority education network, REP and REP+. This policy produces extremely encouraging results on the ground. It reveals the importance of strengthening or redeploying human resources in classes that are crucial to the acquisition of basic knowledge. As a result of these good results, the question of the criteria for linking a school or college to priority education is now very acute. I would like to illustrate it to take an example from my constituency. In Caen, in the Green Road priority district, three primary schools – the Paul Gernez School, the Michel Pondaven School, and the Authie Sud School – were attached to the Albert Jacquard College, which allowed them to benefit from the arrowed means for priority education. In 2013, this college closed down, which today prevents these three schools from benefiting from the REP and REP+ devices, even though most indicators show, for several years, a worsening of the students' social difficulties. It must be acknowledged that the academic management sets up sometimes significant compensations to strongly strengthen the supervision of pupils of CP, but these schools are now attached to another college, outside REP, the Dunois College, whose teaching teams carry out particularly difficult work to accommodate each year in the sixth class an increasing rate of pupils in great difficulty. I looked at the main indicators for this non-PRE college, and those for other colleges in my territory located in REP and REP+. The data are broadly comparable – or, in any case, tangential – both in terms of the poverty rate of families, their distribution by CSP, the rate of scholarship students, the percentage of students who are one year or more behind entry into sixth grade... So my question is double. Shouldn't the criterion of attachment to a college be changed or removed in order for a school to be ranked in REP or REP +? Is it not necessary to review certain rules for the classification of schools and colleges in order to reduce the effects of thresholds in the allocation of resources, as recommended by the Court of Auditors in its recent report on priority education? If so, would you have any schedule elements to communicate to the educational teams that are very involved in the field?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u114	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u115	I thank you, Mr President, for your question, especially since it was in line with the text that has been published, as is the practice for oral questions without debate. It may be decided to change his question at the last moment, but it is not in accordance with the practice or the rules of procedure with regard to this exercise. My colleague Minister of National Education and Youth, who is detained this morning, as you know, by a meeting at the Elysée, asked me to answer you. Priority education policy is, of course, an essential policy to combat school inequalities and destinies. It is built on a territorial approach around school-college networks. Changes to a college, as in the example you cited, therefore pose particular difficulties. In 2015, a comprehensive reform of the very old priority education map was carried out by the previous government. The map is now based on a choice of indicators defined at national level, which take into account the share of pupils whose parents belong to disadvantaged socio-occupational categories and the share of scholarship students. It has also been based on close collaboration with academies to ensure that local realities are taken into account. That is the question that you are asking, Mr.Member, because we are seeking to be tailor-made rather than to settle matters through decisions taken at the national level. To accompany children, tailor-made is always the best answer. Mapping will be reviewed for 2020. In this context, the Minister of National Education and Youth has entrusted a mission to Ariane Azema and Pierre Mathiot, in order to conduct a reflection on the territorial policy of national education. This mission will conclude with a report submitted in June 2019. The minister wants to be able to talk to parliamentarians – especially with you, Mr.Le Vigoureux – because we need to be able to respond by making our education system more responsive to the specificities of the territories in order to exceed the threshold and click effects. We must be capable of agility, and we must exercise territorial intelligence to provide responses that take into account differentiated needs. Academy inspectors and national education inspectors can of course contribute to this, but there is a need to go a little further and have a system that takes local needs into account. To answer your question, you should know that the department and the minister are totally close to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u116	Ian Boucard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No. 617 on higher education in Burgundy-Franche-Comté.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u117	The law, known as Fioraso, of 22 July 2013 on higher education and research required higher education institutions to come together. In Burgundy-Franche-Comté, it was chosen to create a community of universities and institutions, COMUE-BFC, of which Nicolas Chaillet was elected president in March 2016. In December 2018, the latter resigned with his entire management team due to a governance conflict triggered by some heads of institutions, who were behind a blocking strategy to the detriment of the general interest. This has destabilized the entire academic community in our region. The first results, however, were promising, which was highlighted by all the actors, including the ministry. Many scientific co-operations have emerged and COMUE-BFC has been the only recipient of three successive calls for proposals from the IAP, the future investment programme. From the beginning a policy was carried out based on two pillars: on the one hand, the development of excellence, embodied by ISITE-BFC – for "science innovation territorial economy in Burgundy-Franche-Comté" – and, on the other hand, territorial coordination. If the medium-term development of a large federal research university was included in the ISITE-BFC project, the department did not take responsibility for arbitrating against the interests of one or two heads of institutions who failed to meet their commitments to an international jury, heads of institutions that you have requested since an action plan on this project. With regard to territorial coordination, the new draft presented to several boards of directors, which should therefore be submitted in the coming weeks to the Minister, no longer contains any reference to territorial university centres. The North Franche-Comté is barely mentioned when it has more than 300,000 inhabitants and industries essential to our region and our country are located there – I will mention only Alstom, General Electric, PSA, Faurecia or LISI. At the same time, Dijon Métropole saw fit to launch, throughout the region, a communication campaign under the brand Just Dijon to study by declaring itself the university capital of Burgundy-Franche-Comté. I am convinced that the union of our territories and higher institutions will be the key to the university development of our region in the face of international competition, but union is a fight that is better than these bell fights, because the strength of our higher education will pass through strong poles, from Belfort to Nevers, from Chalon-sur-Saône to Besançon, of course, through Dijon. The autonomy of universities cannot lead to this kind of drift. The state must maintain its strategic capacity and arbitrate when the issues require it. I would also like to know whether the Government is about to defend a metropolization of higher education and research and a merger of institutions, with Dijon as the capital, what I cannot believe, or whether, like all the local actors and elected representatives, the Minister intends to become involved personally – and if so, how – in order to promote an organisation of higher education structured from territorial university centres, thus guaranteeing the success of the ISITE-BF project and of higher education and research in the Franche-Comté region?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u118	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u119	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, retained elsewhere, would like to apologize for her absence. She asked me to answer you. As you recalled, the functioning of COMUE Bourgogne-Franche-Comté has been hampered in recent years by an accumulation of internal governance difficulties. Beyond this important issue for the future of this site, your question concerns both the consolidation of the ISITE, but also the territorial balances of the offer of training and research throughout the region Burgundy-Franche County – you have the concern of respect for territorial balances and the unity of the policy carried out. ISITE is structured around three axes of excellence: advanced materials, waves and intelligent systems; territories, environment, food; individualized and integrated care. These three axes are intended to be the building blocks of a strong territorial signature for COMUE, thus paving the way for an international recognition of UBFC, the University Burgundy-Franche-Comté. For the IDEX International Jury, the building of this recognition involves initiatives of excellence, through several key elements, in particular the UBFC's leadership of the entire research policy, and by an effective transfer of posts from the institutions to COMUE in order to bring this common ambition to the whole territory. Between July and November last year, the IDEX Steering Committee regretted the weak developments towards the consolidation of ISITE. This led Ms Frédérique Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, together with Mr Guillaume Boudy, Secretary-General for the Major Investment Plan, on behalf of the IDEX Steering Committee, to request by mail last November the establishment of an action plan within COMUE in order to draw up a critical path towards the achievement of the objectives that will make it possible to reinforce the ISITE enjoyed by the university. Frédérique Vidal is due to receive this action plan at the end of the first quarter of 2019. You will therefore have the opportunity to discuss this issue in due course with the Minister. With regard to the internal life of the COMUE and the territorial balances inherent in the offer of research and training, the Rector of the Academy of Besançon, Mr Jean-François Chanet, appointed Mr Luc Johann as interim administrator of the COMUE UBFC for a period of at least six months. Johann, a personality recognized for his experience as former rector of the Hauts-de-France academic region, is the president of Paul Verlaine University in Metz. The new interim governance of COMUE is working on this new action plan in a constructive way. With regard to territorial issues, a balance has been found for the installation of COMUE, CROUS and the rectorate in the immediate vicinity of Besançon. Both the Greater Besançon and the region have made significant financial commitments in this regard. There is no indication at this time that this balance would have the potential to be upset. On the contrary, it seems to us that the State is working to invest and develop all the poles of the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region. This has recently been reflected in the territorial pact for the future. I would therefore like to reassure you, honourable Member: neither excessive metropolization nor questioning the current territorial balances are objectives for the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u120	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to speak on his question, No. 603, on the financing of the Maison des femmes de Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u121	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the sustainability of the financing of the Maison des femmes de Saint-Denis, a pioneering structure in the care of women victims of violence. In the Greater Paris metropolitan area, it is a recognized initiative for the care of women victims of violence. This place offers a path of care for women victims of violence by allowing them physical and psychological reconstruction, social and legal support in a unique and warm place, thanks to a multidisciplinary team composed of doctors, midwives, psychologists, nurses, conjugal counsellors, lawyers, lawyers, police officers, or osteopaths. From the demand for contraception to abortion, care around excision, rape, physical or psychological violence, in the family, marital or other settings, the Women's House teams provide the most appropriate and up-to-date care for women who are often in a vulnerable and precarious situation. A wide network of partners and various associative permanences allow patients to be guided according to their needs, while giving priority to the coordination of their journeys. The Maison des femmes de Saint-Denis is, according to IGAS, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, an innovative multi-disciplinary management project that must find the financial conditions for its sustainability. Indeed, to date, its financial structure is particularly complex and fragile. In 2016, the Ministry of Health granted an annual funding of EUR 160000 over two years, of an exceptional nature. In 2018, the operation of the Maison des femmes de Saint-Denis depended heavily on non-hospital funds, whether from local authorities or private foundations. The family planning unit is financed by the departmental council. The female genital mutilation unit is partly covered by the hospital for the salaries of the gynaecologists involved, and by a foundation of a large pharmaceutical group. As for the "violence" unit, it is almost entirely financed by corporate foundations. I would add that the regional health agency has paid an exceptional grant of EUR 100 000 through the regional intervention fund. This is why, in 2019, the lack of state funding risks questioning the sustainability of the Maison des femmes de Saint-Denis. Proposals have been made, including the creation of a financial line "mission of general interest" dedicated to women victims of violence, but without follow-up to date. Also, Mr. Secretary of State, in the week of 8 March, International Women's Rights Day, I would like to ask you what measures the Government intends to take to ensure the sustainability of this recognized and praised structure, which has proved its worth on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u122	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u123	The Maison des femmes de Saint-Denis is indeed a unique place that provides multidisciplinary responses to women, often in situations of great insecurity, facing physical or psychological violence. Three weeks ago, I had the pleasure of meeting Dr. Ghada Hatem at an event on the fight against sexual mutilation of children in which I participated alongside my colleague Marlène Schiappa, and I will receive her in the ministry within 15 days. Its work is fully in line with the Government's priorities since the beginning of the quinquennium, starting with the National Health Strategy, but also evidently through the inter-ministerial plan to combat violence against women, as well as the poverty reduction strategy. It is clear that organizing in this fragile department a suitable response to women combining a situation of social vulnerability and confrontation with situations of violence, whatever their form, fully meets the priorities set for the action of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Therefore, because of these guidelines and the quality of the accompaniment proposed by the Maison des femmes de Saint-Denis, the project put in place by Dr Ghada Hatem was the subject of exceptional national accompaniment since the inauguration of the structure in June 2016. In order to give the necessary visibility to this structure, it has been decided to allocate this support of 160000 euros on a permanent basis from this year: the appropriations will remain paid by the regional health agency of Île-de-France to the hospital centre of Saint-Denis through the regional intervention fund, as part of a long-term contract. The activities of this structure, in a department with multiple difficulties, will therefore be sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u124	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u125	I would like to welcome, Mr. Secretary of State, the announcement of the sustainability of funding from the State. However, I would like to stress my request for a reflection on the opening of a line of appropriations allowing the creation of a mission of general interest dedicated to women victims of violence, which could also concern the creation of other women's houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u126	Mrs Danielle Brulebois, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 612 concerning the SMUR of Lons-le-Saulnier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u127	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the announcement of the closure of a SMUR line – a mobile emergency and resuscitation service – has raised a lot of anxiety and anger in my constituency. This closure is perceived as a profound injustice, which would only worsen the social and territorial divide at the moment strongly denounced in our rural territories. Major demonstrations, filled with emotion, brought together unanimously elected officials, staff and the public. It should be noted that the Lons-le-Saulnier SMUR intervention area covers a large area, much of it in small mountains, where climatic conditions are difficult, with long periods of rain and fog. Moreover, the regional health project, which was voted on last year, makes no mention of this abolition: on the contrary, it sets the objective of reducing emergency response times in rural departments, for example by increasing the use of heliport transport. And I recall that the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system, which we are going to examine, aims to strengthen proximity and justice in health matters. In view of these various elements, I believe that the outright closure of the second line of Lons-le-Saulnier's SMUR, if confirmed, would lead to a real lack of equal access to care throughout the territory while every minute counts. My question, Mr. Secretary of State, is this: Is your department ready to support initiatives to maintain the operation of SMUR 2 in the event of a concomitance of emergency calls? I am thinking, for example, of a reassignment of its staff to the emergencies in order to relieve their congestion while keeping the resources available for this second line, of cooperation with the SDIS – the departmental fire and rescue service – which involves lifting numerous blockages, the latter being financed by the local authorities, or of the presence on the spot of a departmental helicopter – as in Nevers. Secretary of State, we are counting on you to find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u128	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u129	Madam Member, a new emergency organisation at the Jura-Sud hospital is in the process of being discussed. The regional health agency Burgundy Franche-Comté supports the work carried out by the teams of the hospital in connection with all the actors concerned, knowing, I insist, that this work is carried out with the support of an expert. The objective is to improve the quality of the emergency reception of the hospital centre while ensuring the safety of the care provided by the mobile emergency and resuscitation services. This is the major issue of the new organization, be sure, and not, as we have heard here or there, a question of means since all institutions are funded according to the same rules. I would like to stress here the enormous investment of these hospitals in the Jura-Sud in defining a new offering of graduated care that will allow for quality and safety care for the population, the primary objective of the ministry, and that you share it I am sure. The State strongly supports this transformation by allocating substantial aid: €6 million for the Lons-le-Saunier site and €2 million for the Saint Claude site for 2018, and I confirm that this will continue this year. The health professionals of the Jura are already ready to engage in local health professional communities – the CPTS – as highlighted by the example of the CPTS in the Lédonien basin or the wish of the professionals of the multi-professional health homes of Nozeroy and Frasne to engage in a CPTS project. Other projects, in Salins-les-Bains, in Arbois and in Haut-Jura around Saint-Claude, are also being studied. The major reform of community hospitals, which is currently being considered, is a double asset to consolidate the provision of care in Champagnole: on the one hand, concerning the stabilization of the supply of care, which will have to cover the needs of first recourse, there are plans for a SMUR H24 team, unscheduled consultations provided by the emergency workers, conventional imaging, a mobile team of palliative care and multi-purpose care and rehabilitation beds whose authorisation will have to evolve in line with the logic of the reform; On the other hand, the funding model under construction will allow for the sustainability of proximity sites, including when integrated into a territory hospital group. These are the axes that guide the ongoing reorganization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u130	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor to put her question, No. 616, on psychiatric services in Haute-Savoie.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u131	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to once again alert your ministry to the extremely worrying situation of psychiatry in Haute-Savoie, and I would like to associate my colleague Martial Saddier, former president of the regional hospital group Léman Mont-Blanc, with my question. In this department, psychiatry care teams, in chronic understaffing, are forced to increase their working hours. Service managers face major recruitment difficulties due to the high cost of living in the territory and the high attractiveness of neighbouring Switzerland. Currently, at the public mental health institution in the Arve Valley, 30% of medical posts are vacant. The under-equipment of medical-social accommodation facilities obliges many people to stay in hospital, yet they have an indication of the MDHC – the departmental home of disabled people – for another place of life: this obviously represents a cost to the community but, moreover, it disturbs the path of patients in crisis, for whom there is no longer a hospital bed available. The use of care without consent is more important in Haute-Savoie than in other departments. Haute-Savoie is truly under-funded with regard to the amount of annual per capita funding at the national and regional levels, while it has one of the strongest population growth rates in France. Psychiatry is the poor parent of medicine in Haute-Savoie, and there are many examples to prove this: at the Annecy-Genevois hospital, ten beds were closed as well as the child psychiatrist service, and there are no more liaison psychiatrists on the Saint-Julien site in Geneva. The most complex route in the department is undoubtedly that of teenagers: when one of them has an acute crisis, the doctors explained to me that they have only three solutions: to keep him under sedation in a short-term hospital unit, to address him in paediatrics – which implies an unobvious neighbourhood to manage – or to transfer him to adult psychiatry – this was the case in 2018 for twenty stays at the public mental health institution, the EPSM. For poor teams, such moments are experienced as abuse, and they cannot be really wronged. That is why many leave the discipline. In concrete terms, this results in situations of breakdown of care for the sick and generates terrible stress for families. The nursing teams are exhausted. The situation can't last any longer. Mr Secretary of State, what measures does the Ministry intend to put in place to support and strengthen the psychiatric centres of Haute-Savoie? Will they have additional human and financial resources? In particular, the specialists in the sector insist on experimenting with financing according to geopopulational criteria as mentioned in Jean-Marc Aubert's report on financing and regulation methods.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u132	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u133	The Annecy-Genevois hospital, known as CHANGE, contributes, like two other institutions, the hospitals of Geneva and the public mental health institution, to the care of patients in psychiatry in the territory of Haute-Savoie. There are also medical and social facilities downstream for stabilized patients with mental disabilities: I am thinking of the nursing home and the three SAMSAHs – medical and social support services for adults with disabilities. In addition, the departmental council and the regional health agency launched in 2019 a call for projects to open a medico-social facility for the care of adults with mental disabilities. Finally, CHANGE and EPSM have developed psychosocial rehabilitation care. The institutions of Haute-Savoie have to deal with the problem of the medical demography of psychiatrists, and they are far from being the only ones in the region to be confronted with this problem, which also affects – as you have implicitly mentioned – the entire national territory. Please be aware that the question of the organization of the psychiatric system and, in my view, of child psychiatristry, is one of the priorities of this government, knowing that a real path has to be rebuilt, particularly with regard to child psychiatristry. However, the problem that I have recalled is a specific one in your department: its proximity to Switzerland, which exacerbates the phenomenon since it adds to the difficulty of recruiting non-medical staff, whether they are nurses or caregivers, as well as doctors, a difficulty due to the attractiveness of wages in Switzerland. This situation leads the establishments to bed closures, as you recalled, thus amplifying the difficulties of patients in accessing care, in a context where the rates of equipment and the financial means – I am thinking of the annual operating budget of the public institutions – are below the average of the establishments in the region. With regard to CHANGE, the shortage of psychiatrists has led this institution to close its child psychiatric unit. Today, only two private clinics provide comprehensive hospital care for children and adolescents, and only one of the two clinics is funded to accommodate these patients in crisis situations, without being in a real position to meet all the needs, especially in the most complex cases. Only the recruitment of psychiatrists will allow the reopening of this unit of public child psychiatry, as well as that of the adult psychiatric beds that have been closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u134	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u135	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that clarification. Of course, the difficulties in psychiatry concern the whole of France, but we must know that the annual allocation of financing per capita in Auvergne Rhône-Alpes is 132 euros, whereas it is 81 euros in Haute-Savoie and 66 euros in the sector of hospitals in Geneva: our territory is therefore largely underfunded. In addition, some institutions have to resort to temporary work, which has an extremely high cost. We therefore really rely on you to hear and the voices of users and families, who are very worried.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u136	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to put his question, No. 598, concerning the end of life of persons far from their territory of origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u137	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I hope that at last we will find a solution to a problem which is rare, but whose consequences are tragic and painful for the territories and the people concerned, that of the people at the end of their lives who wish to return to their homeland. If it mainly concerns Ultramarines living in Hexagon, the reverse situation may also occur. Two cases in particular brought me under arrest. The first is that of Mrs.Marie Stanislas Boutiana, whose history has upset the whole of Reunion. This reunited mother with incurable cancer had to be hospitalized in a city on the Atlantic front when she was 33 years old. She could not be cared for, seeing death approaching and accepting her destiny, which was extremely courageous on her part, so she wished to return to die with her own. Since she could not assume the financial burden of her return, the association "Little Hearts" launched a chain of solidarity of which all La Réunion spoke. Unfortunately, time has run out: Marie Stanislas died in Hexagon on August 19, 2017. As a result, she was unable to celebrate her last birthday among her own. However, we thought that a solution would be found – I had indeed at that time, but in vain, asked your ministry, Secretary of State. The story has been repeated, but in the other direction, for Mr Stéphane Ducamp, living in Reunion and well known for his commitment to the fight against discrimination and homophobia. With cancer, he realized at the beginning of the year that his last days were approaching. Accepting the situation, he wished to be transferred to a palliative care unit in Hexagon to end his life with his family. However, an air health transfer costs money. Mr Ducamp has therefore launched a participatory pool to collect the 8000 euros needed for his transfer. Unfortunately, he too died before he was able to raise the necessary funds on 31 January; So he couldn't see his family and loved ones one last time. Secretary of State, my point is simple: never again! France is a great country and a great power. France can and must finance this type of operation: it is a matter of dignity, for our country as well as for the people concerned. Everyone has the right to die dignifiedly and surrounded by his or her loved ones: it is perfectly unacceptable that people at the end of their lives should organize private solidarity collections to enforce this right. Such cases are rare: medical transfers of persons at the end of their lives, the situation of which is attested by the medical profession, involve only a few dozen people a year, at most a hundred. The cost of taking care of them could be only a few hundred thousand euros a year, one drop of water compared to your ministry's budget, which amounts to about 200 billion euros. Are you ready, Secretary of State, to respond favourably to this request?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u138	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u139	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question: allow me, by responding to it, to expand a little. First of all, I would like to remind you that health insurance covers, by law, the transport costs associated with leaving hospital, provided that they have been the subject of a prior medical prescription. It is true that this right does not exist in the specific case – rare, but which may raise a number of issues – of a medicalized transfer for a return home. In such a situation, however, care can be financed in whole or in part from the National Health and Social Action Fund of the health insurance funds, subject to the availability of resources. Through the situations you have described, you shed light on a finding, which is also a form of paradox: if 60% of deaths occur in hospital, the majority of our fellow citizens – more than 80% of them – say they would rather die at home. The challenge therefore lies both in the quality of the accompaniment at the end of life and in the ways of reconciling it with the wishes of individuals. By allowing situations to be anticipated, the expression of such wishes contributes to soothing and dignified end-of-life conditions. To this end, the law has put at our disposal a number of mechanisms – such as the drafting of advance directives or the appointment of a trusted person – which, once mobilized, improve the quality of the support by facilitating the relations between the healthcare staff, the person at the end of his life and his entourage. Every effort must therefore be made to satisfy the wishes of the sick, in accordance with good practice. As a result, reference materials are available to stakeholders, be they professional, volunteer or accompanying. For its part, the National Centre for Palliative and End-of-Life Care is involved in the dissemination and appropriation of the key concepts of palliative care. Finally, the national information campaign "The end of life, what if we talked about it? Last October was renewed to make our fellow citizens aware of the possibility of prescribing advance directives or designating a trusted person, and more generally to raise awareness of the means available to relieve the end of life. Efforts are also focused on mobile palliative care teams, MSCPs, to increase their bed support interventions. Maintaining their expertise and presence at the territorial level is, in our view, a guarantee of excellence and of the development of community-based palliative care. Experiments are therefore carried out to develop the presence of night nurses in residential institutions for dependent elderly people: their first teachings are rather encouraging. Death must be, for patients, their families and caregivers, free from preventable distress and physical or psychological suffering. It must be in general agreement with the wishes of patients and families, but also compatible with dignified conditions of accompaniment: that is what I believe must bring us together. This is the meaning of the actions carried out so far and which it will be important to continue. That is our commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u140	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to put his question, No 600, on the future of the Belvedere hospital centre in Mont-Saint-Aignan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u141	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the Belvedere Hospital, located in Rouen's metropolis, is facing a tense financial situation. His difficulties are related to his specialization in obstetric gynaecology, which is now insufficiently remunerated in the context of activity pricing. If the maternity of the Belvedere provides, with its 111 beds, nearly 3300 births per year, the increase in activity cannot generate additional revenue due to the mono-activity of the establishment. He has therefore embarked on a process of diversification in gynaecology and plastic, digestive and bariatric surgery. A new technical platform, inaugurated in 2017, was created with the support of the Regional Health Agency, at a cost of €11 million. However, gynecological and obstetric activity still accounts for 90% of Belvedere activity. Furthermore, on 26 April 2018, the Regional Health Agency rejected its forecast budget, without taking into account the time needed to amortise the investments made, which have placed the cash flow of the hospital centre. As a result, the SRA commissioned an audit whose first results filtered. Some recommendations are of particular concern. Of course, the possibility of a merger of the institution with the university hospital in Rouen seems to have been ruled out in favour of a joint management of the two structures, but the abolition of one third of the posts of midwives is envisaged, out of the sixty that the institution counts. The ARS has told me that "the adjustment of staff in establishments carrying out comparable activities, including outside the region, must be studied" and that "the logic behind the creation of hospital groups in the territories can only strengthen the development of public structures, which are called upon to seek complementarity and not to develop inappropriate competition". However, we observe that this complementarity between public institutions is reflected in the fact, in the region, in maternity closures such as that of Bernay: this development is not without concern about the future of the Belvedere. While the audit findings are expected in spring 2019, Belvedere management has already started a process to reduce its payroll. Thus, the 90 contract agents of the institution are already being asked to agree to enter into a part-time contract – from 75% to 90%. For all staff, 20 posts would be abolished. These measures undermine the innovative practices put in place by the Belvedere Hospital Centre for the support of pregnant women and the fight against obstetric violence – measures which, although they substantially reduce the number of applications per Caesarean section, have the paradoxical effect of penalising the establishment, since the current remuneration for the activity takes insufficient account of the quality of the service concerned. Many managers of the hospital, the staff and their trade unions, but also the users, grouped in one association, refuse any plans to merge with the CHU of Rouen as any reduction in the number of staff, in particular of midwives. The same concern is expressed about a possible plan to decommission the maternity of the Belvedere in maternity level 1 which could be detrimental to the maintenance of the level of activity of the hospital, which currently has a neonatology unit. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me what steps the Government intends to take to ensure that the activities and innovative practices of the Belvedere hospital centre are firmly maintained?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u142	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u143	Member of Parliament, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the Minister and the Normandy Regional Health Agency share most of the findings – but perhaps not most of the solutions you have mentioned – that you are drawing up with regard to the operation of the Belvedere Hospital. If this institution – which provides, you have recalled, 3,300 births a year – is the largest public maternity in the region, it has been in a tense financial situation for several years. This has led the SRA, which supports it, to request an audit of its strategic and financial positioning. The purpose of this audit is indeed to assess all the possibilities of optimized cooperation – an expression that could sum up my entire response – with the public institutions of the territory, and as a main one, with the university hospital center of Rouen, support of the hospital group of territory – GHT – to which the hospital center of the Belvedere belongs. The audit must also assess the various possible solutions to reinforce the maternity situation of the Belvedere, of which Agnès Buzyn was able to recall the necessary sustainability – in your presence, I imagine – when he came to Rouen in October 2018. The logic of setting up local hospital groups can only strengthen – but on this point, our views may be different – the development of public structures that are called upon to seek complementarities and not to develop inappropriate competition. I confirm in this respect that the hypothesis of a merger with the CHU of Rouen is not actually envisaged. In our view, the institution must engage resolutely in structured and effective co-operation in order to provide a readable health path for the population that responds to the issues of quality and safety of care: these are the objectives of the policies we are pursuing, and I am confident that you will approve them. Above all, it is up to the medical community and the governance of the institution to build a medical strategy and adopt a medical and paramedical organization to respond to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u144	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u145	I would like to take this opportunity, Mr Secretary of State, to inform you that it would be possible very quickly to set up an "Emergency" label, which would be a means of financially supporting Belvedere maternity. It is only up to the Minister, if she agrees, to open her door for this purpose to a delegation from the hospital including representatives of her management.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u146	Mr Paul Molac has the floor to put his question, No. 619, on the consequences of the classification of hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u147	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the hospital environment has been going wrong for a long time. Despite numerous warnings, the situation has deteriorated steadily. The current system pushes staff to care faster and faster with less human resources. As a result, health care teams are suffering, and the quality of care is affected. As you know, hospitals have largely paid the cost of returning to the balance of social security. In order to reduce the deficit, they have been asked for more savings. However, at a time when social security should finally be able to generate a financial surplus, the deficit in public health institutions is worsening, as it reached EUR 1 billion in 2018. And they're still being asked to save money! In view of this situation of extreme tension, much is expected of the plan "my health 2022". Regrettably, its content is concerned, in particular the component aimed at classifying hospitals into three categories. The Government is planning the establishment of a community hospital, which could cover 600 facilities. Is it not, in fact, a matter of downgrading institutions by closing services and beds to hospitals-centres in which specialized care such as surgery or obstetrics will be concentrated? At the hospital in Ploërmel, the staff feared a gradual relocation of the services to the hospitals in Vannes, Rennes or Saint-Brieuc, which would have the effect of doubling the travel time – from twenty to thirty minutes, the latter would pass to one hour. The possibility of restructuring also worries staff. What will happen when the institution acquires the new status of community hospital? Will it be until the closure of the surgical and maternity services, which nevertheless records 700 births a year? Since the reform only provides for three categories of establishment, where to classify establishments with both a maternity and a technical surgical plateau, such as those in the centre of Brittany – Ploërmel, Redon, Pontivy or Carhaix? At a time when people in rural areas are concerned about the scarcity of public services, it is difficult to imagine that medium-sized hospitals, which are highly structural for the territories, are being transformed into simple health-care homes or EHPAD. Do you intend to review the classification of hospitals that, in the simplistic form envisaged in the plan "my health 2022", risk declassifying institutions that play a major role in their territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u148	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u149	Be convinced, Mr. Molac, that what concerns the Government is access to care and not budgetary considerations. You raise the issues of redefining the gradation of hospital care and the structuring of community care, which are at the heart of the developments announced in the "My Health 2022" plan. One of the key measures in this plan is, as you pointed out, the renovation of the model of organisation of community hospitals. The activities of the latter will focus on proximity in order to ensure better access to care in all territories – we hear the requests of the elected officials in this regard – while preserving the quality of life of the patients, who will have the opportunity to stay close to their home and their loved ones. Far from downgrading the institutions concerned, the aim of the reform is to strengthen community hospitals, which will provide the first level of gradation of hospital care as a full-fledged health facility, and will contribute, through close cooperation with the actors in the city and the medical and social sector, to quality community care. These institutions will have the dual characteristic of ensuring only community activities – neither surgery nor obstetrics – and of being structured to share with city medicine a territorial responsibility. In order to enable them to meet these challenges, we will ensure that local hospitals are given an appropriate model of organisation and funding and that they are able to strengthen their attractiveness. Of course, the gradation of care and the deployment of community hospitals will be decided on a case-by-case basis, depending on the needs of the territories and with only the quality and safety of care as a compass. As regards the hospital centre in Ploërmel, the stakes are specific and, as such, must be looked at without a priori. The institution has been in a deteriorating financial situation for several years. The ARS accompanies it with the utmost voluntarism by means of operating or investment aid, thus showing its full support for the institution's approach to ensuring its future. Over the period 2013-2018, EUR 7 million of aid was allocated. The activity of the hospital centre of Ploërmel, whose surgical and obstetrical technical plateau is intended to be strengthened, is fully integrated into the shared medical project of the hospital group of territory. Improved medical attractiveness, in a context of delicate medical demography, and the gradual restoration of the institution's financial balance are expected in return.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u150	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to speak on his question No. 629 on the Bethune-Beuvry Hospital Centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u151	Last Friday in my constituency, I participated in a debate on the future of the Bethune-Beuvry Hospital, during which I was able to interact with staff. I would therefore like to draw your attention today to the situation of this establishment. After the closing of the cardiology service several months ago, no less than 81.6 full-time equivalents were directly threatened in the recent return-to-balance plan, even though the hospital is suffering from a cruel shortage of staff. The management of the hospital finally returned to its announcement following the general mobilization of elected officials and professionals in the field, nevertheless maintaining certain abolitions of posts. In Lens, in the heart of the mining basin, it was the pneumonology department that closed more than a year ago, to the detriment of the proximity of care. In the face of this situation, I alerted the Agence régionale de santé – des Hauts-de-France several weeks ago and, to date, no response has been received. This administrative authority, absent during last week's debate, did not get involved as it should in this case. I find this derogatory to the staff, to the members of the hospital's supervisory board and to the elected representatives of the territory. The Bethunian hospital, like many public hospitals, suffers from severe dysfunctions, in its governance or in its financing. This is the case with the activity pricing mechanism, known as T2A, which has the perverse effect of a race for profitability that should not be experienced by the hospital public service. The recent announcement of the 0.5 % increase in hospital fees and fees alone will not solve the problem of financing the public hospital in a sustainable way – for 2019, the deficit is estimated at between 850 million and 1 billion euros. As medical deserts multiply in our country, what specific measures do you intend to take to improve the functioning and financing of our hospitals, and in particular to ensure the sustainability of all the services of the hospital in Bethune-Beuvry and the renovation of its operating unit? This hospital is located in the heart of a dense population pool with significant needs. The staff is very invested but also very concerned about the mutism of the ARS and therefore the state in the face of its situation. He's waiting for concrete answers from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u152	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u153	You draw my attention to the situation at the Bethune Hospital and to the development of the return-to-balance plan within the framework of the Interdepartmental Committee on the Performance and Modernization of Care Delivery – COPERMO. The indispensable role of the hospital centre has been strengthened in the organization of the territory of Artois, which has just been rethought. It is at this point that the ARS accompanies the institution in order to strengthen its place and position. Within the framework of the prefiguration of the new hospital of Lens, a support establishment of the hospital group of territory of the Artois, the scheme of territorial organization of activities of proximity and recourse between the two hospitals of Lens and Bethune that has been defined allows to guarantee the response to the needs of the population in the areas of proximity of Bethune-Bruay and Lens-Hénin. The outcome of this reflection, involving the medical communities and the management, consolidates the place of the hospital centre of Bethune in its territory. The registration of the Béthune hospital centre at COPERMO was inexorable due to a deterioration observed in fiscal year 2017, which unfortunately increased in 2018. This deterioration is due in particular to the closure of the Cardiology Service and its intensive care unit, which we deplore and to which the ARS of the Hauts-de-France had opposed. For the Béthune hospital centre as for other establishments in the Hauts-de-France region, the evolution of the demographics of cardiologists did not allow to maintain all or part of these activities. The establishment of a joint medical team between the hospitals of Lens and Bethune allows the maintenance of the offer in Bethunian and must facilitate future recruitment by giving access to all cardiologists, especially Bethune, to the highly specialized technical plateau of the Lens hospital centre. It is now up to the institution to take the necessary action to restore its budgetary balance in a sustainable manner in order to support the necessary investments in particular. The ARS accompanies the hospital in Bethune in the development of its plan but also in this difficult transition phase. As a result, the institution received very substantial cash aid of EUR 4 million. Aware of the necessary strategic investments, the RSA also provided a first aid of EUR 1 million to finance the renovation of the operating block. These accompaniments demonstrate, beyond intentions, the importance attached by the State and the ARS to the hospital centre in Bethune, which, however, cannot remain in the current financial situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u154	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u155	The construction of the new hospital in Lens is of course welcome, but the state must not consider that it is leaving for the territory of the mining basin. The needs in Bethunian and Bruaysis are real – there are 200,000 inhabitants in this area. I hope that the state will be at the side of the hospital's management to sustain all the services, and I regret the difficulties in communicating with the SRA experienced by both members of the supervisory board and parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u156	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to put his question, No. 627, on the programme 'A fruit for recreation'.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u157	About ten years ago, the European Commission launched the "Fruits and Vegetables in School" programme. The idea was simple: to allocate to each country a budget to subsidize the purchase of fresh fruit and vegetables for students in schools. The idea is smart, it echoes the slogan "five fruits and vegetables a day" as well as the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, called EGALIM. It must make it possible to give good eating habits to our youth. Ten years later, it's time to take stock. First of all, the figures: in the 2016-2017 school year, out of the 15 million allocated by Brussels, only 2 million were used, or 13% of the appropriations. The previous year, the rate was 16.5%. Since the program was launched, no more than 30% of its envelope has been consumed. Then, if we consider the feedback, the testimonies of the teachers who wanted to join this program are overwhelming: administrative burden, need for a SIRET number, conflicting injunctions from organizations such as INSEE or FranceAgriMer, lack of response. A total of one quarter of the files were rejected for administrative non-compliance. The bureaucratic complexity of France and France, once again, was the reason for the best wishes and killed in the egg a European project yet full of meaning. Is it really necessary to ask teachers, who have other obligations, to do paperwork to distribute fruit to our schoolchildren? How does the Government intend to simplify the "A Fruit for Recreation" programme in order to allow the use of the €18 million spent on it in 2019?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u158	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u159	I would like to respond on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who would like to apologize for his absence. Being in charge of child protection, I can only share your enthusiasm in principle for this programme of the European Union and your regret about its difficulties in implementing it. You attribute chronic under-consumption of credits to the administrative complexity of implementing the measure. I accept that the budget allocated by the European Union is far from being consumed, which must alert us, and I agree with the need to develop this policy for our young people, especially since it is an important link in our food policy. In practical terms, it should be pointed out that the use of the programme and the disbursement of funds depend first and foremost on the mobilization of schools and local authorities, not so much of the teachers themselves. The mobilisation has indeed been rather weak in previous campaigns, because, in our view, the rest is for the communities and the administrative complexity inherent in the scheme, which is due to the need to comply with European requirements. This complexity, which you mentioned in detail, usually involved the use of dedicated staff in institutions, a point on which one can actually question. In order to better mobilise this programme, several improvements have already been made at the end of 2018: the request for aid from FranceAgriMer has been dematerialised; the reporting and reimbursement procedures have been simplified, in particular through the introduction of lump sum payments; Educational materials have been developed to facilitate the educational activities of schools; A practical guide to users has been produced. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food remains attentive. If it turns out that these measures are not enough to make the programme more attractive, we will work, based on the lessons learned from the measures taken in 2018, on new measures for the current year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u160	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u161	As you noted, Secretary of State, my question was to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Typically, this program is in the dead end of several ministries. Both the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health could lead. As you are dealing with young people, I invite you to take this question in arms-to-body, and I submit a suggestion to you: in order to ease the administrative burden on school principals, the study of the dossiers could be centralized in each academy. There would be only one case dealt with by academies, and all applications from schools would be collected. In my view, teachers must be allowed to devote themselves to pedagogy. In particular, it is essential that they teach children what good, healthy, quality and preferably close food is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u162	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to put his question, No 613, on agricultural pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u163	The reform of the pension system is one of the major projects to come from the quinquennium. It was essential, but pensioners should be guaranteed a decent income. The recent increase in the CSG has affected more than 8 million retirees. These remain the preferred target of governments: pensions have not been upgraded in five years; pensions have been deindexed against inflation. For 2019 and 2020, while inflation will be close to 2%, you have already announced a pension increase of only 0.3%. In my department, Cantal, 17% of seniors live below the poverty line. The Cantal is, together with Creuse, the department where this rate is highest. The recent announcement of an increase in the CSG which would not concern pensions of less than EUR 1200 per month has proved to be false. The CSG rate applied depends not on the pension level, but on the level of the benchmark tax income. However, the ceiling is relatively low, since it is EUR 14404 per year for a single person. For a couple, i.e. two tax shares, this amount is multiplied not by two, but by only 1.5, which gives 1840 euros per month. Do you intend to ensure that the threshold is multiplied by the actual number of tax shares? This decline in purchasing power affects all pensioners, particularly retired farmers. Recall that small agricultural pensions had to be increased to 85% of the SMIC on 1 January 2018 and that a farmer often lives on less than 750 euros per month! Our pensioners are no longer able to live decently, and it is not the removal of the housing tax that will change the situation. What steps do you intend to take to restore purchasing power to them? Far from being an allowance, their retirement pension is the result of decades of work. Its amount is the fair return of contributions paid throughout their career.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u164	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u165	Mr President, I am replying on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, but the issue of pensions also falls within the scope of the Minister for Solidarity and Health, to whom I am Secretary of State. Your question focuses on raising CSG rates and its impact on agricultural pensions. The CSG's increase in January 2018 was, I repeat, aimed at addressing the problem of the purchasing power of assets, while protecting the most modest pensioners. However, this increase has been perceived as too difficult to cope with by many pensioners, although, as I say again, 40% of them, those who receive the lowest pensions, had been exempt from it at the outset. The Law of 24 December 2018 on Economic and Social Emergency Measures re-established, from 1 January 2019, the CSG rate on replacement income at 6.6% instead of 8.3% for pensioners with a reference tax income of less than € 22580, which corresponds to a pension of € 2000 for a single pensioner who receives no other income. The Government remains committed, be it convinced, to the progressivity of social contributions from retirement pensions. In this respect, the tax income criterion is the fairest, since it better reflects the contributory capacity of households, taken in its entirety. With the planned measure, 70% of retirees will no longer be affected by the CSG increase. In addition, in order to limit the threshold effects of CSG, the Social Security Financing Act for 2019 neutralized the consequences of a one-time threshold crossing by stating that the CSG rate change would apply only to pensioners whose reference tax income would be above the threshold for two consecutive years. Finally, the same law provided for an increase in all retirement pensions by 0.3% in 2019. It may indeed be considered that this revalorisation is modest, but at the same time pensioners who receive the lowest pensions will benefit from a significant revalorisation of the solidarity allowance for the elderly. The amount of the ASPA for a single person will thus reach 903 euros per month in 2020, which is 100 euros more than in 2017, and the amount for a couple will be adjusted in the same proportions. This strong solidarity measure will amount to EUR 525 million over three years. It will benefit the 550,000 pensioners who already receive ASPA and should reach an additional 46000 elderly people. As you know, the Government is also working on an overall overhaul of the architecture of our pension system to make it more readable, fairer and more inclusive. These are the three principles that guide our thinking and action. This global reflection, carried out in consultation with the social partners – this is the end of many meetings every week – will make it possible to define the most appropriate arrangements for the revalorisation of retirement pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u166	Mr David Lorion has the floor to put his question, No. 615, on purchasing power in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u167	I would like to share with you, in a few seconds, a few figures concerning a French department, La Réunion. This is my responsibility as a Member of Parliament. In hexagonal France, GDP per capita amounts to €43000; in my department, La Réunion, it is only 21,000 euros. In France, the unemployment rate is 8.8%, a fairly good figure, according to you; In my department, La Réunion, it reaches 23% of the working population. In hexagonal France, great poverty is considered to begin below 1015 euros per month; in my department, La Réunion, it starts below 570 euros a month and reaches 40,000 people. In 2016, there were 24,000 assisted contracts in La Réunion. You reduced the number by a pass trick, turning half of them into RSA. As a result, the AHR beneficiary rate increased by 6% in 2018. A big newspaper called yesterday: "What a disaster! It is indeed an economic, social and environmental disaster. In addition to this policy, we note that prices are higher in Réunion than in metropolitan France, 28% for food, 39% for building materials – Ericka Bareigts again denounced it a few days ago – and 124% for car parts – the local press echoes it today. There has been the time for reflection, the foundations of the overseas countries, the blue book of the overseas countries, the conferences and the great debate, to which is now added the trajectory overseas 5.0, dear to the Minister for Overseas Affairs. But this time is now over: we expect a little consideration; acts and decisions are absolutely necessary in the coming days in order to reduce the price of goods a little bit and raise the income of the Reunions. What decisions will be taken in their favour? What can the Government tell us about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u168	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u169	Mr President, I should like to apologise to Mrs Girardin, Minister for Overseas Affairs, who is on the move in the Pacific at the moment. You are raising an important and not new problem, that of expensive life in Reunion. Previous overseas ministers have already mobilized on this subject, but the results, as you said, do not always seem to correspond to the expectations of the people. That is why, as early as June last year, Mrs Girardin asked the Autorité de la concurrence to deliver an opinion on the functioning of the markets for the import and distribution of consumer products overseas. This opinion will be delivered in the spring. In the meantime, several measures have been taken. First, the negotiations conducted by the Prefect in the context of the price-quality shield discussions resulted in a price drop of almost 12%. Secondly, the prefecture is also working on the creation of a "basket pei" that would allow a modest family to prepare at least one meal a day from local productions. Indeed, the fight against expensive living must also involve the reorganization of local production chains. Thirdly, the Overseas Minister heard the angry Reunions who spoke during the yellow vest crisis. They have complained in particular about price differentials, which sometimes go from simple to double, which is not tolerable. It has appointed, jointly with Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance, an interdepartmental delegate for overseas competition, whose main mission is to strengthen price transparency by combating unfair commercial practices, cartels and abuse of dominant positions. He made his first trip to La Réunion in February; We will learn all the lessons from it. Fourthly, to speak of expensive living is also to speak of local taxation. Girardin announced, along with the President of the region, that the State would be a partner in the discussions on the granting of the sea. It has formulated a single imperative: to continue to protect local production. Finally, it also hoped that the Price, Margin and Income Observatory would involve a panel of fifty Reunions drawn by lot in its work. The draw took place. This unprecedented initiative will make it possible to give citizens a greater place in the design of price control policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u170	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u171	Your answer, Madam Secretary of State, was on price policy, but not on income policy. The Reunions are poor. What are you going to do to give them some purchasing power, especially to the 40,000 people whose income is below the threshold of 570 euros per month?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u172	Mrs Ericka Bareigts, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 623, on the time-limits for obtaining documents from the register of trade and companies in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u173	"I want to support businesses because I'm the job candidate. "We live in a world where we have a responsibility to support the creation, development and transformation of businesses. These were the words of candidate Emmanuel Macron. The entrepreneurs of Réunion believed in it, but today we all share, unanimously, the feeling of a huge waste. Indeed, the waiting times experienced by the companies of Réunion concerning the acts relating to the register of commerce and companies constitute an unacceptable entrepreneurial inequality between Réunion and France hexagonale. The situation is described as catastrophic. "We can no longer deal with business requests," said the President of the High Court and the Attorney of the Republic of Saint-Denis. There are currently only six staff members, while one audit mission estimated the number of staff required for normal operations to be sixteen. As a result, almost 25,000 files are waiting for processing with delays of eight to sixteen months, while in Hexagon, Infogreffe processes the files in four days. To obtain an extract of Kbis in La Réunion, the deadlines are between six and nine months compared to five days in Hexagon. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to remind you that as early as September 2017, we had a working session with the Cabinet of the Guard of Seals and that, at the end of April 2018, I took the same step with the Prime Minister's Office. It had been agreed that we would be able to receive additional staff, on an interim basis, to deal with stocks before a lasting solution was proposed. On May 25, 2018, the Minister of Overseas Affairs announced the privatization of the Registry on January 1, 2019. Unfortunately, we note that none of these commitments have been met. Stock's blowing up. I would remind you that it amounts to 25,000 cases and that the lasting solution could, it seems, only intervene at the end of 2019. My question is simple: how and when do you intend to solve this problem, which is an economic emergency for our creators of wealth and employment? At the moment, our colleague David Lorion has highlighted very well the emergency situation created at Réunion by the high unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u174	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u175	Madam Member, you are referring to a legitimate source of discontent for the business leaders and the various economic actors of Réunion. The management of the ultramarine business registers and companies – RCS – had benefited in 2014 from a broad plan of the Ministry of Justice, but the significant improvements that followed did not persist. In order to make these essential services available to companies in a sustainable manner and to provide them with services equivalent to those enjoyed by companies in metropolitan France, it was decided to entrust the management of the registries of the mixed commercial courts – TMC – to the clerks of the commercial courts. Consequently, the management of SCNs will be carried out by professionals who are now in charge of almost all business registers and metropolitan companies, and whose deadlines are particularly controlled. Aware of the problems caused by the current delays, the keeper of the seals wanted this decision to be implemented as quickly as possible, but, of course, in compliance with the existing texts. As a result, the effective transfer of the management of the registries of the mixed commercial courts in Réunion could only take place at the end of the legislative experiment provided for by the Act of 6 August 2015, i.e. from 1 January 2019. It is also necessary to issue a decree in the Council of State and several decrees, some of which are common to the Ministry of Budget, governing the process of appointing a ministerial officer. An inventory has been prepared. Travel between the Judicial Service Directorate and representatives of the National Council of Registrars of Commercial Courts took place within each department concerned. The transfer operations are under way, leading to the appointment of a clerk of the commercial court before the end of the first half of 2019 with regard to the TMCs of Réunion and, in real estate terms, the Chancellery accompanies the necessary actions in the framework of the reform both in Saint-Pierre and in Saint-Denis. In the meantime, special follow-up will be provided not only for the piloting of transfer operations, but also to ensure that the transitional period does not lead to a further worsening of the situation of these SCNs. Courts' support will continue until the effective completion of the transfer of the activity. We support as much as possible the processing of cases that have accumulated over the years. Indeed, we are well aware of the difficulties that this problem poses to companies in Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u176	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u177	Madam Secretary of State, I regret that you have not provided a firm date, not to me, but to the economic operators who are expecting one. No doubt you can't do it. Another point remains unanswered: how to absorb the stock of 25,000 files? If private operators take care of it, they will do so on a financial basis. You didn't say that. Finally, if the task is not entrusted to a private operator, what additional staff is available?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u178	Mr Ludovic Pajot, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to Question No 630 by Mr Louis Aliot, concerning the Franco-German agreement on arms exports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u179	Madam Secretary of State, I should like to apologize for the absence of my colleague Louis Aliot, who has been held up by transport problems. He wanted to ask you about a Franco-German arms export agreement. According to German sources, this secret agreement was concluded on 14 January and would resolve the fundamental question of German opposition to exports outside NATO or similar areas. While it is true that this agreement does exist, our movement is indignant that, given its political, diplomatic and industrial scope, it has not been brought to the attention of national representation and made public. We therefore call for its immediate publication in order to verify whether or not this bilateral agreement finally brings the solution to the considerable difficulties created by the current German oppositions in terms of employment and diplomatic credibility. Several questions arise. What is the effectiveness of an agreement whose legal value is unknown? Was this one signed and by whom? What is its political and legal significance? Any Franco-German agreement on arms exports will only be effective if it is voted by both parliaments, i.e. if it enters into positive law. As a result of Germany's selfish policy, France lost skilled jobs and its diplomatic reputation was tainted. For our country, the stakes are no less than the safeguarding of skilled and non-relocable jobs, as well as our diplomatic credibility with the States that trust us. Thank you for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u180	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u181	Mr President, I could answer your question very quickly and very simply: there is no secret agreement between France and Germany on the issue of arms exports. In fact, there is no such thing on this or any other subject, contrary to what the rumours and legends that can be fed here or there claim to be. France and Germany are pursuing a dialogue that is part of a traditional diplomatic process. There were mails, meetings and exchanges. There'll be more. I can assure you that the Minister of the Armed Forces Florence Parly is particularly invested in this subject. On the day when an agreement can be reached, which we ardently wish, Parliament will naturally be informed of this and, if the agreement is adapted, will have to decide. We do indeed want to define the conditions for the sale of major and ambitious programmes which we carry in cooperation with Germany. I am thinking, for example, of replacing our tanks and combat aircraft. The preservation and development of defence jobs, as well as advanced technological know-how, have always been a major challenge for our government. Here, therefore, it demonstrates realism and pragmatism. Building cooperation projects among Europeans means building the capacity to weigh globally. However, cooperation must benefit from a framework that preserves our industry and know-how. This approach was enshrined in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, which states that "the two States will develop a common approach to arms exports with regard to joint projects. This is what we do on a daily basis, but, I repeat, no secret agreement between France and Germany has been signed or even envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u182	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to put her question, No. 628, on vocational training in Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u183	My question is for the Minister of Labour. It concerns two subjects which are the subject of a real expectation in Polynesia. The first concerns the securing of the partnership between the Joint Fund for the Management of Continuing Training of Employees of French Polynesia and its national counterpart, the Joint Fund for the Securing of Career Paths, the FPSPP, which has since become the France Competencies organization. These two structures had concluded in 2017 an agreement to strengthen the care of employees who came to train in Hexagon. Can the Government confirm to us its support for the sustainability of this partnership? Secondly, during the examination of the Vocational Training Act, we called for the extension of the so-called "territorial continuity" scheme, which helps to cover the cost of transport, to these specific cases. Since Polynesia is located 20000 kilometers from the metropolis, the price of the plane ticket allowing to connect the two oscillates around 1500 euros. As a result, our employees find it difficult to access the same training as those in Hexagone. We have asked for this system, which already exists for integration into employment, to be extended to employees. Although this is a solidarity scheme, it already has a sufficient amount of money. We would like the decree to specify that vocational training includes the continuing training of employees. This is the subject of my question: can the Government respond quickly to our request, and extend the missions of LADOM, the Overseas Agency for Mobility, and of this device to employees of French Polynesia who wish to receive vocational training?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u184	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u185	Madam Member, you are talking about two subjects. The first concerns the possibility of establishing agreements between France and the Joint Fund for the Management of Continuing Training of Employees of French Polynesia. It should be recalled that, in French Polynesia, the State is not competent in the field of employment and vocational training and that, on the other hand, the possibility of concluding ad hoc agreements is not provided for under France's missions, which are limited to those listed in Article L. 6123-5 of the Labour Code. The second topic concerns the application of territorial continuity to employees in the private sector in order to develop their skills and skills. The same article of the Labour Code provides that persons residing in French Polynesia and pursuing vocational training outside their territory of residence may benefit from aid paid by the State, in particular in the context of the implementation of the national policy of territorial continuity provided for in Article L. 1803-6 of the Transport Code. The assistance entitled "passport for the mobility of vocational training" is thus awarded to them when their community of residence does not have the training channel corresponding to their professional project. This aid, which contributes to the financing of transport tickets, installation and training costs, may allow the award of a monthly allowance to trainees. This aid is, in application of the regulatory part of the Transport Code, effectively reserved for persons benefiting from vocational training measures aimed at their sustainable integration into employment. However, its beneficiaries may carry out their training as employees on alternance contracts or apprenticeship contracts. Finally, I would like to point out that aid for territorial continuity is not conditional on a goal of sustainable integration into employment. We need to continue our work around these devices, so that Polynesians can take training even when they are not available in their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u186	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u187	Thank you for these points of answer. I would add, firstly, that the conclusion of the agreement between the FSPP, now France responsibilities, and the Joint Fund for the Management of the Continuing Training of Employees of French Polynesia was allowed by the vote of a Senate amendment introduced in the so-called "EROM" law – of programming relating to real equality overseas and laying down other provisions in social and economic matters – of 28 February 2017. Secondly, the current scheme refers to "integration into employment", particularly through alternance contracts and apprenticeship contracts. Nevertheless, the decree implementing the so-called "territorial continuity" regime restricts the scope of the law. While the latter includes vocational training, the decree refers only to apprenticeship and alternance. Where training is not available in a given territory, it may be necessary to travel to metropolitan France. I would therefore ask you to convey these details so that we can move forward on this issue and allow these employees to benefit from the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u188	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u189	The Conference of Presidents, meeting this morning, proposed to include in the agenda of the Assembly week of 25 March 2019 the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the commercial relations of wholesale distribution with suppliers; the bill adopted by the Senate on the boards of directors of the departmental fire and rescue services; the continuation of the proposal for a law to improve the cash flow of associations; the proposal for a law on the right to terminate health-related supplementary contracts free of charge; Finally, the bill, adopted by the Senate, to simplify company law. In the absence of any objection, it was so decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1163.u190	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate in view of the European Council of 21 and 22 March 2019; Questions on family policy. The meeting is adjourned.
