ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u1	Pursuant to articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, I declare open the special session convened by decree of the President of the Republic of 21 August 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u2	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u3	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u4	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Minister, you said in April that the emergency strike in several hospitals was not due to working conditions. Today, half of the public emergency services are on strike. Driven by the growing anger of healthcare workers, you are presenting in disaster a trompe l'oeil plan, which is not up to the extremely tense situation of our hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u5	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u6	Far from unlocking new appropriations, you finance the twelve, very vague measures contained in your plan – for a total of 754 million euros over three years – by redeploying existing budgetary resources from other services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u7	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u8	So we're going to undress Peter to dress Paul: we're far from what you're announcing as a re-foundation of emergencies. The untenable situation we are experiencing today calls for a rethinking of the hospital as a whole. But you do not respond to the demands of staff...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u9	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u10	... which, for the past six months, call for a moratorium on the closure of beds, the upgrading of their salaries and, above all, the increase in staff, a condition for the satisfactory care of patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u11	There are no new credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u12	On any of these points you do not provide a satisfactory answer, so the conflict may get bogged down. Your plan does not remedy the medical desertification that we all regret. Without a sufficient number of doctors, how can you implement the service of access to care that you intend to create in order to respond 24 hours a day to the requests for care of the French and to guide them in a timely manner? The announcement of your plan has caused great disappointment among all health care workers, who do not understand your obstinacy to ignore the existence of the problems they encounter every day. They rightly feel abandoned and despised. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, when will you finally hear the calls of these thousands of professionals who want only one thing, save the hospital and our health care system? When are you finally going to take the necessary steps for a real structural reform of our hospitals, to which all the French are attached?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u13	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u14	Just two months ago – and you were there at the time – the National Assembly voted for a profound transformation of our health care system...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u15	Blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u16	...intended to take into account the growing difficulties our fellow citizens face in accessing care. The plan "my health 2022" found a partitioned system, marked by the weak cooperation between health professionals, and where the hospital was the receptacle of dysfunctions. However, in the hospital, it is above all emergencies that make the cost of the difficulties of access to care: this finding is shared by all. From 10 million to 20 million in the space of 10 years, the number of emergency passages has doubled; This development does not reflect so much an increase in heart attacks as a real difficulty for our fellow citizens in obtaining an appointment-free consultation. The plan presented yesterday to all healthcare professionals – whether they are liberal, hospital, medical or paramedical – and the hospital federations concerned offer solutions and basic treatment...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u17	New credits?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u18	Where did the money come from?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u19	... to a fever widely expressed – and rightly so – by the professionals of these services, who live daily the influx of sick people, the incivilities, the impatience of our fellow citizens, and find it difficult to exercise their profession in favourable conditions. All the measures proposed – and I will have the opportunity to come back to them – are aimed at treating the disease, not the symptom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u20	Credit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u21	The symptom today is too many emergencies, too much pressure on professionals, too much difficulty in accessing downstream beds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u22	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u23	My question is to Mrs Nicole Belloubet, keeper of the seals, Minister of Justice. As we begin the review of the bioethics law that Ms. Buzyn, Ms. Vidal and yourself defend, the press announced this morning that the Government will recognize the filiation of children born to a GPA abroad. Articles mention the Government's intention to recognize this filiation of children born to GPA abroad by automatically transcribing it. Reference was also made to the publication of a circular on the question of the filiation of children born to GPA abroad. This information naturally raises questions when, as I recall, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister clearly reaffirmed their opposition to the GPA and you confirmed last night, together with Mrs Buzyn, that it was absolutely out of the question of calling into question this prohibition. The commodification of the human body seems to us to be an absolute ban on which we must not compromise, but we also know that the interests of the child presuppose that he may have a clear and solid filiation in the light of our rules of law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Brahim Hammouche also applauds]] In these circumstances, could you tell us what the Government's intentions are in this regard and, if circular, what the exact content and scope would be?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u24	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u25	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Member, first of all, I would like to strongly deny the information on the Government's alleged intention to automatically recognize the filiation of children born to GPA abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u26	But recognize it anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u27	GPA is banned in France and, together with my colleagues, I strongly reaffirmed it last night before the special committee. The Government does not intend to change the legal situation of children born to GPA. For these children, the rules for the establishment of filiation are based on well-established case law, which states as follows: the biological father, mentioned in the foreign civil registration certificate, is directly transcribed in the French civil registration; the second parent, father or mother of intention, must always pass through an adoption process to have his or her filiation recognized to the French civil status. This solution seems to me to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the prohibition of GPA which is contrary to our ethics and our right, on the other hand, the interest of the child to have his or her parentage established and to lead a normal family life. The Court of Cassation, following an opinion delivered by the European Court of Human Rights last April, will soon have to decide again. Once the decision has been rendered, an inter-ministerial circular will be issued to civil registrars and consulates to facilitate the proper application of these rules. This circular will not, in any way, be intended to modify the present law. On the contrary, it will be intended to recall the exact terms. In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, it will ensure the homogeneity of administrative practices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is exactly the intention of the Government. In any event, GPA will remain an absolute prohibition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u28	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u29	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, it took six months of an unprecedented crisis with half of the emergency services in our country on strike for you to agree to present a "refoundation pact". While some measures, such as the 24-hour access service, are in the right direction, they can only have long-term effects. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The real gap in your plan lies in its funding. When you announce 750 million euros in redeployment of existing appropriations without explaining what budget cuts you are going to make, you sign a pass-by and remain deaf to the Court of Auditors' recommendations to increase the number of emergency doctors by 20%. As a reminder, last June we asked you to release an additional EUR 600 million for this purpose. Minister, the deep and serious crisis in our health care system will not be solved simply by reorganization. Our system is efficient thanks to the excellence of our caregivers – that's why we created 39,000 jobs during the previous quinquennium. Without the recruitment of nursing staff and the creation of additional beds, your measures will remain cosmetic. What is the use of direct admission channels for the elderly without creating additional beds when the existing one is saturated? How can we strengthen the offer of medical consultations without an appointment in a city office or in a health centre, when the medical demography already does not allow us to meet the needs of the population? How to organize videos-assistance between residential institutions for dependent elderly – EHPAD – and the emergency medical aid service – SAMU – while the staff are understaffed and overloaded? [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Minister, are you going to become aware of the reality of the malfunctioning of our health care system, which makes the adoption of a moratorium on the closure of beds and the significant increase in the national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – on the occasion of the next Social Security Financing Bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u30	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] You're right to talk about a budget. I would remind you that we are the first government in ten years to have increased hospital fees to have given back all the frozen credits and to have increased the ONDAM: it had remained below 2% in the previous quinquennium; We increased it to 2.3% in the first year and to 2.5% last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u32	We have to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u33	You're right, we're not restructuring a health care system without funding. In the law of transformation of the health system, we have integrated budgets dedicated to this transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u34	Not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u35	We have planned €1.6 billion over four years to transform our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u36	Where do you take them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u37	For emergencies, beyond this amount, I released 750 million euros yesterday, 80% of which will be allocated to human resources and recruitment. I hear perfectly the difficulties and demands of caregivers in the field. We have therefore decided, in a restructuring plan, to allocate new budgetary appropriations for recruitment of staff in the next three years for an amount of EUR 600 million. It is the money of the French and I think it is reasonable to consider that this can help the emergency services and alleviate their current workload. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To the hospital staff who are currently on strike, I mean my admiration for the work they have been doing for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u38	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u39	What about hiring?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u40	I heard their difficulties. They had a risk premium of 100 euros. I will return to the measures dedicated to these personnel in the context of the next question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u41	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u42	Minister for Solidarity and Health, for almost six months, a large number of emergency services have been on strike. The reasons for this mobilization are polymorphic and relate to both organisational, human and financial aspects. Caregivers as a whole are calling for reform and strong measures. They wish to be able to continue to practise their profession within the framework of their professional ethics and with respect for the patients, in order to ensure that they are cared for according to their needs. Some of these claims certainly refer to local issues, which have been discussed and resolved by regional health agencies, RHAs; Others clearly call for national responses. I would like to acknowledge the effectiveness of the first steps taken by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health as early as July to respond to increased difficulties in the summer period, namely the granting of the lump sum risk allowance to all permanent non-medical staff in the emergency services and the SMURs, the increase in the appropriations allocated to the SRAs in order to support and strengthen the operation of the emergencies, as well as the financial support for the renovation of the emergency services. These measures were quickly followed by other announcements, based on the first conclusions of the flash mission led by Thomas Mesnier and Professor Carli, whose work and investment I would like to acknowledge. You presented them yourself last week at the CHU in Poitiers: these include direct admission for the elderly, video assistance in EHPADs and the possibility of transferring a patient from an ambulance to a general medical office. Madam Minister, during these six months, you have been working together with all the actors in the emergency environment, based on the proposals put forward by the flash mission, but also by relying on the ups and downs and the expertise of the RSAs. This methodology, based on the participation of the various actors, has led you to present a large-scale recasting pact, which is in line with the logic of the plan "my health 2022" and the reform of the health system that we voted for in early summer 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u43	It's too long! What's the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u44	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, could you please provide us with the guidelines and actions supported by the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u45	Thank you, my dear colleague. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u46	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, Member of Parliament, for the exceptional field work done by MP Thomas Mesnier and Professor Pierre Carli, President of the National Hospital Emergency Council. The mission I had given them was to offer me field solutions that we could deploy throughout the national territory, so as to relieve emergencies and relieve professionals in their work. I would like to go back to the measures for professionals working in emergencies today – I will detail the measures that relate to the upstream and downstream of emergencies. As early as July, in order to take into account the suffering at work, I made available funds so that all non-medical caregivers – nurses, caregivers, stretchers and reception workers – working in all emergency services would receive a risk premium of 100 euros net per month. This long-term risk premium will soon be supplemented by a cooperation premium of 80 net euros per month, which will be paid by all nurses who are committed to cooperation protocols. By creating these risk and cooperation premiums, we have already responded to the demands of caregivers. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond these measures, I would like to improve, in the long term, the work and competence of caregivers in hospital emergencies by creating advanced practice nurses and increasing the delegation of tasks to the latter, so that all the skills they are exercising today are recognised. This will also allow for the discharge of medical time. These reforms can be implemented in the coming weeks, in addition to the premium that has already been announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u47	President Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u48	Chairman of which group? It changes all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u49	Prime Minister, my question concerns the situation in Tunisia, where a presidential election will be held in two days' time following the death of the Tunisian President. On 23 August last, the candidate preferred by the polls was arrested and incarcerated. He is currently behind bars, so it was an empty chair that represented him during the debate between the candidates for the presidential election held yesterday. The one who must arrive in front of the first round and therefore participate in the duel of the second round, according to Tunisian polls, is thus again prevented from freely exposing his project. In doing so, it is all Tunisians who are prevented from expressing a democratic choice. I understand that France's role is not to interfere in Tunisian judicial cases. However, Prime Minister, in what democracy do we see, three weeks before the first round of a presidential election, the main candidate imprisoned and accused of tax evasion and money laundering? Prime Minister, we have all seen with happiness and hope the Arab spring that began in Tunisia. We saw that Tunisians were able to resist the drifts they had experienced in the past. Today, however, there are many French and, I believe, Tunisians who are concerned about the progress of a democratic process that can be described as curious, worrying and unique. France, which has long-standing and friendly relations with Tunisia, seems to me to be obliged to express this concern and to demand that the candidate be able, during the election, to present his programme, at least between the two rounds. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] Let me have a joke, Prime Minister. Incarceration is usually used to prevent escape. However, when one is a candidate in a presidential election, one does not seek to flee; Rather, it is the regime that is experiencing a flight forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u50	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u51	President Lagarde, you are asking me about the elections and the presidential election in Tunisia. You rightly recalled the old relations between our two countries, which are friendly relations, but also relations of hope since Tunisia experienced a few years ago, like France, the destabilization of terrorism – it made the choice of a democratic vitality that allows it to look at the future with confidence. While President Essebsi passed away on 25 July, a presidential election must be held in order to appoint a new President of the Republic; It will be followed by parliamentary elections. By disappearing, President Essebsi left a void in Tunisian political and democratic life. He was, I believe, one of the fathers of Tunisian democracy and modern Tunisia. Organizing elections in a country that returns to democracy is never simple, never acquired. It's always a challenge. Tunisia must therefore approach this challenge with confidence – it addresses it, moreover, with the desire to show that it has not changed in the fundamental choice it has made. France's objective is to ensure that these electoral deadlines take place in the best possible conditions. You yourself said, Mr.President Lagarde, that it is not for our country – and certainly not for the Prime Minister – to interfere or even comment on the functioning of judicial institutions in Tunisia, or on the general conditions for the organisation of the election. Like you, Mr. President Lagarde, I have taken note of the arrest of one of the candidates in the Tunisian presidential election. I do not want to comment on this decision taken by a judicial authority, but I mean how attentive and confident we are in this country's ability to follow the line it has chosen and which we support, politically and diplomatically, with a great deal of commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] What is at stake in Tunisian democracy is essential not only for Tunisia – as you yourself said, Mr.President Lagarde – but also for the entire region, probably for the Western Mediterranean, and therefore for France. As a result of your comments, I would therefore like to send a message to our Tunisian friends of great attention, great friendship, great confidence and great hope that the presidential election and then the general elections will rise to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u52	Mr Alain Bruneel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u53	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, act 2 of your Government is a bad retirement, it is a bad health. After more than six months of strike in the emergency services, you have just issued an umpteenth order. Once again, you type next to the nail: gauges far from the reality of the field, stranded language elements and a well-oiled communication plan that do not respond in any way to the deep crisis experienced by staff and patients on a daily basis. What you call "refoundation pact" does not take into account suffering, lack of material and human resources. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Two hundred and forty-nine emergency services on strike alert you. You have to hear them, you have to listen to them! You get out of your hat 750 million euros spread over three years. Where did that money come from? No one knows, except you. You planed the hospital's finances in 2018 and 2019 by $2.6 billion. We're wondering if you're gonna undress Paul again to dress James. Although all the unions and the inter-emergency collective have been calling for this for many months, you do not announce any massive reopening of beds, while more than 100,000 have been abolished in twenty years. You also do not announce any increase in staff or salaries. You're bragging about telemedicine, but behind the screens, you'll always need caregivers. It is more than urgent to hold meetings, a basin of life by basin of life, to take stock of the reality of health facilities. In your own words, Minister, "each has a share of the solution." In this spirit, on behalf of the Communist Group, I would formally ask you to submit to Parliament last May the bill tabled by our group introducing a moratorium on closures of establishments, services, beds and hospital groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u54	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u55	As far as the budget is concerned, I have just said: EUR 700 million, of which 80 % is allocated to the recruitment of additional human resources to deal with the emergency crisis, is not negligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u56	You're undressing the Secu!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u57	I have already responded to the need to upgrade emergency care providers, in particular to take into account the incivilities they suffer. I would like to recall here the measures of a plan that is intended to be comprehensive. First of all, it is a matter of rethinking support through the creation of an access service to care, SAS, which will allow you to find advice during a telephone call or online request in case of urgent need of an appointment-free consultation. This will enable users to be oriented in the health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u58	That's very insufficient!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u59	We are going to create 50 nursing homes with the most saturated services, those that know more than 50,000 emergency passes a year. We will expand the consultations without appointments, which will offer the same advantages as emergencies in terms of paying third parties, access to a simple biology and health transport platform, which will be fully covered even if it is not provided by an ambulance from the UAS. We will organise a direct entry of dependent elderly people into geriatric services, especially from EHPADs to avoid their passage to emergencies. Everyone knows that's the solution. For geriatricians as well as for families, for patients as for caregivers, avoiding an elderly person from going to the emergency room and waiting on a stretcher is a relief. Patients may also be treated directly by certain healthcare professionals, with direct access to massage therapists for sprains, back pain, pharmacists for the delivery of simple medicines. We will increase the protocols of cooperation on sutures and radiology prescriptions...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u61	Mrs Justine Benin, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u62	One hundred and four, Madam Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination: it is the number of women who have died under the blows of their spouses since the beginning of the year. They were 121 last year, 109 two years ago. Even today, in 2019, in all the territories of the Republic, women die, beaten, strangled, sometimes burned alive. Today, finally, after decades of silence...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u63	Centuries!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u64	Thousand years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u65	...our whole society is indignant every time a woman succumbs to the blows of a man. We think of those who are no longer here to speak. We think of those who, every day, experience fear, threat, blows, often in front of their children. We think of their loved ones, their families. We think of the associations that accompany them every day to save them from the grip of a violent spouse. You took note of this scourge, Prime Minister, opening a week ago a Grenelle against domestic violence that reflects the commitment of the Government and the majority. Initial emergency measures have already been announced. As you know, Madam Secretary of State, in some territories the number of violence against women has exploded. I'm thinking about overseas. In French Polynesia, domestic violence reaches 14% of the population; At my home in Guadeloupe, the figures jumped by 27% last year. Minister, what actions do you intend to take to ensure that the overseas countries and territories are fully integrated into this general mobilization against domestic violence?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u66	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u67	Before I answer your question in substance, Madam Member, I would like to thank all the parliamentarians who have committed themselves to the Grenelle de violence conjugales. As we have said, we will only be able to mobilize the entire society if all its components, especially political ones, engage in this Grenelle domestic violence. That was the case: thank you for that. With regard in particular to the Grenelle's commitment to domestic violence in the overseas territories, I would like first of all to say that among the many ministers who met in Matignon under Prime Minister Édouard Philippe, Minister Annick Girardin was in charge of the overseas territories. We are fully aware of the situation that you have described perfectly. It was thoroughly analysed in a report issued by the EESC about three years ago, particularly with regard to the economic dependency links that prevent women from leaving the home where they live with a violent spouse. That is why Annick Girardin and I will organise a Grenelle of domestic violence specific to the overseas territories by November 25. This Grenelle of domestic violence is a process that was launched by the Prime Minister on 3 September 2009 and will end on 25 November, World Day to Combat Violence against Women. The Grenelle des violences conjugales overseas will complement the local contracts against the violence that have already been signed in La Réunion and in Martinique in particular – we are waiting for their signature in Guadeloupe, where I can count on your commitment, Madam Member. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In addition, as in all the territories of that country, the Government will do everything in its power to combat domestic violence and femicide, including by going to the field, to meet all elected officials engaged in this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u68	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u69	For more than six months, angry caregivers have been mobilizing everywhere in France to save hospital emergencies from shipwrecks. Congratulations to them! At 92%, the French say they are grateful to these caregivers. They understand and support the 249 emergency services on strike. However, Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, last Sunday on France Inter, you found the exasperation expressed by a caregiver exaggerated. No, it wasn't an isolated testimony, it wasn't an excessive feeling! I will not speak today on behalf of the Inter-Emergences collective, which is holding a general assembly at this very moment, but I will echo those whom you are crushing by your austerity policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u70	How can we talk about austerity when we increase a budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. - Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In two years, you have saved 1.6 billion euros to the detriment of the public hospital, even though the number of emergencies has doubled in ten years, and 100,000 beds have been closed in twenty years. The consequences are disastrous. Today, as a great lord, you promise 250 million a year for emergencies! On a constant budget, there is a strong expectation that other health sectors will be subjected to this "repatriation" budget. If the EHPADs had sufficient staff, they would not be forced to transfer their residents to the hospital! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is not by moving problems from one service to another that you will find a solution. No doctor or caregiver would think that such a dose of austerity could bring any benefit to a sector as crucial as health. Instead, get the billions of euros from tax evasion, wealth tax or dividends from companies that relocate and sell everything! Remove the unjust wage tax that strangles our hospitals and costs them close to 6 billion euros! I make a solemn request to you, Madam Minister: accede to the demands of the caregivers on strike; Listen to the sling that bursts all over the country. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The discussion on the Social Security budget will open in a few weeks: Madam Minister, will you live up to the challenge?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u72	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Fiat, you mentioned the suffering of caregivers: I never deny it but on the contrary acknowledge it. As proof, I immediately took into account the testimonies of incivility and even aggression suffered by these professionals, and a bonus of 100 euros net per month has been awarded to them since July, in a lasting manner. They all got it. This premium has been extended to medical regulatory assistants in UAS, who suffer the same incivilities. Today, I propose a fundamental solution to the problem of emergencies. With regard to the approval of these services – and this is an opportunity for me to complete my reply to Mr Bruneel – the budget for the emergency plan, amounting to €750 million, will be spent 80 % on the recruitment of human resources where they are needed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u74	Not in every hospital!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u75	... in order to ensure better management of beds, to strengthen the emergency services that need them, and even to create new post-emergency units, be they geriatric or multi-purpose medicine. This will represent additional beds. There is no provision to prevent the reopening of beds where necessary. I made the commitment yesterday, and I reaffirm it today. This will allow us to loosen the stranglehold on emergency services. For the first time last year, the national health insurance expenditure target, ONDAM, increased by 2.5%. And for the first time in ten years, hospital rates have grown. I will work to maintain this momentum again this year as part of the Social Security Funding Bill. Our goal is to have at least the same capacity to finance the hospital as last year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are also working on a plan to restructure other services in difficulty, such as psychiatry services. We therefore work with caregivers, for caregivers and for the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u76	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u77	My question is addressed to the Secretary of State for Gender Equality and the Fight against Discrimination. Tonight, she went to bed. The argument and the beatings between his parents are over; It's all quiet. She's finished crying; She's falling asleep. Soon she will be awakened by a shot; Mother's blood will smear the carpet. That was 42 years ago. Her mother's name was Danielle, she was murdered by her husband. Together with her brothers and sisters, she discovered the meaning of the word "orphan". In 2019, women victims of femicides are called Monica, Julie or Salomé. 104 of them died under the blows of their spouse, ex-spouse or boyfriend. How many others are still trapped in violence, waiting for beatings or insults? This phenomenon is obviously not new, but it is no longer tolerable. 3.9.19, Madam Secretary of State, you have launched the Grenelle des violences conjugales in order to study possible avenues for the evolution of our society. Detecting, preventing, protecting is the Grenelle's challenge of domestic violence. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR, IUD GDR and FI groups]] Let us not forget the children: 140,000 of them live in a home where a woman, their mother, is the victim of violence. Let us not forget these orphans of mothers and children of murderers who, throughout their lives, must bear the weight of their history. Their burden is even heavier when their father retains parental authority – while, no!, a violent husband will never be a good father! These children also have to face the day their mother's murderer leaves prison, and perhaps they will be sentenced to support him when he is old. They must be better taken care of. [[Feeded applause on all benches. - Many Members of the LaREM Group stand up]] Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us more about the Grenelle you launched and about the first measures announced to combat femicides? Can you assure me that the situation of children will be well taken into account in the discussions, especially regarding their legal ties with their violent parent?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u78	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u79	Madam Member, you have described the scourge of domestic violence perfectly. While some anthropologists believe that it has existed since ancient times, the time has come to fight it. Society seems ready to stop hiding the dust under the carpet and to face the reality of domestic violence and the extent of femicides in France as in other countries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On 3 September, the Prime Minister launched the Grenelle des violences conjugales in Matignon, associated with a large part of his government. The date of 3.9.19 echoes call number 3919. Before the Grenelle of domestic violence, 9% of French people knew this emergency number. In the aftermath of the Grenelle of domestic violence, they are 54%. On a regular weekday, the 3919 receives 140 calls – calls for help and help, testimonies. On the day of the Grenelle launch, September 3, 2019, more than 1600 calls were processed by this service. These figures, among others, reveal the extent to which the commitment of society as a whole is necessary. When society as a whole mobilizes to change things, calls can be heard. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Secretary of State Adrien Taquet and I are fully mobilized to protect children whose homes are victims of violence. A working group is specifically dedicated to this. As the Prime Minister pointed out – and this is one of the first commitments of the Government – we need to move forward and amend the law with regard to parental authority. For the first time, a prime minister told Matignon that a violent husband, a man who did not respect the law or the mother of his children, was not a good father. With you, we will continue to make progress in dealing with these subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u80	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u81	Prime Minister, every one of us here loves Tunisia. We have an intimate connection with this friendly country. I'd say more, brother country. My question concerns the early presidential election to be held in Tunisia on 15 September. Winston Churchill said, "Democracy is a bad system, but it is the worst of all systems. » The Tunisian people elected Béji Caïd Essebsi, a great State clerk, the first President of the Republic, in a free presidential election. He left us this summer, hastening the holding of this great democratic rendezvous. The stakes are crucial for Tunisia. As a French Member of Parliament for this country, I have been told of several fears about the risks of undermining the current democratic process. At this very moment, one of the main candidates is locked up in a prison, as President Jean-Christophe Lagarde recalled, which prevents him from conducting a normal campaign. The same candidate, Mr. Nabil Karoui, underwent several manoeuvres to prevent him from running. The first was to attack the channel Nessma TV. The second was to have a retroactive election law passed in order to eliminate his candidacy. The electoral law was not promulgated by the President of the deceased Republic, who had denounced the anti-democratic nature of the law. His son, Hafedh Caid Essebsi, at the head of the first Tunisian political party, Nidaa Tounes, whom I received in Paris, informed me of the risk of authoritarian drift of the executive. Today, without a fair trial, without respect for the presumption of innocence, Nabil Karoui is simply imprisoned. The European Union deplored him yesterday in a press release. Without interference, respecting the national sovereignty of this great friendly people, what is France's position as one of the observers for the European Union?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u82	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u83	Mr M.P., the Prime Minister has already responded earlier, questioned by President Jean-Christophe Lagarde. I will complement his remarks by recalling the importance of this moment for Tunisian democracy. This is a major step, following the death of President Essebsi, since presidential elections will be held in the coming days, followed by parliamentary elections. France occupies a double position, marked by trust and respect. Trust in the Tunisian people, their maturity and the serenity they have shown since the Jasmin revolution, including in particularly difficult times, during the attacks. Trust in Tunisian institutions that Tunisians have built up since the Jasmin revolution. Trust in the electoral process since an electoral commission has been set up which will allow the exercise of a right of appeal and which has validated twenty-six candidates – not one, but twenty-six! The Commission shall exercise its mandate under the law conferred upon it. Finally, respect for Tunisian sovereignty, the independence of justice and the functioning of these courts. We hope that this young democracy, for which we have a great deal of friendship, will not miss these two major meetings. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to point out, Mr President, that France is very active in the Commission of the European Union, in order to ensure that the electoral process is calm. Finally, in collaboration with the Minister of the Interior, Christophe Castaner, we are ensuring that the electoral system for the 150,000 Tunisians residing in France works perfectly next Sunday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u84	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u85	Minister of National Education and Youth, the assault of a professor at Branly High School in Créteil, on the eve of the 2018 Toussaint holidays, had aroused a strong emotion among the entire population. In this context, many teachers and national education staff have expressed their unease and their need for support and training in the face of the physical and verbal violence that they are sometimes, alas, the target. As of 31 October 2018, you have submitted immediate implementing measures. To complement them, the Government has undertaken a wide-ranging dialogue to identify concrete measures to prevent violence and to strengthen the protection of schools. Béatrice Gille, rectrator of the Montpellier Academy, Agnès Le Brun, Mayor of Morlaix, Hubert Schmidt, Inspector General of National Education and myself, was given a mission in this direction. Our work has involved three key areas. The first was to secure the surroundings of the establishments by strengthening links with the security forces and local and regional authorities. We also wanted to accompany the parenting and responsibility of families to prevent violence, incivilities or school absenteeism. Finally, we have given concrete answers to the situation of highly disruptive pupils in the first degree and excluded several times in the second degree, by creating educational structures that can temporarily accommodate them. At the end of the mission, we presented you with many proposals to move forward on this issue, with emphasis on student supervision, parenting and parenting. On 27 August, you presented a number of measures to combat violence in schools at your press conference during the school year. Can you inform the national representative of the outline of this plan, which, we all hope, will help to combat all forms of school violence in a sustainable manner?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u86	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u87	Thank you for this question, but also for the work you have done with Mrs Beatrice Gille, Mrs Lebrun and Mr Schmidt. Your work has made it possible to draw up a plan, now public, which everyone can consult in detail on the ministry's website. It is available to school heads and national education staff. This plan is divided into three parts. The first, which concerns the surroundings of the establishment, is the result of interministerial work, carried out in particular with Christophe Castaner and Laurent Nunez. We will pay particular attention to the surroundings of the establishments and to the police presence, especially in the areas of republican reconquest. Secondly, the question of parental responsibility arises. From now on, once a pupil has been excluded twice during the year, a protocol signed by the family and the academy inspector will automatically be put in place and will specify the rights and duties of the family in order to put the student back in the right direction, from an educational point of view. The problem of polyexcluded pupils, who were sent back more than twice in the year, concerned 1500 pupils in France. So far, the only solution was to refer them to another institution. From now on, they will be directed to one of the 300 relay devices we activate. We will also open relay boarding schools, as much as necessary. In the most serious cases, it will be possible to enroll the student in this system, even without the consent of his family. We focus on prevention. We create mobile teams, including psychiatrists, that can intervene up to the first degree for extremely disruptive students. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the quality of the work done with the seal keeper and the Minister of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u88	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u89	Times change and certain historical certainties with them. Boris Johnson thus seems to make the great Winston Churchill lie, who declared, in a well-churchillian formula: "England collapses in order and France rises in disorder. Today, the disorder has settled on the British side and the prospect of an exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement on October 31 is increasingly worrying our fellow citizens, whether they are individuals, tourists, expatriates or entrepreneurs. In the Hauts-de-France region to which I belong, the question is naturally sensitive. Let me share with you some of our questions. First of all, what are the practical discussions on the implementation of the French and British contingency plans on the ground, i.e. in Calais, Dunkirk and at the entrance to the tunnel, but also at Dover and the Cheriton terminal? Secondly, if it is planned to recruit an additional 700 customs officers by 2020 in view of the re-establishment of border control, what will happen until they reach their full level? Moreover, when will the reinforcements of French customs and air and border police personnel be deployed in Dover and at the entrance of the tunnel, as recommended by regional prefect Michel Lalande? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and MODEM groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, when and how will the smart border system, which Mr Darmanin says he wants to test, be implemented? It appears that companies will be involved on a voluntary basis. But what about the other companies? Are they sufficiently responsible, as the deadline is fast approaching?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u90	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u91	I would like to answer for Jean-Yves Le Drian, under the authority of the Prime Minister. Brexit is indeed of great importance, not only for Europe and for the French nation, but also for our region – if I may say so – that of the Hauts-de-France. Yesterday, the Prime Minister brought together all members of the Government and some government officials to address this issue and to continue preparations, begun last March, for a no deal also called hard Brexit. France has a special connection with its British friends thanks to the port of Calais, which you mentioned, and to the tunnel under the Channel which represents a European singularity: 4 million trucks pass each year between Calais and Great Britain. Other ports, airports and places are concerned, such as the Norman facade – especially the city of Le Havre...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u92	And Dieppe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u93	... and Ouistreham, where I will visit next Wednesday and Thursday – Dunkirk, the Breton facade – which you know so well, Mr President and Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs – as well as New Aquitaine. Six hundred of the 700 new customs officers you were talking about, Mr. Ledoux, have already been recruited and trained; They're on duty. Equipment ready since March has been installed: we have built giant car parks in Calais and Dunkirk, especially around the port. The smart border, which will help avoid traffic jams, will also be on the way. Accompanied by the Secretary of State for Transport, I myself will carry out seven tests in September and October. You are also asking me how our British friends have prepared themselves. We don't know...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u94	Neither do they!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u95	...and we have some questions. We received the minister responsible for Brexit on French soil and showed him what we can do; We are now interested in solutions that will be found overseas, especially in Dover. It is obvious that the work of the French customs officers and the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture is to protect the common market from what will come from Britain, not to deal with border protection in England on behalf of the English. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, IDU and MODEM groups]] Mr Le Drian and I will therefore work together in a pragmatic way, under the authority of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u96	Thank you, Minister, for answering this question from the Hauts-de-France without forgetting Normandy or Brittany.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u97	[[Applause on various benches]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u98	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u99	The bioethics bill, which will soon be discussed in this House, will profoundly change the rules that apply to medically assisted procreation with third-party donors. After almost fifty years of anonymous donation, which included a strategy of matching blood groups and physical traits, so that the child could be perceived from outside as likely to be from the father or mother, and a promotion assumed from the lie until the 1994 revision, this bill provides that "any child conceived by means of reproductive medical assistance with third-party donors may, by his majority, access unidentifiable data relating to that third-party donor, and if he so wishes, gain access to the identity of that third-party donor". Finally, the child's right to know the history of his/her conception and to access the genitor or genitor who has transmitted genes to him/her that necessarily define a part of his/her health capital, his/her physical and also his/her identity. Because a gamete donation is not a donation of blood or organs: if it does not change in any way what the child's family is, composed of the parents who raise it and educate it, we can no longer do "as if" in 2019, not at a time when we multiply knowledge in terms of genetic predispositions. This text therefore has the merit of finally giving a word and rights to the child, which has been forgotten so far. But for all those who were conceived before the law, what will happen in practice? Before 1994, it is impossible to say whether the same donor gave birth to 10, 100 or 500 children. After 1994, control is in theory more important, with a limitation to ten children. If it is planned to let these children and former donors contact the Biomedicine Agency, how will access to their history be made concrete? For now – and again, when they have known of their conception – they have only 23andme or MyHeritage, so-called recreational genetic testing sites, to find their donor illegally. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Does France, which may have made a mistake in advocating complete anonymity for fifty years, have an alternative to offer them? Shouldn't old donors be encouraged to show up?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u100	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u101	Before I answer, I would like to stress the serenity in which the debate is taking place in the special commission to examine the bioethics bill. Because the subjects we address are of great technicality and often touch upon very intimate pains. With regard to access to origins in the context of medically assisted reproduction, we are in fact preparing a paradigm shift. This is a turning point in relation to the era of the promotion of secrecy, because we know today that children need, in order to build themselves, to access data that is not identifiable or even identifiable. We are putting everything in place to make this possible in the years to come. I hear your concerns about children born by LDCs with third-party donors prior to this bill; the text does not regulate them. We are thinking about how to encourage former gamete donors to make themselves known to the commission that we are going to set up to allow future children to access their origins. We will launch an awareness-raising campaign for donors who would like to enable children to build themselves by accessing their origins. However, since the law is not retroactive, I do not wish us to reconstitute the former donors with whom we are bound by contract. When they gave anonymously, the State undertook not to contact them again; the procedure provided for in the draft law is therefore not applicable to them as it stands. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Please note, however, that we hear the request of children born by LDCs prior to the adoption of this text. We will ensure that all those who agree to make themselves known can contact the Commission as soon as it is established.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u102	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u103	My question is addressed to the Minister of National Education and Youth and concerns the inclusion of disabled children in the school of the Republic. Minister, on June 11, you announced a series of measures to make the school "fully inclusive." You added that the families of students would be better accompanied in the 2019 school year. On the ground, however, the situation is different. If the number of children with disabilities in school is increasing slightly in 2019, the situation is very unsatisfactory in view of your ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u104	It's a disaster!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u105	I was asked by the parents of a little boy, Gustave, who has a notification granted for 3 years, from 2018 to 2021, for an accompaniment on the time of schooling. In the 2018-2019 school year, Gustave benefited from an individual school life assistant, but the same is not true in this school year. Indeed, what a surprise it was for Gustave's parents to learn on the 2nd of September, the day of the school year, that there was no AESH – accompanying students with disabilities – for him, for lack of budget. Gustave may be suffering from a rare disease, but he is not the only one in this situation. I do not forget the Ines, Romain, Andrea and many others who today cannot go to school because of lack of budget or lack of staff. Minister, I do not criminalize your virtuous ambition, but it does not translate into action. The 4500 jobs you are reporting are not created, as they help compensate for the jobs you have lost. The balance is far from the 4500 net new posts. The fact that I share with many colleagues, parents and educational staff is that there is a lack of human and financial resources and that many children cannot attend school. Where's the inclusion you're advocating? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, I appreciate how much responsibility you have on this issue, because there is an urgent need to act. Can you indicate what your intentions are to correct this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u106	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u107	Your question is about a very important subject and, as you said, I described it as "essential" in this very great change. The special cases exist – I will come back to that – but if you look at what is happening throughout France, there are indeed about 30,000 more disabled pupils in this school year, bringing the number of disabled pupils in France to about 370,000. We have created 4500 AESH positions, which is our first difference – more than compensation for the jobs that previously existed. Look at the results: two years ago, students were only accompanied by assisted contracts. Today, they are almost exclusively by AESHs, i.e. renewable three-year contracts which, as promised, can lead to CDIs. Of course, recruitment problems can arise here and there. I just checked out what was happening in the Orne, your department. Today, about 10 cases are pending, representing 3.8 per cent of the cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u108	It's still too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u109	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Of course, these problems are intended to be solved, Gustave's case will obviously be resolved in the next few days. I think it is more appropriate in reality to examine on a case-by-case basis the problems that may still exist. For the whole of France, this percentage is in the range of 3 to 5%, the best percentage ever observed. In previous years, under other governments, this figure was 10 or 15 per cent. The situation is therefore improving, as also evidenced by the service provided to families since we guarantee a response within 24 hours for any calls in each departmental cell. Together with all the actors and Sophie Cluzel, we have done a substantive work that is bearing fruit in this new year: quantitative, budgetary work – the resources devoted to this subject have increased by 25% – but also qualitative, organizational, to make a better service to families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u110	Mr Anthony Cellier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u111	My question is to the Minister of the Interior. Minister, this summer again, thousands of hectares of garrigues, pine forests and forests burned in the Mediterranean departments. But fires have also multiplied everywhere in France, in previously less affected departments: Creuse or Charente-Maritime, for example. The risk of fires will increase and increase, both in France and elsewhere. These are the consequences of droughts and heat waves, which are amplified by global warming. In my department, the Gard, there are almost a thousand fires and more than a thousand hectares of forests have burned. Homes, farms, fields and work tools have been damaged or destroyed. [[Ladies and gentlemen Members rise and applaud]] But on 2 August, in the middle of the summer, it was a life we lost: that of one of our pilots, Franck Chesneau, pilot of a Tracker 22, who was fighting on that day with his colleagues, on the ground as in the air, against the fire of Générac Frank is the very definition of hero. I want here, before and with the national representation, to pay tribute to him and to have a special thought for his wife Eva, as well as for his two children, Tom and Lola. I would also like to salute our firefighters, our civil security services and our law enforcement personnel who are relentlessly fighting the fires and thus protecting the people with the self-denial and professionalism that characterize them. [[Applause on all benches]] In the face of this particularly virulent fire season, at a time when part of our air fleet is on the ground, can you, Minister, inform us about the means involved, but also those that will be made available for fighting and preventing fires, as well as about the measures taken to crack down on malicious acts?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u112	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u113	This year, as you said, forest fires have particularly – but not only – affected the south of France. On the occasion of your question, Mr Chesnot, you wished, and I thank you, to refer to Franck Chesnot's memory. This tribute to national representation is clear to those who, like you, are women and men from the south. We know that in the heart of summer, in the torpor of heat, every time we hear in the sky the sound of a Tracker, a Canadair, a Dash, an anguish takes us to the belly because we know it's burning somewhere. We know the exceptional commitment of Franck Chesneau, whom I had met a few weeks before the drama, with all his comrades. He had appeared totally passionate, devoted, ready to intervene at any time of the day, of course, but also sometimes of the night, taking considerable risks. That's what he did that day, August 2, to save a mas. He intervened, an accident happened and he left us. I thank you from the bottom of your heart for your tribute. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Through your question, you evoke this difficult season that we have known: 7200 hectares of forest burned but also 13337 hectares of stubble, everywhere in France. If we need indicators on global warming, that is one of them. So yes, we have to react. That is why it is essential to strengthen our air fleet. A few weeks ago, on the basis of Nîmes-Garons, I welcomed the new Dash. Two more Dash will complete our forces from the coming year. It is eight Dash in all that will be mobilized, allowing us to adapt our response force, in support of our ground firefighters who are also doing extraordinary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u114	We have completed the questions to the Government. [[Smile and applause]] Before suspending the sitting, I wish the members of the parliamentary rugby team who will soon be participating in the World Cup of Parliaments every success, asking them to bring us a big slam and not squash it with wood.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u115	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u116	[[The sitting was suspended at 4.05 p.m. and resumed at 4.15 p.m. with Mr Sylvain Waserman in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u117	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u118	I should like to inform the National Assembly that the President has taken note, pursuant to Article L.O. 176 of the Electoral Code, the cessation, on August 16, 2019 at midnight, of the term of office of MP for Mr.Mounir Belhamiti and the resumption of the exercise of the mandate of Mr.François de Rugy, whose government functions ended on July 16, 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u119	The next item is the debate on the mobility guidance bill (No. 2135, 2206). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the 25-hour groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u120	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u121	Still on your bench a few days ago, and as a result of the review of the mobility orientation bill at first reading, I have the great honour of being with you today to discuss it on behalf of the Government. This bill is necessary, and its adoption is urgent. It is necessary because our mobility policy needs to adapt to the realities of our time and to the many legitimate expectations of our citizens. Indeed, there are many expectations, as the stakes of mobility lie at the heart of the territorial and social divide felt by some of our fellow citizens, who spoke on this subject, in particular, during the great debate. Too many French people feel abandoned in our territories because they have no other solutions than the car; and they feel all the more abandoned when, in addition, the setting up of two lanes on their road has been delayed for years or when the small nearby railway line is degraded or is no longer used. The second very strong expectation is obviously the ecological imperative. Transport, as you know, is responsible for 30% of our greenhouse gas emissions. Air pollution kills every day, so we cannot remain inactive. Our mobility policy must address these climate and public health issues. Finally, it is necessary to turn the page of the policy pursued for so many years, that of large projects too often financed to the detriment of the mobilitys of the daily or, worse still, announced, promised and presented, but unfortunately not funded. It is an imperative need to start from the need of users to develop an answer to the challenges of daily mobility, an answer that allows everyone to go to work, to go out, to train, to shop, in short, to have the opportunity to move without any unfathomable difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u122	That's the whole question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u123	These findings, which were highlighted during the National Assembly on Mobility, were confirmed during the major debate. Since the launch of the Assises almost two years ago today, this text has been the subject of extensive consultation. The workshops of the Assises, the work of the IOC – the Infrastructural Guidance Board – and the exchanges with the various stakeholders enabled us to qualify the need and build responses. We can be proud of that. We can also be proud of the work of Parliament, which has made it possible to enrich considerably a text that has passed through long night sittings in which I have participated, from 50 to more than 150 articles. In this regard, I should like to commend the work of all those who have been involved in this task, in particular that of President Barbara Pompili, and the rapporteurs here. I would also like to commend the work of the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Élisabeth Borne, who has defended this text with great passion and conviction for the past two years. It's no secret to anyone, we didn't really think we'd be here again. The balance found at first reading met, I believe, the expectations and needs of our fellow citizens. This new reading must be an opportunity to make, mainly, clarifications and some adjustments. With this bill, we intend to provide very concrete answers for the French; Some of them will be visible quickly, and in a tangible way, in the daily lives of each and every one. I am thinking of the lower price of driving licences, which will be an opportunity for many, especially the younger ones, as well as the lower cost of car parts: this is again, very concretely, a gain of the order of 10% for French households. Finally, I am thinking of the mobility package and individual assistance, up to 400 euros, which companies can pay to help their employees on their daily journeys. The State will also set an example with civil servants, who will be able to receive EUR 200 from 1 January 2020. I know that many entrepreneurs are ready to put this in place as soon as the law is enacted. Other measures, just as concrete, will be implemented in the medium term. I will take two examples. The first is our commitment to invest 13.4 billion euros in our transport infrastructure throughout the quinquennium: these are all tracks on which trains will be able to return to normal speed, as many redeveloped roads, which will ultimately result in shorter journey times, and safer and more comfortable journeys for all. The second example is the obligation on transport operators to open their data. Everyone must be able to make the journey he wants, from Nîmes to Valencia or from Limoges to Bordeaux, and choose a multimodal journey paid in one click. In short, it is necessary to adapt the supply to the needs of everyday life and to the technological developments of our society. Several measures, finally, accompany profound and long-term changes, which will upset our daily lives. I am thinking here of the vote which led to the ban on thermal vehicles by 2040: this is an environmental imperative, but also an industrial and cultural revolution that must be accompanied. For the entire automotive sector, which accounts for 400,000 jobs in France, the change is therefore considerable. We owe visibility to our manufacturers, so that they can prepare properly for it. The development of the bike is also much expected by the French. Cycling is good for health, and it's good for the planet, Madam President Pompili.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u124	[[Smile]] That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u125	In this regard, the bike plan provides very concrete answers and removes undisputed barriers to investment and safety. But, for this to work, all children need to know how to ride a bike. The obligation to teach them from the sixth is a major step forward, which may not seem like anything but which, I believe, is indicative of our approach, which is to deal with problems at the root. Finally, let us all have in mind that this text, which will be adopted by the end of the year, is only a step. In its application, the method of consultation and dialogue, which has proved its worth, must be applied. This bill is a tool for the territories, and it is the territories that will have to make it live. Citizens and elected representatives will be the driving forces and you, as representatives of the nation, will have an important role to play in making effective the right to mobility for all and the right to live in a healthier environment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the shorter term, the next step, even before the final adoption of this text, will obviously be the finance bill, which will support its financing. I have no doubt that we will have an opportunity to debate at length, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u126	Mr Bruno Millienne, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u127	So here I am again before you to talk about the mobility orientation bill, which I have the honour of being one of the rapporteurs for this chamber. My intervention of the day will, for you as for me, be like a strange "unending day," according to the title of this film of the early nineties, in which Bill Muray almost tirelessly relives the same day. This is how the work of our House goes, and while I can only regret that we have reached the agreement hoped for in the Joint Joint Committee, I welcome the work done by our House on a text particularly awaited by the French and the territories. I will not go back to the reasons for the failure of the consultation with our friends in this chamber, who, for the most part, have shown a decisively constructive spirit. Let me pay tribute, in particular, to Didier Mandelli, rapporteur in the Senate, with whom we were pleased to work. That being said, and despite this damaging failure, we must move forward. The time allocated to me for the general debate is ten minutes and, as I say at the outset, I will not abuse it, as I believe that everything has already been said about this text and its ambitions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u128	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u129	... in particular on Title I, on governance. Allow me, however, to refer to the state of mind which enlivens me at this moment, and which I hope, and know, will be shared by many of you. The expectations of citizens, businesses and our territories are great and strong. They urge us to keep the spirit of openness, constructive, guided by the interests of our fellow citizens alone, who have presided over our work so far. This state of mind led, at first reading, to the adoption by a very large majority – 372 votes in favour and 40 against – of a text enriched with valuable and solid contributions. As I said in committee, if progress is certainly still possible on a few issues, the vote last June obliges us. I therefore do not want this new examination to be an opportunity to reopen discussions on topics that have already been the subject of lengthy exchanges and votes. I would like to see the greatest possible efficiency in moving quickly, not to rush us, but to ensure that the new framework for public action on mobility policy is understood as soon as possible and in the best possible conditions by the territorial authorities. To this end, the time for parliamentary debate is useful, even indispensable, provided that it remains constructive and away from strictly partisan or dogmatic considerations. A little over 150 amendments are before our House for consideration on Title I, which I would like to remind you of the objective: to better meet the daily needs of citizens, territories and businesses. Let us keep this objective in mind. Any amendment that goes in its direction will receive a favourable opinion from me, without reservation. On the other hand, any amendment that undermines this objective, particularly by unnecessarily complicating a text that we want as simple and flexible as possible, will meet my benevolent but firm opposition. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by recalling my deep commitment to decentralization and its virtues, to the necessary trust that we owe to our territories and to their elected representatives. There is no need to mention them all in the text: the most important is, and will remain, what elected officials, territories, businesses and citizens will make new tools available to them, how they will take them, how they will face the challenges of 21st century mobility, a more ecological, ambitious mobility, more just in that it will benefit all and leave no part of French territory – and I say well: none – on the margins. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I know that I can count on all of us to ensure that our work is up to the challenges, i.e. committed, open and free from partisan straitjacket.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u130	Mrs Bérangère Couillard, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u131	Title II of the mobility policy bill, of which I am rapporteur, deals with the development of innovation and mobility solutions for all. Strongly enriched during its consideration in the National Assembly at first reading, it first provides for the opening of data and the development of digital mobility services. This will allow the emergence of new services that will simplify the daily travel of our citizens: I am thinking in particular of people with disabilities or reduced mobility, for whom, at first reading, we have reinforced the obligations to collect accessibility data. We have also recast the legal framework applicable to multimodal ticketing services in order to facilitate their emergence while at the same time addressing any risk of disintermediation of mobility organising authorities. At the re-reading in committee, we set a single date, 1 December 2021, for the entry into force of the obligation to supply digital beacon data, regardless of the supplier. As far as multimodal ticketing services are concerned, we have also adopted several amendments in committee which have clarified and secured the legal framework adopted at first reading. Title II of the bill also facilitates the development of shared mobility, including carpooling, in order to combat autosolism. In particular, it offers mobility solutions in areas where public transport does not always meet the daily mobility needs of our citizens. Article 15 allows for the payment of allowances to carpoolers. This possibility was extended at first reading to drivers who, having proposed a journey, did not find passengers. These allocations will be derailed. We have also foreseen that the allowances for drivers offering short journeys may exceed the strict cost-sharing. Article 15 also allows the creation of reserved lanes for vehicles used in carpooling, for public transport, for vehicles with very low emissions, and for taxis. This will facilitate the development of cleaner and shared mobility. These various incentives were strongly strengthened at first reading in the National Assembly. In a new reading, we have made only a number of coordination or editorial changes in committee. During the first reading, we fully rewritten clause 18 of the bill in order to make free-floating vehicles, cycles and machines subject to the requirement of possession of a title of occupation in the public domain. This will make it possible to reconcile the development of these new forms of mobility with the need to regulate their occupation of public space. This title will be issued by the person who owns the public domain under the conditions defined by the general code of ownership of public persons: when space and the number of authorisations are limited, the public domain manager will have to initiate a competition procedure before issuing the titles. The title may take over the requirements laid down in the earlier wording of Article 18: conditions for deployment and withdrawal, compliance with safety rules and supervision of sound signals. These vehicles will not be subject to traditional parking charges, as their deployment may result in the payment of a public domain occupancy charge. In a further reading, in committee, we have specified that the title of occupation may, where appropriate, include requirements for the number of vehicles, cycles and equipment deployed, in accordance with the general code of ownership of public persons. Finally, in Article 20, we have created new rights for self-employed people in digital mobility platforms. It is the right to know the distance covered by the service they perform and the minimum guaranteed price from which they will benefit, the right to refuse a proposal for the provision of transport services without being subject to any penalty, the right to choose their working hours and periods of inactivity, the right to disconnect during their working hours without the platforms being able to terminate the contract when a worker exercises that right, and the right to training, with the possibility of benefiting from vocational training measures enabling the validation of the experience acquired, as well as the abundance of the personal account for the training of self-employed workers by the platforms. The platforms will also be required to publish on their website indicators relating to the duration of activity and the income from activity in relation to the activities of the workers in relation to them. At the same time, complementary social charters may be established by the platforms in order to grant their workers additional rights: professional skills development, information arrangements, supplementary social protection. The judge may not, on the sole elements contained in the charter approved by the administration, requalify a contract of employment. This will not prevent the judge from fully exercising his office and requalifying a contract if, independently of these charters, he detects in the practices of the platforms a bundle of clues leading him to conclude that there is a link of subordination. I would like to point out that I regret the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, during which honourable senators wished to include provisions in the bill that fall within the exclusive domain of financial laws. This is very damaging because the measures included in the text, particularly those covered by Title II, are particularly expected by the French – I am thinking, for example, of aid for carpooling and the regulation of free-floating. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, in committee we have provided some legal or drafting clarifications under Title II. I hope that it will maintain the balance resulting from the first reading. The regulation of new forms of mobility is a delicate issue – evidence of this is the evolution of the bill since it was introduced. The current text, in consultation with all stakeholders, is balanced and meets the needs of our citizens. I shall therefore present at the sitting only a few drafting or precise amendments aimed at further improving the legal quality of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u132	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u133	If there is a title that fits the title of the bill that we are considering today, it is Title III. The latter is devoted to the development of cleaner and more active mobility; It sets out guidelines in this area for the years and decades to come. Before I turn to the substance, I will allow myself a small comment on the procedure and the work we have done. As we are at the stage of re-reading, it seems to me that it is time to take stock of the debate on the bill. It is almost a tradition to consider that, within the framework of our institutions, it is the Government that is legislating – to the point that the announcement of the tabling of a bill in the Council of Ministers sometimes has more echo than the final adoption of that text by Parliament. The discussion of Title III of the Mobility Orientation Bill leads us to nuance this accepted idea. The title initially included nine articles, most of which came from the Assises de la mobilité. If these nine articles are still included in the bill that we are considering from today, a sign of the quality of the work of the Government in drafting the law, in conjunction with all the actors involved in the Assisi, Title III now contains 49 articles: that is, the extent of the work done by Parliament! Beyond the number of articles, many measures, which I shall return to, have been adopted by way of an amendment. I would like to welcome the constructive atmosphere, with both demand and confidence, which prevailed during our discussions and discussions with the Government. Élisabeth Borne, and today Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, along with their teams, have adopted an attitude of dialogue with the two assemblies, which has made it possible to move forward on many topics. If I dared to repeat the sentence of one of our most illustrious predecessors, I would say that during the discussion of the bill, we tried to "go to the ideal and understand the real." One does not go without the other, and in the course of our discussions we all felt that some proposals would be difficult to implement, because too idealistic, when others lacked ambition, given our concern not to rush the necessary changes too much. Going to the ideal and understanding the real, as Jaurès said, are two complementary requirements to accompany our society towards the overall transformation required by the ecological transition. I will start with the ideal, because this bill carries a part of it. This ideal is to tackle the great challenges facing us in this century. First, to achieve the carbon neutrality of land transport in 2050, in order to ensure France's overall carbon neutrality by that date. As transport today accounts for some 75 million tonnes of CO emissions per year, or about 30% of French emissions, we see that the target we set ourselves for 2050 also has something ideal. Secondly, we must definitely reduce pollution in the neighbourhood. As I have mentioned on several occasions in committee and at first reading, this pollution of nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and ozone affects all of us. The latest studies are alarming: they report annual deaths in France due to pollution ranging from 48,000 to 67,000, at a total collective cost of EUR 100 billion per year. In addition, our country is under European procedures for non-compliance with air quality standards. This double ideal, I think it's shared on all benches. We may have different visions of how to achieve this, but we agree on the objective. Moving towards the ideal, it also implies understanding the real. And this reality, if we had forgotten it, remembered to us last fall, during the movement of the yellow vests. I know that for having organized thirteen major debates in my constituency, an important part of which was devoted to ecological issues each time. These issues are of concern to our fellow citizens, as well as the difficulty in meeting their travel costs. Understanding the real is to know that one will not be able to change habits overnight, or to change in just a few months mobility systems and networks that have taken decades to build. It also means understanding that our businesses, in their productive activities, and our citizens, in their daily lives, may need time to adapt their habits to the new perspectives. Finally, it is to be aware that the most modest of our fellow citizens will need to be helped to move towards cleaner and more active mobility. So we need to understand the real, but not forget the ideal. How can this be achieved? By defining trajectories – because starting from the current situation is not enough, and focusing on a distant objective either. We must build together the path that will allow us to move from the current situation to the ideal that we want to see. That is precisely what Title III of the bill is devoted to. This trajectory is defined in particular in section 26 AA of the bill, which sets the goal of achieving carbon neutrality in land transport by 2050. By that date, no more ground vehicles would be required to be powered by fossil fuels. I would like to point out that, at present, sales of new vehicles in France are broken down as follows: almost 94% concern vehicles which operate entirely on diesel or petrol, 4% on hybrid vehicles, 2% on electric vehicles and a few thousandths on gas vehicles. In order to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality, we also propose to include in the law the necessary condition for its realization, namely the end of the sale of new vehicles using fossil fuels by 2040. Since these vehicles have an average lifespan of about 10 years, it would be necessary to stop selling them at the latest by 2040 so that they do not drive in 2050. By setting at 2040, in the continuity of the climate plan presented in July 2017 by Nicolas Hulot, the end of the sale of fossil-powered vehicles, we will be the first country to set such a horizon in the law. Finally, we are subject to the European emission reduction targets by 2030. From 2020 onwards, new vehicles will have to emit less than ninety-five grams of CO per kilometre as a whole, which will gradually be reduced to fifty-nine grams by 2030, which is below the current threshold for the definition of a low-emission vehicle. So this is the path that we have defined during the first reading and which I will propose to you to confirm. I would remind you that in order to ensure that it is properly followed, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Science and Technology Options, the Office for the Evaluation of Science and Technology, which involves both Houses of Parliament, will produce an evaluation every five years, which will then be debated by Parliament. To achieve these objectives, we need the full range of levers of public action. This is the subject of the 49 articles of Title III. I believe that on first reading, on all the benches, we brought our stone to this building. In fact, good ideas complement each other rather than exclude each other – especially since we are working against local pollution, against greenhouse gas emissions, that is, for our health and for the climate! I will not delete all the provisions adopted, but I would point out that there are five large blocks. The first aims to promote active mobility, first and foremost walking and cycling. We have considerably strengthened the obligations to build bicycle paths, encouraged the construction of bicycle spaces in condominiums and railway stations, facilitated the transport of bicycles on trains and buses, in order to promote intermodality. A second set aims to promote the deployment of electric, hydrogen and gas mobility. From the equipment and pre-equipment of the car parks in charging stations to the increase in the rate of refraction for connection to the electricity grid, the measures taken are still numerous and varied. Thirdly, we encourage the acquisition of low-emission vehicles by setting minimum greening requirements for captive, public and private fleets. For private fleets with more than 100 vehicles, 10% of renewals will have to be for low-emission vehicles by 2022 and 50% by 2030. This will feed the market of the occasion and make these vehicles more and more accessible to our citizens. The fourth set of measures, those aimed at encouraging our citizens to use cleaner and more active mobility. In this way, we create the sustainable mobility package, which will cover the costs of cycling and carpooling. On the other hand, advertisements for cars will have to be accompanied by a message encouraging active and shared mobility. Finally, as President of the National Air Council, I cannot forget the measures to combat local air pollution, with the creation of low-emission mobility zones and the inclusion of action plans for the reduction of air pollutant emissions in the territorial climate-air-energy plans, the CPAETs. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, Title III of the mobility policy bill is an ambitious title, which not only sets targets, but also tracks trajectories and activates multiple levers to achieve the objectives set. It is these measures that we will have to discuss in the coming days, with a view to improving them and, if necessary, adjusting them. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If I dare to use this rugby expression just a few days from the opening of the Rugby World Cup – for which I wish our national team good luck – we have no more than to transform the test. I'm counting on you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u134	Mrs Bérangère Abba, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u135	Here we are again gathered around the mobility guidance law. Our first reading of the bill and the positive work done with the rapporteur of the text in the Senate, Mr.Didier Mandelli, for the Joint Joint Committee gave us some time to hope that we could reach an agreement. We felt that the Senate had done a useful job on many points in the text, and that our colleagues in this chamber were equally committed to a positive outcome. The Joint Joint Committee has failed and, despite the regrets we all have already expressed, the constructive approach which has prevailed so far must be preserved. We have therefore endeavoured not to go back to the provisions introduced in the Senate, which seemed to enrich the text. Thus, Title IV, now Title I A, since the Senate wished to include financial programming at the beginning of the text, deals with the programming of State investments in transport systems. In its Article 1, it sets four main objectives by 2037. First of all, we want to reduce territorial inequalities by increasing the accessibility of land-locked areas and areas that are poorly connected to large cities. The aim is then to concentrate efforts on daily travel and to improve the quality of road, rail and river networks. We also want to speed up the energy transition by promoting modal rebalancing towards the least polluting transport. Finally, there is a need to improve the efficiency of freight transport by facilitating the modal shift. To achieve these four objectives, five priority investment programmes have been defined: maintenance and modernisation of existing national road, rail and river networks; the desaturation of the major railway nodes; the opening up of roads to medium-sized towns and rural areas; the development of the use of less polluting and shared mobility; Finally, support for an ambitious freight transport policy. On all these points, until the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee, fruitful exchanges with the Senate had led to strong lines of consensus. Similarly, we wanted genuine and funded programming. Therefore, our two assemblies agreed to build it on the basis of scenario 2, as set out in the January 2018 report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board. This trajectory is both ambitious and realistic. It foresees a significant increase in the expenditure of AFITF – the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – to 40% between 2014-2018 and 2019-2023, i.e. a five-year allocation of EUR 13.7 billion for the period 2019-2023, increased to EUR 14.3 billion for 2023-2027. However, concerns have emerged regarding the resources for these expenditures. Our honourable senators have therefore laid down the principle of the full allocation to AFITF of the product of the increase of the ICTPE – the domestic consumption tax on energy products – of two cents per litre of diesel for light vehicles and four cents per litre for heavy goods vehicles, an increase decided in response to the abandonment of the eco-tax The work done in the Assembly will have allowed us to go further on this issue of resources. On the proposal of your rapporteur, the National Assembly has decided to lay down the principle of the participation of air transport in the financing of the least polluting and greenhouse gas-emitting transport infrastructures, by initially allocating to AFITF the surplus revenue from the solidarity tax on air tickets, known as the "Chirac tax". This provision should make it possible to release EUR 30 to 50 million per year. It has a strong symbolic significance, since, for the first time, air transport will contribute to the development of clean and sustainable mobility. During the examination in committee and in public session, discussions were held on these issues of the contribution of the air sector, but also of road transport, to the financing of infrastructure. Expectations were heard: on 9 July 2019, following the second Ecological Defence Council, the Government announced two additional measures to finance our infrastructure. On the one hand, France will apply an eco-contribution on airline tickets for flights departing from our territory, with the exception of domestic flights from or to Corsica and overseas, and balancing links of the territory. On the other hand, as of 2020, the partial reimbursement to road hauliers of goods on the TICEP will be reduced by 2 cents per litre of diesel oil. The resources released, EUR 180 million for air transport and EUR 140 million for heavy goods vehicles, respectively, will be fully allocated to state investment in transport infrastructure. These provisions are obviously not intended to be included in the mobility policy bill because they fall within the scope of the finance bill. However, we welcome the arbitrations that our discussions will have played a major role in determining. As far as air transport taxation is concerned, we have made considerable progress during the first readings. She is called upon to continue. I recall that Article 1 F states that "the Government shall submit to Parliament, by 1 October 2019 at the latest, an information report on the levels of taxation of the air sector in France and, by comparison, in the other countries of the European Union". This document will inform EU-wide reflections and work on draft finance laws. I come to the principles that we have maintained throughout the discussion – which I welcome – in order to arrive at a programming text affirming a clear trajectory with a degree of generality sufficient to go through the years. At first reading, both in the Senate and in the Assembly, the ambitions to extend the list of IOC priority infrastructure projects to be included in the law were contained. We will continue along this path by issuing an opinion that is unfavourable to any amendment aimed at adding a particular infrastructure project to the text before you. The work of the IOC is the result of months or even years of observation of the national infrastructure network. It is up to us to maintain these balances. [[Smile]] Furthermore, we have ensured that the text strongly reaffirms that the specificities of our territories are taken into account. It does not seem necessary, however, to recall it by amendment to each article or paragraph. In addition to the provisions of Article 1a, paragraph 25 of the annexed report, introduced on the initiative of your rapporteur, emphasises that "this programming takes into account the specific issues relating to the accessibility of mountain, island, ultramarine and border areas, with particular attention to the maintenance and development of infrastructure". However, I welcome the tenacity with which some of our colleagues on all the benches have insisted on highlighting the specificities and difficulties of these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u136	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u137	We have been motivated by these same concerns regarding the revival of the territory's balance trains, in particular night trains, which are essential for the opening up of the territories furthest from the main axes, and for the reduction of the ecological footprint of mobility. A study on this subject will be submitted by the Government to Parliament by 30 June 2020. It will allow us to continue our reflection on the most effective way to effect this recovery. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, in the past, transport programming has all too often resulted in failures or abandonments. Through its pragmatism and voluntarism, this text is a major asset for the success of a mobility policy closer to the daily lives of our citizens. To submit to Parliament a programme of investment in transport infrastructure is an unprecedented and strong political act. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] After long months of work carried out with the Government's close support – I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Mrs Élisabeth Borne – after constructive discussions with the Senate, we have arrived, I believe, at a firm and balanced text, necessary and expected, which allows us, 37 years after the LOTI, the law of orientation for inland transport, to envisage the future with renewed confidence. Thank you, and I look forward to seeing you on these issues very soon in our discussions on the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u138	Mrs Zivka Park, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u139	We had the opportunity to repeat this on several occasions, during the first reading, at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee, and last week in committee: our objective, with the mobility policy bill, is to quickly reduce the territorial divide by improving the movement of the daily population, for all our fellow citizens, on all territories. Our responsibility is to move quickly and give a response that allows for the improvement of all mobilitys, both in terms of transport supply and safety. As the recent news shows, with regard to road safety – road safety, which the title of the bill I have the honour to defend in this House plans to strengthen – the figures are worrying and indicate the urgency of taking action and passing the bill. Let me remind you that the number of deaths is increasing by almost 18% for the month of August. The bill strengthens road safety by stepping up a number of measures to reduce road fatalities. It offers concrete solutions as it does for all the problems it addresses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u140	On road safety, it's a failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u141	Our fellow citizens are waiting for us at the turn, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u142	There's too many turns!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u143	Many of them feel that they live in peripheral territories cut off from metropolitan areas, de facto excluding them from employment, training and culture. In addition, there are problems of insecurity or of increasing air pollution. I remain convinced, by starting this new reading, that the mobility policy bill that the Government is submitting to our House is one of the answers to the territorial divides that undermine the cohesion of the territories and all these challenges. We are embarking on a profound transformation of mobility. The Act puts in place instruments that local and regional authorities will be able to use very quickly to better manage the mobility of their citizens. The idea of the bill is to open up and simplify the management of mobility in order to create new opportunities for users according to their territory, in line with constantly changing expectations and behaviour. The two readings of the text will have led to consensus on issues of concern to these users and of daily mobility. Title V introduces various measures covering all mobility. It deals with human mobility by enhancing mobility security and safety in collective land transport networks, and by tightening certain road safety rules. It addresses the question of the mobility of goods by land, rail, river and sea modes, dealing, on the one hand, with the improvement of the competitiveness of maritime and river freight transport, and, on the other hand, with the introduction of modernisation tools. In introduction, I recalled the need to quickly pass the bill after the CMP failed, and our responsibility in this matter, citing the example of current road safety. The safety of the French in everyday mobility is a major concern of the text. A number of advances were made in the first reading, notably through measures to strengthen the system of penalties for infringements of road safety rules. As I pointed out during the examination in committee, we could have dealt with other subjects put forward by the associations of road accidents victims, on which a number of Members gather beyond our majority. However, constitutional jurisprudence does not allow us to introduce new provisions during the second passage of a text before an assembly. However, I would like to assure you, together with Mrs Valérie Lacroute, that we will take another piece of legislation to introduce these provisions. On this subject, the news shows us that we must continue to strengthen our action. In this respect, however, we can welcome the fact that the fight against alcohol and drug use has been reaffirmed as a priority for road safety, which has led to the re-establishment of measures to combat more effectively behaviour that increases the risk of road accidents. Beyond the issue of mobility safety, Title V opens up RATP's public urban bus transport networks to competition with an important social component. This competition raises the question of a new specific legal framework, as well as the arrangements for the transfer of employment contracts from employees and the portability of certain rights deriving from the Staff Regulations. The Mobility Act seeks to establish and ensure a high level of security for travellers and to avoid the risks of fragmentation among several actors in security management. I hope that this new reading will allow us to consolidate the important progress achieved at first reading in implementing the conditions for the successful transfer in order to ensure that it takes place in the best possible conditions, and to ensure the continuity of public service for users. Among these advances is the fact that, in the event of a change of operator, the transfer to the new employer of the employees' employment contracts will be accompanied by the transfer of high-level social guarantees, but also by advances in determining the consequences of the refusal of the transfer, in the arrangements relating to the redundancy compensation paid in the event of refusal to transfer, or in the establishment of a procedure for the automatic transfer of employment contracts, in particular in the event of a change of operator, which will apply everywhere in France. In any case, the challenge is to ensure the continuity of the public service for users, whether the opening to competition takes place in 2021 in the areas of the Great Crown, or at the end of 2024 in the case of the operation of RATP networks. The opening up of transport to competition in Île-de-France involves challenges in terms of the coherence of the safety system. It is therefore important to ensure a high level of security of persons and property. Simplification measures aimed at improving the competitiveness of maritime, inland waterway and rail transport should enable players in the sector, in particular at major seaports – I welcome the parliamentary "Maritime Team" present in the Chamber – to operate within a stable legal framework, to evolve and modernise a number of measures related to maritime navigation and river navigation, in particular with regard to safety. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the other hand, the movement of goods is intensifying, and the bill promotes the use of more environmentally friendly modes of freight transport, in particular by establishing a strategy for the development of rail freight. Opening, simplifying and modernizing are the key words of Title V: more broadly, it is those who best define the spirit of the mobility orientation bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u144	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u145	What is happening today is very serious: the Government is about to ask the national representative to ratify this text in a new reading without having the necessary elements to issue an informed vote in the public interest. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] Indeed, while the discussions have focused – rightly – on electric scooters and other free-floating vehicles, but also on the investments to be made in our infrastructure, one of the articles of the draft law contains a true act of counting of all French: Article 40 ter B contemplates in complete discretion, in catimini, under the guise of a technocratic vocabulary, to transfer a still unlicensed part of our road network – from our national roads – to private operators. In this way, the Government intends to make the French suffer the same holding-up that was carried out in 2006 on motorways. They had been sold to the private sector for a bite of bread, well below their actual value, while their exploitation was just beginning to bring money back to the state. Thanks to this magnificent operation, we lose 2.5 billion euros every year, 2.5 billion which could have been used, for example, to finance 25,000 teaching posts in schools and as many nursing and nursing posts, and this every year – something to improve the lives of millions of French people in practice from the start. Someone said, "There is no magic money. But the shareholders of highway companies will tell you the opposite: they receive 2.5 billion euros a year in dividends and their profits from tolls have increased by 20% in ten years. The hundreds of yellow vests down the street this winter will appreciate the gesture! Anyone who has committed such an accounting error, so detrimental to the State, should normally be thanked and removed from office as soon as possible. Well, no: these people are still in power, or in its backstage and archanes, writing reports intended to demonstrate how urgent it is to offer on a silver platter to private companies such or such part of the heritage of all French people. When it comes to dispersing public goods, public decision-makers are always modest and seek to conclude sales in the utmost discretion. They are right, because the French do not want these privatizations that go against the general interest and fill the pockets of those who have their entrances to the Elysée. But I come back to the subject that concerns me today. In the case concerning our national roads, opacity is pushed to its climax. There is indeed a report by the General Inspectorate of Finance and the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development on the desirability of granting national roads. This report, which bears the name of its two authors, MM. Rapoport and Roche, was handed over to Ms Borne in December 2018; He's been kept a secret ever since. I have formally asked to have access to it in a letter addressed to the Secretary of State for Transport, Mr Djebbari, who has remained unanswered at this time. How can Members be asked to vote on a text without knowing its budgetary, environmental and social consequences? This opacity is a democratic scandal. It is worth gargaging you throughout the day with the word of democracy if your actions say the opposite! That is why we tabled and ask you to vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. But there is another gift that risks not reaching its destination: I am talking about Paris Airports – ADP – which brought the state more than 610 million euros in profits in 2018, and that Mr Macron wants to brade to Vinci, a group that already benefits every day from our motorways. Indeed, despite all the efforts you have made to discreetly pass this new gift, the referendum of shared initiative is indeed on track: it is now more than 720,000 French and French people who have signed the request to hold a referendum on the privatization of ADP. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR group]] As the Government prepares once again to undress the French to enrich the shareholders, it will soon be left to the citizens only the yellow vest and the referendum of shared initiative to raise the anger of a people who are being stripped of their property!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u146	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u147	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] An imbecility marteled a thousand times does not become a truth. And it's not all to say that, with privatization, the motorway companies got away with it; You would have to revise your economic lessons, my dear colleague, and study the profitability of the investments of highway companies: you would realize that their performance is far from being exorbitant,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u148	2.5 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u149	... that renationalisation would cost a fortune and help to increase the public deficit – all in order not to lead to better management, that's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u150	[[Smile]] On this point, the Secretary of State agrees with us...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u151	As for the increase in the scope of concessions, it is not a scoop: we have been talking about it for years and everyone says that this could be a good idea, since in terms of road transport it is either the user or the taxpayer who pays, and not the king of Prussia, as my grandmother said! Stop repeating these stories to scare public opinion. The Liberties and Territories Group will obviously vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. The bill under discussion is long overdue; We are not in favour of this on all points, but in several areas we really want things to move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u152	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u153	All the meetings and exchanges that we had before the summer, and then last week in committee, have shown this: we agree on one observation: that of a real fracture, with regard to mobility, between, on the one hand, metropolises and, on the other, medium-sized cities, villages and towns. On the other hand, today we have a real point of disagreement: by defending the motion to reject beforehand, you mean, my dear colleague, that it is urgent to wait; We, members of the IDU and independent group, are conversely considering the urgency of action. The text could have been adopted even faster, if the Joint Joint Committee had not failed on the issue of financing. The daily lives of our fellow citizens, it seems to me, deserve better than formal struggles and procedural motions that merely delay our debates. Their expectations are high. The consultation took place, and indeed took place. The discussions at first reading were particularly rich and contributed greatly to the improvement of the text. I am confident that the new reading will continue to contribute – quickly, now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u154	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u155	We have heard from you about the concessions and privatisation of ADP, my dear colleague. But it is now necessary to meet the expectations of the French, and to do so quickly. However, we have lost a lot of time in committee and sitting debates. I agree with my colleagues Pancher and Demilly on this point: expectations are real; it was seen during the protest movement of the yellow vests; Everyone is aware of the existence of the territorial divide. The problem of mobility must therefore be addressed in order to reduce this gap as much as possible. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, convinced of the need for the text to enter into force, will not vote on the motion to reject. We want the development of rail transport, support for alternative fuels, the deployment of bicycles and the accessibility of transport. We believe in this text, which is very much expected, I repeat, by our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u156	Bravo! Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u157	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u158	The group La République en marche is falsely against your remarks, Mr Prud'homme. Indeed, the bill was based from the outset on a citizen consultation that Members of Parliament were able to carry out in their territory, with local elected representatives, citizens, and transport users, and Minister Elizabeth Borne was very involved so that all these field proposals could be directly introduced into the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u159	What about the famous report?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u160	It was then very richly fed, throughout the parliamentary work, by the amendments of the Members, in particular the opposition. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Your motion for prior rejection is purely artificial: it is based on a political aim, that of the perpetual rejection of a text which is much expected both by local elected representatives and by citizens. This text aims at a regeneration of the networks completely new in France for the last twenty years. It contains very significant commitments, such as the ecological transition, carbon neutrality, especially of vehicles, the bike plan, which is also new, or the sustainable mobility package. Honestly, what are we waiting for to implement it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u161	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u162	It is logical that the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote the motion of rejection beforehand – a logic which is not specific to the draft law on the orientation of mobilitys, but which we have already presented, alongside the employees, during the reform of the SNCF, and demonstrated, with the employees and all the French about the law PACTE, the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises, which organizes the privatization of ADP. From SNCF to ADP, to RATP, it is indeed the same logic that is at work: that of a total demilitarisation of the State in relation to the stakes of the French movement. In this regard, you are clearly abandoning the public services and enterprises that have structured – and continue to do so, which is very happy – the territorial and social cohesion of our country. We will return to that during the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u163	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u164	I am surprised, however, at the Government's silence. A specific question is asked: Loïc Prud'homme said, there is a report, submitted in December 2018 by the General Inspectorate of Finance and the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development, on the opportunity to concede national roads; my colleague asked to know about it; he was not offered this opportunity. Does this report exist, yes or no? What's in it? Does it or does it not provide for the privatisation of national roads? These are specific questions that require equally precise answers from the Government. This report should be forwarded to national representation, even beyond the scope of the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u165	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u166	The Republican Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. We do not think it appropriate to reject the text at this stage of our lengthy debates. Of course, we do not agree on a number of points which I will mention earlier, including funding and the return to authorisation to drive at a maximum speed of 90 kilometres per hour on certain routes only. But we were able to debate at first reading, and we obtained important explanations in the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u167	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u168	I thank Mr Prud'homme for asking the question of motorways, which we have been dealing with for a few years now – I remember a work led by Jean-Paul Chanteguet, then chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, and several of his colleagues so that we can have clear ideas on the subject – and who will return without delay to the public debate. The stakes are important. Simply put, we are asked to continue examining a text which has already been very busy with us all and which must represent a turning point in mobility. Even if we do not associate ourselves with the motion, there are some preliminary questions that we have already raised and that are still waiting for an answer. I am thinking in particular of the Philizot report, which the Government wanted and welcomed, on – among many subjects – the future of small lines. And it is a pity, however, that, at a time when we are meeting here again, we still do not have this report in our hands, which should inform national representation on the issues of small lines, issues already raised by other colleagues at the first reading. Therefore, even though the Socialist and Related Group welcomes the fact that this motion has put forward the debate on mobility, it believes that it is now necessary to come to the discussion of the text and probably to review the question of funding through amendments, as Valérie Lacroute said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u169	Before hearing the speakers in the general debate, I would like to inform the Assembly that, at the request of the Government, the discussion of title I A of the bill is reserved for consideration after Title III.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u170	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u171	As the bill before us is almost the same as the one we passed last June at first reading, I could repeat the arguments I made in my explanation of vote on behalf of the Liberties and Territories Group. But while the text has changed little, the context is significantly different, as we have seen progress this summer, in our fellow citizens, in the awareness of the climatic and environmental disorders caused by human activity. This, of course, must inform our work as legislators, particularly in the field of transport. Indeed, this sector accounts for 33% of final energy consumption and, as the recent report of the High Council for Climate, it is the first emitter of greenhouse gases. I would like to point out, as it must be pointed out, that his report is quite critical of government action in this area. However, this piece of legislation, if prepared with great ambition, is not entirely up to the stakes, whether it is environmental imperatives – it is only to be seen today the controversy about SUVs, sport utility vehicles – or the daily needs for mobility, which refer to the question of the territories on the periphery, whether they are rural or close to the metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u172	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u173	The way in which French people travel to their places of work is revealing: almost 70% of them travel by private car. The situation is obviously contrasted according to the territories, but the main obstacle to an evolution remains the absence of an alternative to the automobile, a situation linked to the more or less rapid transformation of our transport system as it is currently conceived. The time being counted, it is like a race-continuation, a huge challenge for us and for all generations, especially for the young people who look at us... sometimes meducated. This lack of alternatives does not, of course, exist in the major cities, particularly in the Paris region. But it is enough to have to pile in the subway or in the RER to see that there is, again, also very far from the lipcut. The transport conditions are far from idyllic and these territories face other problems: car congestion, peaks of pollution, variable quality of the public transport offer. Our territories with various constraints therefore require appropriate responses, even if the need to move is widely shared. And I recall, I had the opportunity to say, that mobility is, of course, also a major social issue. In this great challenge of building a new project of society, indispensable not only for the French but for our planet, the question of the acceptance of the necessary efforts, therefore of governance, is obviously central since it is a huge change in the social model and the environmental model, since our consumer society can no longer continue to function as before – but it is another debate. The policy law, guided by objectives to combat the social and territorial divide while aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of transport, had to answer all these questions. So we're right here at the heart of the subject. We set out to do this during the excellent National Mobility Facilities, which, as in many consultations, was also at stake to attempt a synthesis and draw conclusions from the achievements of our work. We can see how they are included in the bill and how the text is going back to those who have been consulted. We have worked a lot, the process has been longer than expected, but we have completed it after good consultations. However, the bill as introduced in the Senate did not reflect the totality of the work of the Mobility Assembly. This is evidenced by the observations of the major professional organizations in the transport sector, which raises the question of the public decision-making process: too many measures, however essential, were decided late without a real consultation process. It's amazing in a country that has the way of concertation, where you only have that word in your mouth! Once the concertation has begun, we realize that major measures are falling... without any consultation. For example, the Government's recent announcement to reduce the TICEP exemption on heavy-duty diesel by two cents per litre has not been the subject of any prior consultation with carriers. I insist on this because we had a lot of feedback from them: they were surprised that the decision was made the same day they were summoned. This text, and the Libertés et territoires group welcomes it, was completed and enriched in the Senate after a long discussion. We regret, however, that agreement could not be reached in the Joint Joint Committee. In the end, the mobility orientation bill as we are considering it today contains significant improvements... but also several regrettable areas of shadow. Our group is convinced that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the local level must be used to reduce territorial divides and that our territories must be the driving forces behind this change. It was important, however, that those Territories should have the financial means to achieve that goal. Otherwise, it is only "words, words, words. » By reorganizing mobility skills around the inter-community-region couple, the bill, as we say, is moving in the right direction; Similarly, the desire to put an end to the white areas of mobility receives our full support. However, the question of territorial networking remains far from settled: the appointment of an organizing authority in a territory alone cannot ensure the deployment of effective mechanisms. We, the decentralizers, regret that you do not go far enough, but the question is certainly not easy because there are organizational problems to be solved in this area. The text does not present any real alternatives to self-solism for these territories: neither free-floating vehicles nor electric scooters – which were so busy at first reading – are general options everywhere. Carpooling, on the other hand, could be an adjunct solution but cannot be the only way of moving. But like you, Mr Secretary of State and colleagues of the majority, we are fully aware of the difficulty of thinking of an alternative service offer to the individual car in sparsely populated areas. I note, however, that some communities have not waited: I could cite a lot of them, including the community of Bar-le-Duc Sud Meuse, which I chaired and which has set up a car sharing service. There are therefore many possibilities in this respect, including for a small community of agglomeration. Financing experiments in this area is particularly interesting and I wanted to highlight this contribution in the continuity of the National Mobility Assemblies. I come to one of the stumbling blocks in the Joint Joint Committee: this is obviously the question of financing. On the eve of the CMP meeting, I read the Government's announcements on the introduction of an eco-contribution on air transport based on air tickets and a reduction for carriers of two cents of euros in the reimbursement of TICEP on road diesel as from 1 January 2020. These two measures are in addition to the allocation of the surplus of the Chirac tax. However, the account is still not there. This is proof of my discussions earlier with specialized journalists in the four-column room. They said to me: "We have trouble knowing how the 500 million needed will arrive and what the increase in funding will be. Minister Elizabeth Borne told us before the parliamentary holidays not to worry. It promised that the account would be there, but our group is still asking questions about the implementation of these new measures, which would constitute indescribable improvements. We need to know, Mr. Secretary of State, how we'll get there. For years, major projects have been postponed in the field of transport: we would not like that to be the case again and we will follow all this closely. Even more sensitive is the question of funding in sparsely populated areas: the mobility payment seems insufficient, as we have already said, to enable the financing of suitable solutions. The path proposed by the Senate of allocating a share of the ICTPE to the financing of mobility in sparsely populated areas could be an interesting alternative and we regret that it was rejected. Here too, the alternatives proposed by the Government have not convinced us completely: you believe, Mr. Secretary of State, that the allocation of a share of VAT in return for the abolition of the housing tax will make it possible to finance mobility competence... Let us doubt that. Scalded cat fears cold water. Indeed, this would not be a money that is either arrowed or dedicated specifically to mobility – unless you make new announcements about it – but a resource that will in any case have to be allocated to compensate for the removal of the housing tax. Moreover, given that the dynamism of VAT products is obviously dependent on economic conditions and consumption, the ability of intercommunals to provide mobility would be permanently weakened in times of recession, bearing in mind that the future taxation of intercommunalities is open to question. Such shortcomings are all the more regrettable given that the text also makes real progress and could, if it were to afford itself the means of its ambitions, initiate a real transport revolution. It includes a series of measures to accompany and encourage the emergence of new mobilitys, which is to be welcomed, and to take into account the digital and data revolution, which I welcome all the more as we see all these revolutions at work. On the latter point, the text was balanced by defining, through Articles 9 and 11, the framework for the opening up of mobility data. We will, however, remain vigilant as to the evolution of the use that could be made of it. In addition, extremely virtuous greening targets for the fleet have been set, but they can only be achieved if they are accompanied with strong determination. I am thinking in particular of the deployment of charging infrastructures for electric mobility, bearing in mind that interesting announcements have been made on this subject by the Government, including in the Assembly during the debates in committee and in public meetings. In this regard, the bill seems to meet expectations: by reducing the costs of connecting electrical charging infrastructure to the electricity grid and explicitly allowing indirect connections to the grid, as well as by extending tariff relief to charging workshops. These are positive signals sent to accelerate the complete transformation of the automotive industry. If we have to adapt mobility to technological challenges, we also have to deal with the climate emergency. On this last point, the achievement of the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement requires a complete rethinking of our transport policies in order to limit greenhouse gas emissions. To this end, our group welcomes measures such as the strengthening of low-emission areas, the creation of a sustainable mobility package – although it might have been desired to do so a little more generally – or the provisions creating a favourable framework for the development of cycling mobility. The members of the Liberties and Territories Group are convinced that the question of mobility has environmental, territorial and social dimensions, which must be understood globally and dealt with on the right scale: that of the basins of life. It is on the basis of these principles that we will propose, as we have done in committee, amendments to improve this text, Mr Secretary of State, that is to say, to improve the journeys of everyday life in order to finally make our country the one of environmental excellence. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Bérangère Abba, rapporteur, applauds]] I will conclude by really thanking you for the listening quality of your department's services. I think it is a real pleasure for people who specialise in transport to work on texts of this kind, even if we would like to see them, in some areas, even more ambitious. Anyway, I'm making an appointment for the post-debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u174	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u175	My remarks this evening will contain few new elements, except perhaps, in the introduction, a political posture to be emphasized: that of the Head of State and his majority, who, since May, want to convince the French of the increasingly sustained attention they pay to the environment and climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u176	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u177	[[Smile]] Yes, I said "more sustained"! You see that I don't show unpleasant wickedness from the start...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u178	But this will happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u179	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] It is true that the slogan that ecology must be at the heart of political action is now the leitmotif of your communication. In this and other areas, however, this communication only deceives those who wish to do so with pleasure. That's not our case. Your priority, in our view, is in no way to combat climate change. We consider, as I have briefly pointed out in my explanation of vote, that your action, from the draft railway pact to the Pact law aimed at privatizing the ADP group, is marked by a completely different line: you complete the subjection of our country to the logics of liberalism. It is this logic that – in this case in the field of mobility and travel – characterizes your laws. It tends to deprive the public power of its means of action, blows the social rights of thousands of employees in this sector, and has historically reduced our public services and enterprises. In this case, several recent testimonies mark the major political decisions you take by having these laws passed: flagship files, which have been reminded of you in committee, illustrate your action in practice. I am thinking, for example, of the difficult situation of the Perpignan-Rungis rail link. A question on our part has led you to make commitments, which, however, remain very weak, as to this connection and the 11,000 additional trucks that would circulate on the roads if it were permanently suspended and abandoned. I am also thinking of the continued inclusion of motorway bypasses as priorities in your investment programming, or the realization of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express, all major and concrete issues that mark your action. These inconsistencies, we find them in this bill: then the transportation sector accounts for almost 30% of greenhouse gas emissions – that has been said and reiterated – and that we would be entitled to expect particularly ambitious commitments, that is not the case, for lack of a red thread other than this liberal red thread and financial commitments to truly meet the challenges of daily mobility. First of all, you claim to want to offer alternative solutions to the car, including in rural areas, by entrusting new skills to the mobility organising authorities. Again, however, there is no way. Of course, some figures are mentioned, such as the EUR 120 million corresponding to a fraction of VAT which should be devoted to the exercise of this new competence. Some colleagues, however, who are far from sharing our analysis of the text, rightly explain to you that they will not do anything, since you yourself are withdrawing from this major responsibility in the eyes of the French. In this way, you place political responsibility for inaction on others. This is a logic often followed by your government. The financial programming itself was estimated by the Infrastructure Guidance Board at EUR 15 billion. The amount advanced today is EUR 13.4 billion. It is also planned to provide additional appropriations from which we do not know where it will come from, since no new revenue has so far been sent to AFITF – the French transport infrastructure financing agency. As for daily transportation, this bill shows that you prefer solutions that mainly involve the road – coach, car sharing or carpooling. Again, public transport, and especially rail passenger transport, is excluded. You are also concerned about mobility needs under the sole prism of efficiency for companies – as we said in the first reading of the text – but with a maximum of their financial contribution. Again, this is an essential marker of your bill. To counter the trend you are taking, it would of course be appropriate to shift new resources towards rail and river, and to regain control of the supply chain. The latter is now left in the hands of large groups that are free from concerns of general interest and of spatial planning, which results in many of our activity parks, i.e. our places of creation of resources and added value, being practically distant or even cut off from the service by rail or by water. This is, briefly, how economic activity is clearly disconnected from the means of its accessibility and its development in areas of wealth production. You deliberately turn your back on the objectives of the so-called LOTI law on inland transport, which is still very topical. You lose yourself in the statement of secondary objectives that have no structuring effect at the national level, or even accelerate the social and territorial decohesion of our country: disengagement of the State for the benefit of the regions, thus to the detriment of the national coherence of transport policies, growth of mobilitys based essentially on the development of carpooling, autonomous vehicles and other scooters... This is seen as a strategy of opening up new markets to the famous start-ups, turning their backs on the notion of public service. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] The logic continues to the end, with the red carpet on the platforms. This is a true anti-social legislative rider, in the burning news of the summer, which, from Deliveroo to Uber, questioned everyone. You have supposedly chosen to empower, on the basis of volunteerism, the transport sector's platforms to push them to act in the direction of the common interest: it is a real smoke shop, a parody of social dialogue! As the National Digital Council pointed out, in an open letter published on 5 September, "remuneration, working conditions or social protection must not be an element of communication of the platform social responsibility service, but must be the result of collective bargaining", which you refuse through this legislative rider. You really want, thanks to this text, to preserve the interests of the platforms by avoiding the requalification of their workers, in order to cut the grass under the foot of the courts. Beautiful sprain, again, to the prud'homal justice! We cannot, of course, subscribe to it. The same desire to ensure that juicy markets will not escape the appetites of all-haired investors justifies the opening to competition, particularly in dense areas, of the transports now provided by RATP in Île-de-France. There is little mention of this aspect of the text, but under the guise of adapting to the arrival of competition, your project is to gradually empty the RATP public establishment of its substance, since a large part of its actual activities will be transferred to subsidiaries governed by private law. When we know the balance sheet of the railway pact and its social aspects, which are in the most complete stalemate and generate major concerns among the employees to which you do not respond, we can expect results of the same kind when this regime is applied to the RATP. I would remind you that 17,000 agents are involved. The first victims will certainly be the employees of the transport sector, but also the users, who will gain nothing, because the multiplication of operators will make them lose the advantages allowed by an integrated management of the networks in terms of quality of service and regulation of intermodality. We therefore have the painful feeling that, in this text, the accessory takes precedence over the essentials. This is just our point of view. I know that, for you, the most important thing is elsewhere: in opening up all our public services and enterprises to privatisation. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LFI and SOC groups]] To do this, you are therefore going to the essential, through this and many other laws, with regard to the mobility and transport of persons and goods. Of course, we will not be able to agree with it, and we will therefore table a few amendments aimed at changing, without any other pretension, the general logic of your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u180	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u181	I've changed. I've changed in recent months, and I've changed very deeply. I've changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u182	Well, that's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u183	Yes, yes, yes, I've changed a lot! Before that, you have to admit, the planet, the climate, the life on earth, all these things, it didn't make me vibrate – much less than 5G or the digital revolution. Do we have any start-ups to replace the bees? In my presidential programme, moreover, I devote ten lines to it. Ten lines in a chapter entitled "a new growth model", ten lines stuck between "we will lower corporate tax", "we will transform the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – into a reduction of expenses", "we will remove the ISF"... That's it, my ecology! But during the holidays, I read books! And the scientists' reports! There were also, every week, these youth movements, Greta and all her friends and friends. It caught me somewhere on the level of consciousness. And the vote in the European elections, of course. It made me think about it all. There are slows, cautions, bulb torturers, to whom it takes years to think, to mature on subjects such as growth, productivism, anthropocene, animal condition... They're analyzing, they're chipping. I don't! Me, with my Formula 1 brain, it made "paf! ", right now! I've changed. All of a sudden, I've changed. At the end of August, the President of the Republic announced at the Konbini site his conversion to ecology. I rejoiced: a sudden epiphany, a revelation. Like Paul Claudel touched by the holy spirit behind a pillar of Notre-Dame-de-Paris Cathedral. Like Moses, receiving in Mount Sinai the tables of the law. Our head of state was touched by an ecological grace and I rejoiced, especially since his conversion was contagious. The Prime Minister, a civil lobbyist for Areva – there is no stupid business, everyone has to earn his bread – suddenly spoke for "smileing ecology". The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition felt growing wings. She encouraged all walkers: "Don't have shy ecology! » You therefore understand my happiness, my joy, in this parliamentary re-entry: what a delight to return to an assembly now filled with eco-friendly activists! I was going to find dry toilets near the buvette, sheep to mow the lawns of the Palais-Bourbon, MPs warmer than the climate, with pâquerettes in the hair, President Richard Ferrand as champion of the Flower Power...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u184	Is that what ecology is all about for France? What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u185	Of course, in July, we had gone a little angry because of the history of CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement. Because of you, your votes, we were going to import beef from animals fed with animal flours and doped with antibiotics, with forty-six molecules in bonus – acephate, amitraze, atrazine... An agreement with Canada, of which, as you know, the climate is the great absence. But in the summer, you've changed too. You have revised your classics – Ecology and politics by André Gorz, The conviviality of Yvan Illich, How the rich destroy Hervé Kempf's planet. You were going to come back to this deal. You were going to upset your slogans: no longer "work more to earn more to buy more to import more to export more", but "to consume less, to distribute better"; no longer your two breasts, growth and competition, which no longer give milk, but less goods and more connection. Together – all together! – we were going to fight this battle and win it. So that the planet will remain habitable for you, for me, for our children, so that the air will remain breathable, the drinking water, and that, together, we will make this old grinchy René Dumont lie, all the prophets of the collapse and all the long-haired collapsologists! I will therefore return this morning full of hope, full of trust in you and in humanity. I come to my office and my collaborator, Joseph, gives me the table of our amendments. With a lot of red! Irreceivable, inadmissible, inadmissible... Limit air flights and substitute them by train? Irreceivable! Remove the tax niche for kerosene? Irreceivable! Removing the tax niche for road transport? Irreceivable! Ending the tax exemption that benefits marine fuel? Irreceivable! Kilometric tax at borders? Irreceivable! Ban on private aviation? Irreceivable! When I saw the painting, I blushed, I bowed to his sight. What happened? Don't worry, is this a computer bug? Or a sabotage of administrators?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u186	No, the rules of the National Assembly, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u187	The ministry of the ecological and solidarity transition affirms this itself: on the CO emissions side in transport, we are far away, far from the Paris agreements. Greenhouse gases emitted by heavy goods vehicles are increasing; The greenhouse gases emitted by air traffic are increasing; and you are presenting us with a mobility policy that contains nothing, or almost anything, to reduce CO emissions? A law on transport and nothing to limit or prohibit road transit, as Switzerland did? A transport law and nothing to contain air traffic? So, what's left in your text?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u188	Nothing...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u189	Tips of things on electrical terminals, scooters and biogas; Some bits of budget that parliamentarians rip out to fund a piece of construction in their corner... Today, I heard from the platform of digital beacons, mobility data, free-floating; But nothing is planned to limit the mobility of the richest 10%, who emit eight times as much CO in our country as the poorest 10%!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u190	Mr. Mélenchon, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u191	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] Nothing, above all, that hinders the great move of the world by your friends multinationals, who walk dryers, pneumatics and T-shirts from Asia to Europe, from Poland to France. Have you not heard the voices from above, from the Most High of the Elysée? Don't be shy! Don't have complex ecology! Or – but I dare not believe – you have not changed. Only the speeches, the baratin, the same tactics always: swearing that we have changed so that, above all, nothing changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u192	Thank you and remind you that the inadmissibility of the amendments is based on Articles 40, 41 or 45 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u193	Thank you, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u194	Mr Damien Pichereau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u195	You've changed, too?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u196	[[Smile]] I'll be a little quieter, I haven't changed... We are here again in this House to discuss a text on mobility as a factor for individual emancipation, social and territorial cohesion. A text that we have voted for here by a very large majority, because it contains provisions that are at the heart of our republican promise. The reality is that we have to deal with a situation where we have become, for part of the French, a mess. More broadly, we need to bring our transport policy into line with changes in citizens' mobility needs and respond to our ecological challenges. Nearly forty years after the law of guidance for inland transport, the LOTI, it was time to change the paradigm in which the issue of transport was confined. On 1 July 2017, at the inauguration of the Bretagne-Pays de la Loire high-speed line, the President of the Republic outlined a true roadmap for agile and innovative mobility. On this occasion, he gave an unprecedented break in major projects, in order to reorient our priorities towards everyday transportation. To this end, a major reflection was initiated by the Government at the Mobility Facilities, involving all public and private actors to make mobility cleaner, more accessible for all, more efficient. At the same time, the Infrastructure Guidance Board – chaired by Philippe Duron and composed, among other things, of parliamentarians, such as the chairman of our committee, Barbara Pompili – was looking at the promises of infrastructure that had not been financed in recent years, which nevertheless increased the deficit of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, the AFITF... I would like to focus my remarks on the main issues that we have set ourselves and to which this text provides certain and effective answers. First of all, on the social issue, governance is the backbone of the text. It will be carried out throughout the country by a mobility organizing authority. This is essential, because the problems in big cities are not the same as in our countryside where, in many cases, only the car is present.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u197	That's right...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u198	Our ambition is to enable communities to commit to the mobility of their territory and to restore their capacity to act fully. We encourage them to work with companies and user associations in partner committees, because mobility in a territory is everyone's business! In this respect, several advances should be highlighted, notably on home-to-work mobility, which will be at the heart of the social dialogue. But mobility is not only used to go to work: it also allows people to leave house arrest, access care, justice, and culture. While it is obvious to most of us, it can also exclude the most fragile citizens. Exclusion, however, is not a fatality. On the economic issue, we will invest more and better. For a real multi-year visibility of this policy, the Government proposes programming that allows the maintenance, modernization and launch of major projects in phase implementation. We welcome an ambitious trajectory, with a 40 per cent increase in the budget during the quinquennium. It will be up to us to monitor its effectiveness, particularly when the next financial laws are passed. We held two trans-party meetings on this issue during the summer, and I am sure we will work seriously together this fall. Finally, with regard to the environmental issue, the text enshrines carbon neutrality by 2050 and establishes a clear path for achieving this, in particular through the cessation of the sale of fossil fuels cars by 2040. But the car will remain a means of mobility, so we have to green our park: bonus to conversion, right to take, division by two of the installation costs... Let us keep in mind that this ecological revolution must be accompanied and supported. In addition, at first reading, we reinforced the provisions on active mobility – I am thinking of reserved parking and the national cycling route scheme, which is in addition to the cycling plan presented by the Government. It is therefore a balanced text which, in view of the urgent need to respond to the social and territorial divide of the country, did not require a new reading. From a political point of view, it is nevertheless surprising to act in this way on a text so expected and also indispensable for the French on a daily basis. The text, which responds to the key issues that I have just outlined, is welcomed by all the players in mobility – elected locals, citizens. It is not I who say it, but the Odoxa-Dentsu Consulting survey of 20 June, which noted that 72% of French people were in favour of this bill. I wonder, then, what are some reasons for sweeping this text aside, even though we agree on the essentials. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] After weeks of debate in the Senate and in the National Assembly, I therefore hope that this reading will be brief, that we can implement the measures in the text as quickly as possible, that the communities seize their new prerogatives and that relations between all actors on the ground will be created. This is my wish to improve the daily lives of the French, to bring our mobility policy into the 21st century, so that everyone can agree on this new legislative framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u199	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u200	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u201	We are here again in this House to discuss the mobility policy bill in our country. Once again, because the Joint Joint Committee of 10 July failed because of a lack of agreement, particularly on the financing of this mobility. Indeed, you have not been able to convince members of the opposition on this matter. Yet this bill was not a political text! Moreover, the Republicans did not hesitate to vote for provisions which seemed to them to be in the right direction. Despite our differences of opinion, there has never been any opposition in principle; However, I am not sure that the Government and the majority were really prepared to take our opinion into account, even though this text raised many expectations. That's too bad. At this second reading, the so-called funnel rule obliges us to restrict the debate. However, I would like to take this opportunity to express to you a deep regret: that of not being able to return to your premium for illegality in transport. How can we explain to the French or foreigners in a regular situation who work in our country that a tariff reduction in transport is granted to foreigners in an irregular situation receiving state medical assistance? How do you explain that even in cases of illegality, your majority will continue to grant these privileges? Your ideological position is not audible – the President of the Republic himself would have reminded the cadres of the majority that this refusal was only a "wrong"! Let's go back to the blocking points on this mobility orientation bill. Two days before the Joint Joint Committee, the Prime Minister had stated in a letter that he would mobilize new resources to meet the commitments of the bill. But these are not new resources that we are asking you to find, but rather a smarter use of taxes already levied on households. The group Les Républicains offers you a simple and efficient solution to meet the financing of French mobility: a better arrow of the internal consumption tax on energy products, the TICEP. This tax, paid by the vast majority of taxpayers in possession of a vehicle, is expected to bring in nearly 37 billion euros in 2019. Only 1.2 billion will be directed towards AFITF, while more than 14 billion will be used to finance the state deficit! At the proposal of the Republicans and other groups on the source of funding, you retort "VAT share". Why make it complicated when you can make it simple? Beyond these financing questions, the limit to 80 km-hour on secondary roads since July 2018 still does not pass. You have given the presidents of departmental councils the power to return 90 km-hour on departmental roads, and the mayors the power to increase the speed to 90 km-hour on communal roads, while keeping the limit to 80 km-hour on national roads! What an incoherence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u202	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u203	What a scam for the French who, naively, assume that the subject is closed! Even the president of the Seine-et-Marne department, of which I am a native, claims that he cannot implement this measure because the recommendations of the National Road Safety Council are cumbersome. Moreover, can you assure us that the elected representative's responsibility will not be taken into account if he does not follow these recommendations? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, stop penalizing all motorists in rural areas and hear us instead on the prevention and control of dangerous behaviour. The associations of families of victims of fatal accidents, which I have been able to meet as part of my bill to prevent and punish road crime, are ready to do so. Let's work together. [[MM. Vincent Descoeur and Jean-Pierre Vigier applaud]] Secretary of State, the debates will again be intense. Please be aware that Members of the Republican Group will be responding to defend measures in favour of rural areas and French people for whom mobility issues are vital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u204	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u205	First of all, let me express my regret at the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, which obliges us to have the same debates. The four weeks of examination at first reading, with almost 6,000 amendments studied, had nevertheless enabled us to exchange at length on this mobility orientation bill and to arrive at a comprehensive and balanced text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u206	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u207	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u208	This regret is all the greater as the failure is the result of a disagreement not on the many measures in the text but only on claims that will fall within the scope of the finance bill. The stumbling block between the two chambers concerns, in fact, the financing of the coverage of the whole territory by the mobility organising authorities, the AOMs. The mobility payment will only be received by the AOMs organising regular transport, i.e. the very rural communities will be deprived of it. This problem of funding has been the subject of many exchanges between our two assemblies and prompted several proposals by parliamentarians during the shuttle. The Government has heard these concerns and made serious commitments in this regard, in connection with the forthcoming reform of local taxation and the draft finance law for 2020. These commitments, communicated in two letters signed by the Prime Minister and Minister Élisabeth Borne, demonstrate the Government's willingness to take into account the special situation of the small AOMs whose difficulties we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u209	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u210	These commitments were reiterated in committee by the Minister last week. To the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, we consider that they are strong enough that we can move forward and calmly prepare the issue of funding in the next finance law. Senators found these commitments insufficient even as they addressed their concerns, as they had the merit, among other things, of sanctifying the funding of AFITF. Despite all these guarantees, senators called for the continuation of article 2 bis adopted in the Senate, which provides for the allocation of a fraction of the proceeds of the ICTPE to communities of communes that organize one or more mobility services as AOM and for which the return on the mobility payment is too low. We understand the request of senators because this article can send a positive signal to communities of very rural communities. However, there is a question of its application, funding and relevance to needs. The purpose of the application is to include in an ordinary law a provision which falls within the scope of financial laws. The solution put forward by the Government, on the other hand, has the advantage of allowing communities of municipalities to benefit with certainty in 2020 from an additional long-term resource of almost 40 million euros compared to what would have been reported by the housing tax. It is regrettable to postpone even further the entry into force of this text after all the work done for many months, even though there is a strong expectation from our fellow citizens for a better organisation of daily mobility in our territory. This blockage is understood all the less as the parliamentary shuttle has made it possible to enrich and deepen the text thanks to a long joint work between the two chambers. I would like to reiterate my appreciation for the quality of the parliamentary work done on this bill, during which the House continued the work of our honourable senators by retaining a large number of their contributions to the text. I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs of the two Assemblies for their joint work, which has made it possible to find many compromises. Beyond funding, I note that we agree, Members and senators, on the mobility orientation bill. In order not to extend further the debate on a text whose main objective is to bring about solutions quickly to combat house arrest and to offer everyone a mobility solution, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has tabled very few amendments. We believe that we have been able to defend our positions at length at first reading and that it is not useful to start the same exchanges. Let us not forget that the spark that launched the movement of yellow vests has its origin in the territorial fractures that are widening, especially in the cost of transport which increases in the budget of households that have no choice but to use their vehicle. It is essential to promulgate this text as soon as possible. We must respond to the urgent appeal of our fellow citizens. In order to meet these expressed expectations, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has been keen to defend, throughout the first reading, the promotion of an intelligent energy mix that allows those dependent on the individual car, particularly in rural areas, to have access to more virtuous vehicles at a reasonable cost. We have, for example, passed an amendment to make it clear that the decarbonization of the transportation sector, which is the subject of the bill, must take into account the carbon balance produced by the fuel during its life cycle rather than just exhaust. The production of the supplied energy must be decarbonised, whether for electricity, hydrogen or bio-fuels. Indeed, an energy transition based solely on electricity will not be able to respond effectively to the fight against greenhouse gas emissions, as this technology remains expensive. Taking into account a carbon balance based on the life cycle thus has the advantage of offering vehicles powered by affordable fuels in terms of prices, which reduce our greenhouse gas emissions while maintaining a high mobility range. These benefits are particularly important in rural areas. In the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, we have also been particularly active in defending the need for modal rebalancing in favour of the less polluting modes of transport of air pollutants such as rail and inland waterways. We can therefore only welcome the investments made, during the quinquennium, in these alternatives to the road. In a completely different way, the mobility guidance law will make it possible to enhance safety in transport. I welcome the adoption of measures which I had advocated in a report which I had the honour to draw up with my colleague Michel Vialay. I am thinking in particular of the extension of the experiments of pedestrian cameras, the fight against repeat offenders or the annual public record of gender-based attacks in transport, which will have to be drawn up by transport service operators in order to finally stem these phenomena. However, I would like to take this opportunity to recall the expectations of carriers with regard to the implementation of the platform intended to allow the crossing of identity data, so as to make the addresses of fraudsters reliable. In conclusion, the text contains many provisions which should allow people with reduced mobility to have easier access to public transport. These provisions are particularly important to me since, since the beginning of my term of office, I have been fighting to speed up the accessibility of the Melun station – which you know well, Mr. Secretary of State – located in the heart of my constituency. We must develop genuine inclusive and inclusive mobility. For all these reasons, the bill meets our expectations and those of our fellow citizens in that it is embarking on a profound transformation in the service of a main objective: to improve the mobility of daily life for all French people in all territories. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the state of mind in which the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement deals with the re-reading of the mobility policy bill. We hope that it will be as fast as possible so as not to exacerbate the delay caused by the failure of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u211	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u212	I said it at first reading and I am not going to say it today: the criticism of the members of the Socialist and related group will be mostly hollow. When we are socialist, we should be a little Tartuffe, after five years of power, to blame you for not having made the great law on the mobilitys of the twenty-first century, decarbonized and reducing inequalities. We did not really do it ourselves, although we did so. However, there is nothing to prevent us from saying that the text is not up to the ambitions of climate change and the social divide in our territories. Do not make a criticism in hollow because, like Christophe Bouillon, Jean-Louis Bricout and others, I said that this text contained innovations that we supported. We can criticize its modalities but, in their minds, they participate in modernity. It would have to be in bad faith not to recognize the sum of innovations in governance, regulation, adaptation to modernity and technological challenges, to the accompaniment of new phenomena in society. We recognize that these are positive points. We humbly criticize everything that this law could and should have been, given the two years since you came to power and the few years during which we ourselves exercised it. This law could have restored its place to the State, to the public power, in the creation of the infrastructure of the twenty-first century. We have a debate on the different scenarios for investment in infrastructure of the future. The Government is aiming for scenario 2, but it lacks a few hundred million euros to achieve it. As for scenario 3, it opens up prospects for rail and river freight, and it really puts us in a decarbonised economy. In this context of the climate crisis of the 21st century, it would have been ambitious to target scenario 3 for the level of infrastructure equipment. Such a text would have called deeper into question the economic mechanisms that generate carbon pollution and the multiple traffic jams that our country suffers. It would, for example, have allowed the adoption of amendments which we have defended and which, unfortunately, have gone into the trap of inadmissibility or legislative funnel. One of them was based on a ban on the sale of a product for which there is no consideration of the cost of transportation and which obeys only an international low cost competition. Currently, traders can sell a product by charging the producer, therefore indirectly to the consumer, a transport cost completely erased. In the debate on the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and healthy, sustainable and accessible food, known as EGALIM, we defended the idea that we should take into account the real costs, whether it be the recognition of their environmental impact or the dignity of the people who work. For this text, we could have accepted the principle that no goods could be "de-transported" symbolically and monetaryally, because it is based on a lie that places us in a bad economy that destroys human and common values. Senator Olivier Jacquin had promoted another idea: to postpone carbon taxation, in terms of goods, on shippers and not on carriers, which would reflect a total paradigm shift. In this case, it would be up to the shippers to choose the most interesting assumptions. Another economic history could be written...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u213	There's no one on the bench of ministers anymore! This is disrespectful of parliamentary work and not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u214	Relying on the Bible metaphor of François Ruffin, I would say that we have become accustomed to preaching in the desert. So I continue to plead.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u215	We listen to you, but the Secretary of State is gone. That says a lot about the Government's attention! Not only is it not respectful but it is forbidden by the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u216	Pending the return of the Secretary of State, I will suspend a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u217	We're listening to you, Mr. Potier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u218	Mr Secretary of State, I said that the criticism in the middle is about the system, about the lack of ambition in terms of infrastructure for a decarbonised economy in the 21st century. It also covers the economic systems generated by the lack of account being taken of the cost of transport. Like what we did under the EGALIM Act, we could have established a truth of the costs that would reflect the real work of men and the impact of transport on the environment. The idea of bringing the carbon cost to the shipper rather than the carrier was rather interesting. It would have allowed us to start a process that could have been virtuous. It was quite revolutionary. We could have at least experimented with it. Unfortunately, for technical reasons, the proposal was dropped at second reading. At first reading, it had been rejected by the Government and the majority. We could have explored a second field, that of standards. Mr. Secretary of State, before you were appointed, we had the opportunity to discuss it on a platter. On this point, our disagreement is total, which does not prevent us from appreciating ourselves or from dialogue with respect. For my part, I consider it appropriate to mention the carbon impact of a product or service on a number of advertisements. Your opposition can be understood in terms of daily transport and the essential transport of goods, but since we are talking about superfluous consumption, responding to capricious or luxury choices, it is good to empower our fellow citizens by indicating the consequences of their act. The concept of carbon impact, which we defended with Christophe Bouillon and which could have applied to international flights to exotic destinations or to the use of luxury vehicles consuming much more than standard vehicles, seemed to us a cultural norm perfectly suited to the present time. The issue of standards also concerns the status of persons. We have a real disagreement on Article 20, which unfortunately we have not been able to express by tabling deletion amendments – I hope that others, on the left, have been able to do so and that we will have an opportunity to discuss this issue. Just as the La France insoumée group made us aware earlier of the consequences of section 40 – we will be assessing the question of the possible privatization of certain segments of the road network or motorway – we too want to raise your awareness, as honourable senators have already done, of the content of section 20. The latter permanently locks up the workers of the Uberized transport in a status of fragility. In the history of the world of work, at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, the world of day labourers and workers in a manner was revolutionized by the creation of wage-earners and the requalification of their status as wage-earners, which brought rights and duties on the part of both employers and employees. This has been a great progress, a great conquest for the world of work. Today, the liberalisation of the statutes is a regression. According to Marianne magazine, the lobby of low cost Uberized transporters has reportedly had an amendment to Article 20 to permanently lock the workers concerned in a shaded area, characterized by great insecurity and insecurity, which are neither those of the self-employed who could benefit from new protections tomorrow – this is one of the future challenges in terms of labour law – nor that of the employees. That is, at least, Marianne's assumption, and I would like to clarify the origin of this amendment. I would also like to address a question of tax justice. Finally, the doctrine that we defend, on the left, could be formulated as follows: we must protect the movement of goods, men and women when they are compulsory, which they are essential, but if they are in luxury or superfluous, they must be subject to the carbon tax. For example, we had imagined that SUV users, who can consume 30, 50 or 60% more than a regular vehicle with almost the same function, could be held accountable at the time of purchase, as part of a much more disincentive device than current systems. While the French spend almost 50 billion euros each year to buy a vehicle, we could reorient the choices of our fellow citizens massively by making the equivalent of a carbon tax on the unnecessary consumption of vehicles pay as soon as the purchase takes place. In doing so, we will avoid pollution and poverty traps. In any case, this is a proposal that we are presenting today for debate, and that we will make again during the examination of the PLF. The same reasoning applies to travel by train and plane. Personally, I had supported, at first reading, amendments by François Ruffin which do not seem so radical in view of the ecological collapse that we are witnessing. However, the Socialist and Related Group is proposing measures that may be easier to apply today from a constitutional point of view – I am thinking of re-establishing the erasure of the CTBTP and of a fallback amendment on the taxation of air tickets. Another point I care about is that of delivery mechanisms. In France, we have the chance to benefit from a universal system, managed by La Poste, of almost daily distribution of goods to all our citizens; Therefore, it seems aberrant today that private vehicles run in parallel, in a liberalised framework, which causes an overconsumption of oil that we cannot explain to our children. For example, our proposals concern the last kilometres of transport, unfair competition between aircraft and train, and the purchase of vehicles that are out of prestige and luxury standards. Without weighing on the purchasing power of our most fragile citizens and of the French as a whole, there are budgetary resources that will be used terribly well. We will be able to universalize the sustainable mobility package, make the necessary investments – with not only the €350 million planned but, I dare say, €1 billion a year for 20 years – to reach scenario 3 of our country's infrastructure level in the 21st century, and to accompany the territories. I say without violence: this government has become the specialist in local development plans without means. You create industry territories without means, you conclude green transition contracts without means and you propose that we enforce the LOM through local territories without any additional means. That's enough! [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] On the left, as social democrats, as socialists, we say that the state must be a powerful player, not only in promoting the great modernisations of the future, but also in accompanying the territories in order to reduce inequalities, adapt the ecological transition to the situation of each territory and make it acceptable and desirable to each of our fellow citizens. This could have been the beginning of the true act II of this quinquennium, which we are still waiting for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u219	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u220	We are here again to review the mobility orientation bill. This new reading is not linked to numerous and profound disagreements between the National Assembly and the Senate, on the contrary! We can all welcome the constructive work done by our two Assemblies and by our respective rapporteurs. Unfortunately, the CMP failed on the issue of AOM financing of transport services. This is indeed an essential issue: without funding, without stable and sustainable revenues for the OMAs, this bill is limited to appropriations of intent, or rather to intentions without credits. In order to meet the urgent needs for mobility and to open up our territories, it is imperative that the AOMs, whose fiscal resources are limited, can effectively and fully exercise their expertise in transport services. I would also like to point out that, among the 200 proposals of the "Rural Agenda" mission led by our colleague Daniel Labaronne, proposal No 154 involves the allocation of a share of ICTPE from the regions to rural AOMs. The Prime Minister and Minister Élisabeth Borne have made a personal commitment on this subject and have indicated that in the 2020 Finance Bill, a transfer of a portion of VAT to the intercommunal communities would be made to replace the housing tax. While the amounts pledged are difficult to verify, I trust the Government if it confirms its commitments and refines the figures presented in this new reading. We have said this on several occasions: this text clearly contains a varied set of good, sometimes technical, measures aimed in particular at solving urban mobility problems. It sets a course through the programming of transport infrastructures and allows the long-awaited regionalisation of the project company of the Seine-Nord Europe Canal. The main objective of this text is the disappearance of white areas of mobility. When we talk about white areas, I can't help thinking about mobile phone. I hope that we will be a little more effective in this area because, with regard to mobile phones and the Internet – to a lesser extent, because the departments have seized this issue – there are still so many reserves of Indians without access to mobile phones, which I have denounced for more than fifteen years. Let us hope, then, that we will be a little more effective on this matter! If the skills changes proposed in this text go in the right direction, this objective will mean allowing territories to experiment, innovate and find solutions adapted to each life pool – life pools that, for some, especially in rural areas, are somewhat frustrated by the reading of this bill that does not propose revolutionary measures to get out of their mandatory dependence on the car. This is not a free criticism in my mouth because, on the one hand, the solutions are not obvious, and on the other hand, when you settle in the middle of the countryside, you are aware that the metro, the bus line or the TGV station are not, by definition, within reach – it is too easy to criticize the counterpart of a tranquillity and a distance that was sought the day before! However, this text is important because it deals with completely related issues such as environmental emergency and infrastructure, although once again the Government's project is unclear in terms of revenue, or more precisely in terms of how to obtain revenue for all these investment projects. In addition, the text deals with subjects of particular topical importance. I am thinking, for example, of the self-service system of scooters without a home station, says free-floating. There was an urgent need to regulate this sector, which developed in a totally spontaneous and uncontrolled manner. Of course, it's trendy, simple to use, eco-friendly and it gives good sensations... but what a mess, if you pass me the expression! In the face of the explosion of these personal displacement devices, it is urgent to put order and create specific traffic rules, as anarchy now prevails on sidewalks and traffic lanes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u222	My point is valid both for these new greying gears in motion and for the stationary gears that are now littered by thousands of sidewalks, such as waste abandoned after use. That is why we will propose to restore the possibility for communities to impose financial sanctions against operators who do not comply with the rules laid down by local elected representatives. This is the first time, it seems to me, that a government has insisted so much on the return of cycling to peri-urban cities and territories. As you said, Secretary of State, it is a mode of mobility full of virtues, economical, clean and excellent for health. The countries of the North can inspire us very much. This bill is in line with the bike plan announced in the fall of 2018. I am thinking in particular of the marking of bicycles and the sustainable mobility package, which must be combined with the reimbursement of public transport costs by employers, otherwise its impact will obviously be very limited. I also welcome the compromise that has been reached, thanks in particular to the tenacity of our committee chair, Barbara Pompili.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u223	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u224	This bill is also an opportunity to endorse a strategy and programming of state investments in transportation systems for the period 2019-2037 – it is rare enough to be highlighted. Let us hope that this programming and these commitments will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u225	We'll see to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u226	Among the major infrastructure projects for our country, you would like me not to mention the Seine-Nord Europe Canal. Thus, article 36 aims to regionalize the canal project company. Large European political project with indisputable infrastructural, economic and environmental virtues, 50% financed by the European Union, this Seine-Escaut link that the UDI-I group has been defending for a very long time...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u227	Too long!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u228	...is also waiting for clarification of the method of financing by the French State. The time for debate is now over. In the Hauts-de-France, we await the excavators with an impatience that begins to reach its limits. Let us try to show our fellow citizens that Europe knows how to build, fulfil its commitments and make our people dream again! The thousands of direct and indirect jobs that this multi-annual project will create in a disadvantaged region meet all the expectations of the modern world – infrastructure links between European peoples, mass and low-polluting transport, and work for our young people. I leave my 4400-ton barge, the equivalent of 220 trucks, which will sail on the canal tomorrow, to return to the original bill. We share – how could it be otherwise? – your goal of decarbonisation of land transport by 2050. The Seine-Nord Canal will contribute greatly. To do this, you propose to ban the sale of new thermal vehicles by 2040. It remains to be specified how the procedure is to be carried out. It is clear that, on this and other issues, European harmonisation is essential, both in terms of the environment and the economy, both of which are by nature closely linked. Finally, let me go back to a few specific points already mentioned by my colleagues, starting with the limitation of speed to 80 kilometres per hour,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u229	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u230	...which my colleague Valérie Lacroute spoke about earlier. I wonder about the multiplicity, and therefore the readability of future road traffic rules, which will differ from one department to another, sometimes on the same departmental level!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u231	It's incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u232	Inconsequential!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u233	Under the current wording of the text, a departmental road could therefore have an authorized speed higher than that of a national road, which seems somewhat absurd, you will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u234	It's aberrant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u235	Another point that interests me is that I regret that biofuel is the great absence of this bill. The E 85 is now the cheapest fuel, at 60 cents per litre, about 1 euro less than other fuels, which can be up to 50 euros of savings on one full. Its good carbon balance makes it possible to reduce its CO emissions very significantly. Moreover, the production of this energy is a significant outlet for French agriculture, particularly for the sugar and starch sectors facing, as you know, major economic challenges as a result of the end of sugar quotas – it is enough to follow the horrors of the Südzucker sites in Eppeville and Cagny to convince yourself of this. Several regions of France have decided to support the conversion of petrol vehicles to bioethanol E 85 by financing the installation of approved cases, thus saving our citizens the purchase of a new car. French carmakers do not offer any flexfuel models, forcing individuals to buy this famous conversion box in order to be able to enjoy this alternative fuel, unless they buy foreign cars.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u237	Nevertheless, I welcome the comments you made on RMC yesterday morning, by which you indicated that you want to be the transport minister who will launch the biofuels sector, especially in the air. Air transport is indeed, as you said, an opportunity not to be overlooked. Let us hope that the results will be up to the stakes and that they will be much faster than for the automotive sector. The very last point I want to raise is that of noise pollution, more generally noise, which is a real scourge of public health, which has not been mentioned at all in committee. Mayors and all those responsible for maintaining calm and serenity in the communes are very often deprived in order to combat the nuisances caused by certain motor vehicles and to stop unbearable behaviour for the population. I am thinking in particular of the petarades of the horned boosters or of those motorists who think they are in a nightclub and make the whole neighborhood enjoy, at all times of the day and night, their immoderate taste for techno. We smile at it, but it is a real scourge that this disrespect of others, which generates incomprehension, resentment and even particularly violent reactions from the reptilian brain. There is an urgent need to address this problem of living together. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, this bill sets a course and seeks to find solutions to concrete problems. That is why we approach his discussion in the same constructive spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u238	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u239	More than two months after it was passed at first reading by the same assembly, we are re-reading the mobility guidance bill. More than ever before, in this chamber, we have taken the time to discuss this issue which is essential for the daily lives of the French. We can congratulate ourselves on the work done together. Ladies and gentlemen, this text is the cornerstone of a new mobility ecosystem, which aims to be more accessible, more sustainable and more innovative. But it is also a confidence pact with the territories – and I want to reassure our opposition colleagues and senators about the funding of the new skills given to communities: the review of the finance bill, in a few weeks' time, will enable them to make sure that our commitments are real. In the same way, I would like to acknowledge the important work that has been done to include in the law, for the first time in too long, clear and sincere programming of infrastructures, focusing on the needs of everyday life, the maintenance of existing networks, the opening up of rural areas. We can be proud of the work we have carried out collectively, for almost two years and the beginning of the Assises de la mobilité, in our territories, with our fellow citizens and companies, but also in this House, where we spent more than eighty hours debating. I am also pleased to see that this satisfaction is shared across the benches. The 628 amendments tabled at second reading – against 3000 a few weeks ago – prove that we have been able to find many points of consensus together. During this new reading, the Group of the Republic on the move will be committed to consolidating the progress we have made together, while preserving the balance of the text. We call for collective but above all effective work because there is an urgent need. There is an urgent need at last to organize daily travel across our living areas, to invest in the infrastructure of everyday life. There is an urgent need to massify the use of active and shared mobility, to reduce our dependence on the car. There is an urgent need to put an end to the house arrest of too many French people while reducing the ecological impact of transport. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to give every Frenchman the means of mobility. To this end, the mobility guidance bill creates new rights for everyone. I want to use this forum to highlight one particular measure: the sustainable mobility package. As you know, this is a new social achievement that we are gratifying in the law: the right for every citizen to be able to easily go to his or her place of work. That's the least I can do. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Because our commitment has come from our common will to simplify the daily lives of the French, because our mandate is nothing if we are not intimately linked to our territory and its people, our mission now is to vote on this bill, to bring to the ground the new rights that we have developed together, to finally respond to the urgency of a simpler, more sustainable and more equitable mobility for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u240	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u241	After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee this summer, we are here for the second time in this House to study the mobility guidance bill. I will not go back in detail to this failure, caused by your inability to propose full funding for the measures announced, as my colleague Valérie Lacroute has already demonstrated. I prefer to address a theme that is dear to me: the place of rurality in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u242	I mean, we're talking about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u243	This text, which was originally very technical, could have reached a consensus if you had not wanted to continue to oppose the rural territories to the metropolises when France needs both and the Government should do everything possible to accompany solidarity between the territories. I will illustrate three simple examples, starting with the ban in 2040 on the sale of thermal vehicles in France. This is a real signposting measure for the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u244	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u245	It's just communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u246	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Global warming is too important a subject to be treated by the snail. The reality is that France emits only 0.8% of greenhouse gas emissions. So it is not by being the only country in the world to ban thermal engines that we will solve the problems of the planet! We agree to promote positive solutions such as hybrid, hydrogen or electric vehicles or biofuel, but not to force the population unnecessarily. Rather than encouraging them, you deprive part of the French of the only means of transport at their disposal. In particular, those living in rural areas will be punished, where, more than elsewhere, public transport is difficult to establish. It is not the fault of the elected representatives: it is simply a problem of critical mass and technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u247	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u248	The text you are proposing to us does not provide sufficient financial guarantees to enable the EPCIs to take strong measures. It is not by blaming those who cannot afford to change vehicles that we will find a solution to the climate crisis. Not everyone lives in a capital. In the vast majority of cases, living in the countryside means having to take your car to work, go to school to get your children, go to the doctor or go buy your bread – just to live! [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The second example is, of course, the limitation of 80 kilometres per hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u249	Listen carefully!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u250	Faced with the sling of the motorists and several of our colleagues, first and foremost Vincent Descoeur, your government has agreed to reconsider its position by giving mayors the power to return to 90 km-hours on communal roads where possible and the presidents of departmental councils to take the same decision with regard to departmental roads. It will now be possible to drive 90 kilometres an hour in France except on national roads – and yet we do not know all the conditions of the reform: it is to be feared that some senior officials will take decisions difficult to implement. So much incoherence gives rise to some perplexity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u251	Yes! Look for the mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u252	We're walking on the head!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u253	What do you think the French will think of you? Once again, it is rural areas that will be hardest hit, since the limits of 80 and 90 kilometres per hour will coexist on the routes shared by two territories. Third and last example: the link established by this text between the development of the villages of France and the presence of public transport. It will no longer be possible to have constructable areas since urban sprawl is prohibited under the local planning plan until the community has implemented urban transport measures! This is a serious mistake. Your law will add an additional constraint for small municipalities and legally weaken their urban planning documents, PLU and PLU intercommunal. This text will continue to encourage our fellow citizens to live in cities rather than in the countryside, when action should have been taken against the enclaving of territories. On this point, I sincerely call on you, Mr Secretary of State, and your majority, to review your copy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is where we are at the beginning of this new reading. Despite our disappointment, we will continue to work to enrich the text and make it more beneficial for rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u254	Demago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u255	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u256	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to describe in a few words the constructive, demanding approach that has been ours since the beginning of the process, which began several months ago, and which led us to discuss the orientations of mobility, which is an essential issue for all citizens, has been said by many colleagues. It all started two years ago, with the launch at the Brongniart Palace in September 2017 of the famous National Assembly of Mobility, bringing together elected representatives from all the territories and researchers, known and recognized for their investment on the issue of transport and more widely mobility. Speaking at the opening of these foundations, sociologist Bruno Marzloff rightly pointed out that the issue of mobility to transport should not be reduced above all and called for a more comprehensive approach, integrating issues such as urban planning or work organisation. There were many working groups, workshops and contributions. When the sittings ended, we unanimously applauded the exercise and felt that there were many proposals to be transformed. To take on the image of rugby, there was enough to transform the test and, through a law, to provide us with provisions in line with the ambition of the Assises de la mobilité. Of course, we had to wait a bit. While we could have imagined starting by drawing up a vision, that of the mobility guidance law, and then accompanying it with a rail text and then a programming law, the timetable has been reversed, for reasons on which I will not come back. In any event, we have finally debated this text. From the Assizes of Mobility to the review of the project, we have consistently adopted a constructive attitude. So we participated in the meetings, and indeed, for some of us, in the working groups. We have submitted contributions. In associations of elected officials or communities, we ourselves wanted to bring our water to the mill. That is to say, we believed hard as an iron to the approach to which you invited us. This constructive attitude has been fully shared by the Infrastructure Guidance Council, whose responsibility you have entrusted to Philippe Duron, who, during the previous legislatures, was a pillar of the Socialist and related group in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u258	And in rugby, you need pillars!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u259	Exactly, and he's a southern man talking! You also wanted to involve the territories in this exercise, and to appeal to their particular understanding of infrastructure. Too often it was said that nothing had been done so far – a well-known chorus – and that 2017 had been the zero year of mobility and transport. However, by appealing to Philippe Duron, you paid tribute to the work he had done in the Mobility 21 Committee. In this context, he had already conducted a sorting exercise. Indeed, the national land infrastructure scheme had been an opportunity to identify many infrastructures, not all of which could be financed. Philippe Duron was very talented in this exercise, so that road, rail or river infrastructure would be supported financially, in response to the needs expressed throughout the country. Agree, there is no new infrastructure today. Rather, a sorting was carried out, with the aim of achieving a form of economy. I am surprised to hear that we will no longer talk about large infrastructures, but only about everyday transport. A detailed examination of the map and the list of infrastructure requirements, contained in the attached report resulting from the work of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, shows, on the contrary, that these are high-speed lines and motorway axes. In other words, these are little or no of the already known infrastructures, among which a sorting has simply been carried out. If we had wanted to talk about daily transport, we should have concentrated our efforts on small lines, especially rail lines, which could create alternative solutions for all those who have no choice but to use their cars. This issue is essential if the issue of small lines is to be addressed. Admittedly, it is customary, under such circumstances, to make a speech about the inheritance left by others – it is good war. However, let us be careful about this. Let us also be careful about the financing of AFITF, of which I would remind you that Philippe Duron was the president. Between 2012 and 2017, AFITF's budget was abounded. I am not sure that it will be the same between 2017 and 2022, to see the measured enthusiasm you show on this subject. In addition to a constructive state of mind, we have been driven by three requirements. The first was the method of implementing our ambition. You have rightly set out an ambition to decarbonize transport and have announced the end of thermal engines. However, don't confuse the stock with the flow. Knowing that the French fleet has less than 2% electric cars, we have a long way to go. The objective of decarbonisation of land transport requires drawing a path, but also determining a method. That was the subject of the amendments that we tabled. The imposition of a ban on thermal vehicles by 2040 makes it more difficult to reach this heading. Indeed, we are starting from a fleet of 40 million vehicles, of which only 2% are electric. Suffice to say that the slope is quite steep. Our second requirement was for air transportation. At the beginning of the discussion of the text, a few months ago, it seemed to be considered that the aircraft did not matter. Fortunately, thanks to the presence of elected officials in contrasting positions, this subject was properly dealt with. Our rapporteur, Bérangère Abba, has tabled a welcome amendment on the solidarity tax on airline tickets, known as the Chirac tax. Similarly, after the vote on the text at first reading, Mrs Borne took up one of our proposals for an eco-contribution for air transport, which does not affect territorial continuity and takes account of air transport from France. Far from being purely symbolic, this issue is very important. In the early days of the "yellow vests" movement, while the grievances related to carbon taxation, many did not understand that the carbon tax money was not being used to promote the ecological transition. More than that, many felt that there was a double standard between car users and air transport users, who were exempt from carbon taxation. So in this matter, you have chosen the right path. However, more needs to be done. Indeed, the taxes that you propose have a "pigouvian" effect – from the name of the economist to whom they owe their name, Arthur Cecil Pigou – that is, they target behaviors. However, in Sweden, where such taxes are implemented, there are citizens who give up the plane. The tax then does not earn more money or even leads to the collection of less money. Our third requirement was funding. I will not go back to that of AFITF: this has been discussed in this House, and proposals will be made during the debate. I will focus on the funding of communities that will take on mobility skills. A fairly strong expectation is expressed in this matter. These communities have the will to engage in the process, recognizing their interest in trusting the territories concerned and using all means at their disposal. However, this should not result in a transfer of competence without a transfer of responsibility. Let us reassure the elected representatives and prove to them that they will be able to engage in the dynamic and work towards the elimination of white areas of mobility by receiving funding. [[Applause on the SOC benches. - Mr. Jean-Charles Colas-Roy and Mr. Jean-Marc Zulesi also applaud]] That is the state of mind in which we will focus on further improving the text until the end of its consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u260	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u261	Thirty minutes! This is the time allocated to the fifteen non-attached Members to defend their amendments and to speak on an essential subject: mobility. I don't want to say anything! So I'll go straight to the point,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u262	Like us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u263	...and will tell you that I agree with Minister Elizabeth Borne. So I'm starting to do pedagogy too! I agreed with Élisabeth Borne when she observed, at first reading, that mobility was broken in France, and that the French were the first victims. On the other hand, I do not hide my astonishment at the minister's assertion that this breakdown is not the result of public inaction. For inaction, as regards the Montpellier-Béziers-Perpignan high-speed line, to name but a few, there are! Of course, the minister confirmed to us this summer that the state would continue the acquisitions of the high-speed line for an amount of €2.5 million. I welcome this effort, although it remains symbolic compared to the 5.5 billion required for the entire project. For the past two years, I have been stuttering the absolute need to tackle this issue, in order to hang up cars with the 21st century. In our case, the high-speed line would mean that there would be fewer cars and fewer trucks on the roads, and therefore less CO emissions. Every day, no less than 13400 trucks pass the toll barrier between Spain and France. This argument should affect you, Minister! I also propose, in one of my amendments, that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector should be enshrined in the general principles of the mobility plan. However, we are still behind schedule, since work is expected to begin only between 2028 and 2032 for the Montpellier-Béziers section, and between 2033 and 2037 for the Béziers-Perpignan section. Suffice it to say that we will have to wait for the Greek calends for the great connection between the Iberian peninsula on the Mediterranean side, France and the north of Europe! The development of our regions in terms of mobility is crucial. We need precise diagnosis and clear objectives so that no part of our territory is left behind, far from an employment pool, a motorway or a station served by a high-speed line. If the crisis of the "yellow vests" has disappeared from the television screens, it is still palpable in our home. This crisis must be addressed by proximity. This is not invented or improvised. The state must therefore work hand in hand with the communes, which is in line with the "Commitment and proximity" bill that we will be discussing shortly, and which aims to grant more local freedoms to act as close as possible to the ground. Proximity is, in particular, a response to the concrete problems of the French who want to travel to work. Proximity does not, under the guise of ecology, mean favouring the French who will be able to carpool or who will have the means to buy a car with very low CO emissions, to the detriment of those who will remain on the side of the road with their diesel vehicle. Traffic routes reserved for certain categories of users may be a good idea in the Paris region or in metropolitan areas, but they are not necessarily adapted to daily mobility in rural areas. Proximity is also not a matter of offering the same modes of transport to all without concern for their integration or their traffic on the carriageways. I am thinking of electrical equipment without signs – scooters, gyropods and other overboards – whose drivers navigate in a real blur in terms of civil liability. The blurry also prevails when all these devices are housed on the same sign, while they are eminently different. I am thinking here of all-terrain scooters, which are subject to the same rules as urban scooters when they follow very distinct problems. A detail, will you tell me? No, because for companies that develop offers of tourist circuits using these off-road scooters, inappropriate legislation could undermine the very viability of their business. I have tens of proposals and remarks like these. Unfortunately, the time you have given us will lead you to legislate alone. Think I'm sorry. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u264	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u265	I will be able to vote for this text on the basis of the favourable measures provided for in it, because there are provisions which make it possible to make a slight improvement in the current situation, even if not everyone will benefit from it. However, I do not see this as an orientation bill, but as an update after forty years of insurrection. Of course, we are leaving very far but this minimalist text, which shows a lack of ambition and confidence in the territories, will not achieve the objectives set out in the road map adopted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. As a reminder, the first objective was to respond to the "lack of solutions in many territories, which has a sense of house arrest." I come from a peri-urban and rural riding in the south of Toulouse. The territorial divide is a reality. What is foreseen in this text to facilitate the mobility of small people in these territories, yellow vests or not? Nothing, or so little, apart from a few zealous twists around the carpool. The price of fuel, the traffic jams, the missed opportunities to get a job will remain their daily life. The new mobility-organising authorities will be careful to ensure the existence of multimodal transport information services, what will happen if these transports do not exist or are poorly organised? Who's organizing? With what means? The situation is still so blurry. The second objective related to "the environmental and climate emergency, which calls for a change in our behaviour." But two things one: either there is an urgency and we need to change our behaviour, or this objective is purely a matter of display. Therefore, if there is an urgent need, the sustainable mobility package must be mandatory for businesses. Incentive, this measure is certainly positive...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u266	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u267	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u268	...and I am pleased that it concerns the private sector as well as the public service, but cultural change requires everyone to get on with it! The response to the climate emergency is systemic. By not forcing economic actors to play the game, you risk blocking the right answers that may arise from the system! This is evidenced by the chill with which you welcome the proposal to limit air travel when trains can reasonably replace it. You replied to Mr Ruffin that this measure would be contrary to the Constitution. The third objective was to overcome "the stalemate in a large project-oriented infrastructure policy that has not been funded for decades". I am well placed to talk about it: thirty years ago the promise to connect Paris to Toulouse by TGV was not kept! And the same applies to the Montpellier-Perpignan line! How can we refuse this indispensable spatial planning of metropolitan France? Damn it, look at a map! Geographer Jean-François Gravier analysed, in his 1947 book, Paris and the French desert, how Parisian macrocephaly could harm the rest of the territory. Seventy years later, we're still there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u269	What about Paris-Bordeaux? What about Paris-Strasbourg? What about Paris-Marseille?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u270	Always Paris, indeed! Bordeaux-Toulouse: no! At the most, this bill of guidance gives its lip service to Occitanie for herself to find the necessary funding for its new lines. You are great lords! And that time lost again... As for the last objective that you promised to achieve, that of a "revolution of innovation and practices, which is a formidable opportunity", I am in the throes of it. The autonomous vehicle – the one without a driver – would be the miracle solution! But we don't care whether the vehicles are autonomous or not! It's people who need to be in their movements! And it is for this purpose that you are about to miss three steps. The first is the bicycle, the individual solution – what is more autonomous than this means of transport? Will you keep the budget promises of the bike plan? Nothing is clear in this text. Rendez-vous is taken for the battles that will constitute the review of the finance bills for the next seven years! The second is that of the best collective solution, the train. Where's the train plan? Night train, train that takes bicycles, trains for small villages, train that goes fast, train in good condition, train on time, train rather than plane, train that puts the trucks on the rails rather than on the roads and – since you seem addicted to innovation – Hyperloop train that would connect Paris to Toulouse in fifty minutes! Why not rethink an industrial train industry? I will conclude by the essential: your lack of ambition to find solutions to the mobility problems, of which you have not become aware, that people with disabilities encounter in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u271	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u272	A debate on mobility cannot be tackled without raising the problem of the unequal treatment of rural areas on the one hand, and large metropolitan groups on the other. I will not nail to the pilori the metropolises and agglomerations which have their usefulness, if only by being sources of economic dynamism. I just want to point out one reality that we face every day on the ground: the unbearable disproportion between the resources allocated to our fellow citizens in urban and rural areas. Beyond the emblematic case of city politics, which has often led to billions of people pouring into neighbourhoods without this manna allowing them to develop, the hope of mobility is often revealed as a pure chimera to those who travel our towns and villages. How can mobility be made a reality for those who live in an area where the small SNCF line, for lack of profitability, has just been removed? This debate may be difficult to understand for some underground metropolitan elected officials, but it is a daily reality for our compatriots living in remote areas. These territorial divides, which do so much harm to our national cohesion by unjustly digging the inequalities between the French according to their place of residence, will not solve with blows beautiful and peremptory declarations to which we are unfortunately accustomed. The Government's work in this and many other areas is not up to the real challenges. Above all, the tools to solve these problems are not retained. Let us take the goal of decarbonisation by 2050 and of stopping the sale of fossil energy vehicles by 2040. In addition to the fact that a policy of tax aid has largely encouraged the French, for many years, to favour diesel vehicles which are now banned, the cessation of the sale of this type of vehicle must be part of a global logic for the effective conversion of our fleet, particularly towards hydrogen, which is far from being acquired. The €100 million plan announced by the ephemeral minister of the ecological and solidarity transition Nicolas Hulot was obviously not at the level of China, which plans to invest nearly $8 billion in ten years or, closer to home, Germany, which decides a €250 million plan, accompanied by an annual investment of €25 million. In this area too, nothing prevents you from being ambitious. It seems to me difficult to explain to the inhabitants of my constituency, whose purchasing power has been further weakened in recent months, that they will either have to do without their cars or invest several thousand euros in order to meet the new ecological standards. I already hear some bragging about the merits of the electric car, but it is obvious that this means of locomotion is not as environmentally friendly as it is claimed, if only because of the generation of electricity which sometimes originates from fossil fuels. In addition, the production and recycling of batteries raises many questions, not to mention the consequences for the environment, which are far from neutral. Bicycles can be an interesting means of transport but, however beneficial they may be, they cannot replace cars under any circumstances. Ecology must be at the heart of our public policies. This is a strong demand from our fellow citizens, but it must cease to be punitive and ideological. The urgency, which I had already raised at first reading, is to open up our rural areas. How can we reinvigorate these territories if we agree to let the public services disappear one after the other? We must break this vicious circle as soon as possible: reduction of means of transport, disappearance of public services, medical desertification. The provision of services cannot be fully digital as it tends to become more widespread. We therefore invite you to learn from the past few months of tension. The French sent you clear messages: fairer taxation, better access to public services of the State and consideration of territorial specificities. While this bill includes some improvements to the margin, it will not provide a lasting solution to the issues raised. We will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u273	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u274	Reducing territorial inequalities, improving daily travel opportunities and accelerating the energy transition must be a priority for any public transport policy. However, these broad objectives are only embodied in this bill by means of too vague measures, with uncertain financing when they are not polluted by the suspicion of a desire to be forced into the transport sector. The National Assembly has been alerting successive governments for many years to the territorial divide between major cities on the one hand and medium towns and rural areas on the other. The metropolises, which are made up of public money, benefit from a wide range of public services and modern and varied transport solutions. On the contrary, peripheral and rural areas are increasingly landlocked, rightly creating the feeling of being left behind among the inhabitants. Is it acceptable that after 8 p.m., Denain, the main city in my constituency, is inaccessible by train while the Lille metropolis is only about 50 kilometres away? As long as the logic of concentration of the star transport networks around the metropolises is not broken, the phenomenon of metropolization, which excludes many increasingly landlocked cities, will be encouraged. That is why we have proposed, by way of an amendment, a new spider web organisation, which favours the connection between medium-sized cities and territories poor in public services. In my constituency, despite the constant increase in the number of users, several nearby stations see their operation decline when it is not decided their closure outright. Users find themselves obliged to make their daily journey by car, or even to move to keep their jobs or get one. For example, one in ten French citizens said that they had had to give up employment or training because of transport problems. That is why we have proposed that the continued operation of small railway lines and nearby stations should be included as a major objective of this mobility guidance law. The acceleration of the energy transition is commendable. In the long term, the release of diesel and heat is a common sense objective. But it is not by introducing a punitive ecology that punishes and leaves aside the most fragile, who cannot afford to buy a clean vehicle of more than 35,000 euros, that the energy transition will be carried out successfully – Ludovic Pajot said so very well. The ban on all thermal vehicles by 2040 makes no sense if, in parallel, the amount of the breakage premium is reduced. Research and promotion of alternative energies remain largely incomplete. That is why we have long been proposing a vast hydrogen plan that would allow France to fill its gap in this area. Other countries are pursuing a policy of deepening research on this energy for the future, but you have chosen, on the contrary, to reduce the available funds last year. This mobility-oriented bill is also, unfortunately, tainted by the suspicion of forced uberization. After ambulances and taxis, the Government is now attacking auto-schools. Smaller schools, which sometimes represent one of the last local shops in some small towns, are asked to disappear in front of internet platforms that will be in a quasi-monopoly situation and of which nothing – on the contrary! – ensures that they will offer a better quality service at a more affordable price than the small traditional school that has gignon on the street. Once again, this Government proves its total disconnection with the daily life of the French by pursuing the transport policy carried out over the past thirty years: privatization and widespread uberization. At second reading, our concerns persist and get worse. This text has laudable objectives but does not allow for an ambitious ecological transition. On the contrary, it is taking a forced step towards the digitization and uberization of the economy, of our entire society. In the long run, but this may be your will, you will have transformed our country into a huge shopping centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u275	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u276	I will give a few quick answers to these various interventions. They revealed points of agreement, differences and some frank disagreements. First of all, Mr Potier referred to a law without means. However, I would like to point out that this text brings budgetary programming to EUR 13.4 billion for the entire quinquennium. This represents an increase of 40 per cent in investments in daily transport, i.e. in networks, which are in a known state of deterioration, as well as in the opening up of rural areas, which is a highly topical issue in many constituencies. I can all the less allow this remark to pass because we have known in the past programming laws that were not actually funded and because Mrs Borne has made significant efforts to ensure that this law is funded throughout the entire budget period. I shall then make this brief remark to Mrs Lacroute, who proposed using the ICTPE to finance the mobility expenditure of local and regional authorities: since the base you propose is narrower than that of the part of VAT provided for, this change would result, at a constant rate of levy, in a reduction in the resources of local and regional authorities. This would run counter to the objective of your proposal. I would also like to mention two points concerning rail transport. First, Mr. Bouillon quoted the mission on the small lines that I had called for when I was the bill's rapporteur for a new railway pact. Mr Philizot's report, which is currently being finalized, will consist of two parts: the first part, an overview of the state of the infrastructure line by line of the cost of the sustainability work, will be made public at the end of September or the beginning of October. Secondly, I will refer to a topical point which will put Mr Wulfranc's inquiry into the Perpignan-Rungis line in perspective. This seasonal train ceased to operate on 15 July and traditionally resumed its service at the beginning of November. For some time, it has been true that this train has not had enough cargo on board. At the invitation of the Occitanie region, Ms Borne therefore gathered around the table the shippers and the markets of Rungis and Perpignan, to ensure that this train again reached an economic balance. We both agree on this point: rail freight must regain its relevance. Thanks to the combined efforts of the various partners, we are confident that the Perpignan-Paris train will return to operation from 28 October next. Finally, Mr Demilly called for an ecological transition from reality and referred to the idea of a sustainable fuel chain in aviation. This trail seems quite practical to me. We have an excellent aeronautics industry with world-class manufacturers and operators. We have the necessary technologies, which are relatively simple, such as waste oils or sugar products. In order for this idea to materialize in front of the French, it is absolutely necessary to shorten the time needed to form these channels. In this way, we will demonstrate that the ecological transition can occur, including in the air sector, which has recently been pointed out in several ways. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That's what I wanted to tell you in a few words. I will not start the debate on the speed limit at 80 km/h because I will probably have an opportunity to speak at length on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u277	Yes, we'll give it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u278	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill. I should like to recall that, at the request of the Government, the discussion of Title I A is reserved. Therefore, we are looking at Title I.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u279	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u280	Like all of you here, this summer I had many exchanges about mobility, which is a real subject of everyday life. What do the actors in the field tell us? That this bill is interesting and that it is a good toolbox. They wonder, however, about the means, for that is where it hurts. You will reply to me, Mr Secretary of State, that the first reading of the text has allowed a balance of revenue from ICTPE to be allocated to the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France and that the methods of financing this text are found in the next finance bill. But all this is nothing but bla-bla for the Ardéchois when we know that, since 2012, fourteen dangerous points have been identified by the DREAL – Regional Directorate of the Environment, Planning and Housing – on the national road 102, without these reports being followed by any political initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u281	Like many times!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u282	As I recall, this is the only national road in a department that has no motorways or passenger trains. Last week, a man lost his life at the crossroads of La Fayette, halfway between Lesperon and Coucouron. The state must take responsibility and secure the RN102: there is an urgent need, Secretary of State! As far as the local authorities organising mobility are concerned, I clearly ask the question: what new means will be allocated to them to organise a shared and intermodal transport offer in sparsely populated areas? [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why we are defending the idea of allocating a fraction of ICTPE's revenue to the financing of new mobility services by local communities. I invite you to examine it carefully; It is better than feeding the general budget of the State without end, and it provides a concrete response to the many voices that, like me, regret that such a small share of fuel taxes is being allocated to the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u283	I have before me five amendments, Nos 305, 9, 36, 261 and 306, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 9, 36 and 261 are identical. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 305.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u284	I would like to draw attention here to the specificities of mountain areas and areas of rural regeneration in terms of mobility. The offer of mobility is necessarily more difficult to organize in these sparsely populated areas which combine handicaps in terms of enclave, sinuosity and altitude – you will know what I am talking about, Secretary of State, if you ever experience burle on the mountain ardéchoise. We therefore call for the ZRRs and mountain areas to be given the highest priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u285	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u286	Following on from what Mr Brun said at the moment, this amendment aims to include the importance of the opening up of mountain ranges as one of the objectives of infrastructure programming, since these are of crucial importance in this area. It also adds an objective of improving daily mobility within the massifs through the fluidisation of road traffic, particularly in cross-border territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u287	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u288	We have already discussed these amendments at length in committee, which is why I will present only this one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u289	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u290	This is a way of welcoming the Secretary of State, since I had initially defended this amendment before Mrs Borne. Like my two colleagues, I would like to point out that mobility is a particularly sensitive issue in these territories; Crossing a collar or spanning the throats is both more complicated and more expensive. The question of access to these massifs and the difficulties that may be encountered by those who have chosen to live in them deserves such a specificity to be included in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u291	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 261.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u292	This amendment, proposed by my colleague Martial Saddier, is identical to those just defended. It aims to include among the objectives of infrastructure programming the importance of the opening up of mountain massifs, whose particularities, particularly in cross-border territories, deserve this mention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u293	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 306.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u294	This drafting amendment provides for the strengthening of Article 1er(5) by focusing on the concepts of daily mobility and fluidity of road traffic, particularly in mountain massifs and island territories. [[Smile]] I will illustrate my remarks with a quick example of land: the Ardèche territories have many valleys, so many bridges. I personally interviewed the DREAL of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region recently; It must conduct a diagnosis of the works, including bridges, on certain routes, especially on the RN102, which will soon have no secrets for you, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u295	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u296	This debate has already taken place at first reading, where it lasted for some time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u297	Exciting debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u298	My answer will therefore be redundant with that which I first brought: if we hear your remarks, we consider these amendments to be all satisfactory. In the original bill, already, the proposed text for article L. 1111-3 of the Transport Code required that the issues of land-use planning and land-use planning be taken into account in the planning of infrastructure. At first reading, however, the Senate added an explicit mention of mountain massifs and island territories, which were already covered by the concept of de-enclavement. The Assembly has retained this wording. Moreover, as I have already said in committee, if I understand the problems facing the territories concerned, extending the list of areas to be cleared could, a contrario, lead to forgetting those which would not be included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u299	It's more complicated than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u300	For example, why are most of the amendments tabled referring only to road transport as a means of unhindering? However, there are other forms of mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u301	You can always propose a subamendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u302	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice. At first reading, Parliament took account of the needs of mountain massifs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u304	I understand your willingness to insist on these specificities, and I remember that we had this debate in committee at first reading. These amendments seem to me to be satisfied by paragraph 5 of Article 1e r, which states that "in the planning of infrastructure, the issues of de-enclavement, in particular mountain massifs, are taken into account". In addition, an amendment adopted at the initiative of Berengère Abba takes up this formulation at the end of the section on investment programming. Unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u305	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u306	I wanted to make this point useful to the rapporteur: when you live in a department that does not have a passenger train, an airport, a waterway or a motorway...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u307	That's a lot for one department!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u308	... you will understand that one focuses on the road issue, and in particular on the only existing national road, the backbone that connects the whole Southern Ardèche and the mountain ardéchois to the Rhône valley on one side, to the A75 and to the Central Massif on the other. Of course, we would like to be able to rely on other modes of transport. But at home, the car is the number one tool of mobility, even if it is called to be shared and decarbonized. Our amendments only reflect this reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u309	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 582 and 633. Amendment No 582 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 633.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u310	The aim of this amendment is to introduce, in addition to a specific mention relating to the island territories, a formula expressing the particularity of the medium-mountain and rural areas. If we consider that insularity justifies the introduction of specific provisions, it also seems essential to us that the particularities of medium-mountain territories – not always identical to those of mountain territories stricto sensu – and rural territories be explicitly mentioned in the law. Indeed, these territories bring together about 15 million French – one sixth of the total population. If we want these territories to remain inhabited, the infrastructure must be there. It is on this point that I wish to conclude: it is not only about mobility but also about our country's ability to continue to develop its territories and maintain its populations. We would therefore like to see these two references in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u312	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u314	Unfavorable opinion, with the same argument as for the previous amendment, finally very close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u315	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u316	Issues related to the school map must also be taken into account in infrastructure programming. The daily bus trips experienced by hundreds of thousands of students require major improvements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u318	This amendment has already been rejected at first reading. It is the organisation of school transport services, rather than the general planning of infrastructure, that must take into account the school map. For this reason, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn or give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u320	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u321	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u322	The school map also gives rise to special adjustments, in particular to restore the balance between some depopulated colleges and others better equipped. From the point of view of spatial planning, infrastructure must take this into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u323	That would be a step forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u324	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u325	This amendment tabled by my colleague, Vainqueur-Christophe, aims to make territorial continuity one of the challenges of infrastructure programming. Such a reference would not be superfate, since it would have effects on air routes in particular. The amendment was rejected at first reading. If my colleague would like to insist, it is because we need this concept in order to carry out policies adapted to island specificities. The notion of territorial continuity speaks to millions of French; It would therefore be a shame if it were not included in the bill even though strong objectives were to be included in the bill from the outset.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u327	Mr. Bouillon, there is a misunderstanding about this: the principle of territorial continuity is already enshrined in our law, and the bill does not call it into question in any way. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. We therefore call for its withdrawal, failing which the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u328	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u329	This amendment seems to me superfétoire because the provisions you refer to are already included in the transport code. Your amendment is therefore, on an ongoing basis, satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u330	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 99 and 193. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u331	The previous amendment referred to mountain areas, which proposes to identify more widely the rural areas far from the major cities and hence the large so-called modern infrastructures. The principle is to include in the law that these areas, which already suffer from handicaps, could be given priority in the creation of new infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u332	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 193.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u333	This amendment is identical to the previous one. It aims to give priority to rural and mountain areas in terms of investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u334	It's said once and for all! There is no point in repeating it every time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u336	I will repeat what was said in committee at first reading and again at second reading. Your concern is entirely justified, but it is satisfied with the wording of paragraphs 5 and 6 of article 1. Paragraph 5 states that infrastructure programming must take into account the issues of unhinderedness for all territories. Paragraph 6 provides that "infrastructure programming and the deployment of mobility services shall ensure the networking of low-density territories". This therefore concerns the rural or remote mountain areas mentioned in your amendment. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u338	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u339	Amendment No 256 by Mr Martial Saddier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u340	Unfavorable opinion as this amendment is satisfied by Article 1(5).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u342	The same view was expressed: paragraph 5 referred to cross-border issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u343	Amendment No 258 by Mr Martial Saddier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u344	Amendment No 260 by Mr Martial Saddier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u345	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 37, 79, 152 and 561 which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 79, 152 and 561 are identical. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u346	This is an amendment aimed at laying down the principle that a departmental capital should not be located more than 50 kilometres or 45 minutes by car from a motorway or a TGV station. In the past, such a principle had been reflected in some laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u347	For the postal presence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u348	We could say that these are only good intentions, except that we must send signals to the territories concerned. I take the case of the department that I know best, the capital, Aurillac, does not meet these criteria since the city is one hour away fifteen from the nearest motorway and the first TGV station encountered on the journey leading to Paris – for example via Limoges – is the railway station of Lyon! In other words, no TGV station is accessible to the capital. Hence the idea of displaying an ambitious objective, at a time when, as several rapporteurs have said, we want to send messages to people in rural areas who are concerned about the treatment given to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u349	Aurillac, Aubenas, same fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u350	Amendment No 79 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine is being defended. The same applies to Amendment No 152 by Mr Jean-Yves Bony. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 561.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u351	The case of Cantal has been mentioned, I could talk at length about that of Jura, where cities like Saint-Claude, Morez or Champagnole – living pools but also economic, industrial – are isolated, absolutely far from everything. This electoral district does not have any motorway – the nearest one hour from Saint-Claude – nor any railway station, nor any airport, of course. Even the local hospital has just closed several services! What we would like you to understand is that you have raised hope with this bill, but in reality nothing will change tomorrow. You miss a real issue of land use planning, and miss an opportunity to focus attention on highly landlocked and rural areas and to tell their people that there are prospects and that we are here to meet their needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u352	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u353	We will return once again to a discussion that we have already had. Of course, we understand your concern. Many other territories are in the same situation as yours. But if we have criticized senators for the adoption of this amendment at first reading, it is because it is based on a desire to apply the same principle mechanically to all territories, at the risk of undermining the credibility of the law; Indeed, what is possible in some territories is not necessarily possible in others. Moreover, such a provision is contrary to the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities – since it will be up to local and regional authorities to organise mobility in their territories according to the framework laid down by law. Finally, it is in line with a policy that has been in place for more than thirty years, that of all-TGV, which we want to put an end to. The TGV, yes, but where it's useful. I therefore ask that these amendments be withdrawn, failing which the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u354	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u355	Same opinion. The proposed wording tends to erase certain geographical and sociological dimensions. Because of an overly mechanical application, it seems to me inappropriate. But the real guarantee available to the territories is this bill, which provides for the financing of infrastructure to the tune of 13.4 billion euros, or 40 % more for daily transport, which includes the maintenance of networks – as you know, old and sometimes very degraded – and a plan to de-enclave rural areas. This is a concrete response to the needs of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u356	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u357	What I just heard leaves me pantoise. The strategy is no longer based on all-GMT, but rather on the development of existing lines. However, when the last train line was closed by SNCF, I do not see how an improvement would be possible! Many territories, including Saint-Claude, suffer from such a handicap. The rapporteur claims that demanding strict application of the same principle in all territories would undermine the credibility of the law. But we do not ask for anything like this; We simply want to make it possible to respond to specific situations. For the tragedy here is that we have the feeling that nothing will change, that your law will not bring any improvement. That's right, disability. But you don't want to hear it because you don't know these territories, totally abandoned. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Concerned about the mobility of Parisians is a very good thing, but Paris is not all of France, and rural people do not have the same concerns. But you don't want to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u358	Intent trial!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u359	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u360	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u361	That's unpleasant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u362	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u363	Without controversy, it is difficult, in some territories, to hear that we are going to put an end to the TGV. We have no idea what this means when we live in Auvergne, where there is not a single kilometer of high-speed line. Moreover, one cannot claim to limit the construction "where it is useful": the TGV is useful for all French people, including those residing in the Cantal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u364	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u365	The only thing we are saying is that some territories have long been waiting for infrastructure worthy of this name, and that objective criteria encourage them to pay attention. The Cantal has a single national road with certain winding portions on which the speed is limited to 30 km/h. There's only Mr. Barbe to call it a "beautiful road"! And you know, Mr. Secretary of State, the state of the railway lines that allow us to reach Brive and then Limoges. These territories are therefore entitled to imagine that they may one day be a priority, without asking for any special favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u366	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u367	Mr. Secretary of State, you are strenghtening your position with this text. This part is essential to us. I must say that I am a little surprised to hear the rapporteur say that a high-speed line or motorway infrastructure will only be built in the areas that deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u368	He said that, really?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u369	Yes, yes, those are your words, rapporteur! I know that you are trying to go to the field because you have come to my home, to a territory that "does not deserve it." Indeed, it does not currently have TGVs, and I take it from your comments that we would not actually need them. This is crucial for the way in which we are going to build tomorrow's mobility. It is precisely because we refuse that there are territories and French second zone, which would not have access to the major centres, areas of economic development, work, employment and places of training for their children, that we demand, for the rural or medium-mountain territories, in view of their natural handicaps, an additional effort of solidarity, on the part of the State, for the realization of infrastructures which the local authorities are not able to carry out themselves; But, rapporteur, you have called on them to deal with these matters. As far as I know, no local authority, even in a large area, can build high-speed lines or motorways. To say here in the National Assembly that these territories do not deserve such infrastructure and will never deserve it is serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u370	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u371	That indeed deserves clarification!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u372	I cannot, Mr. Viala, allow you to interpret my remarks in the sense that you did. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] With regard to the closure of the SNCF line mentioned by Mrs Dalloz, a small effort by Mr Wauquiez, I think, would have allowed it to be left open.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u373	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u374	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] At one point, ladies and gentlemen, the truth must be told! The whole objective of the bill is to provide local and regional authorities with the means to organise mobility at home. As the Secretary of State pointed out, 13.4 billion investments must be committed, two thirds of them for the rail network: we had not seen this in some time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u375	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u376	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We want to ask communities how best to invest in the territories, as they are the ones who know about them. I think it's a bit of coffee that you're blaming us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u377	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u378	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u379	I will make a further observation. I come from a territory that has long lived in the illusion of a high-speed line, in this case between Limoges and Poitiers, or the development of a road twice two ways between these two cities: projects repeatedly announced and never carried out nor financed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. - Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I am not calling into question anyone, I am just saying that there was a practice, the policy of small steps, which consisted of announcing projects and then running behind the funding, to the detriment of the populations concerned. The best promise we can make to the territories, it seems to me, is the one we make to them today: to vote for a sincere text on the budget. It is, in other words, to see what you have voted here in terms of programming achieved on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u380	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 8, 155, 575, 651 and 216, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 8, 155, 575 and 651 are identical. Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u381	The aim of this amendment is to recall that in the field of transport policy, in particular for the construction and management of infrastructure and for the organisation of public transport, the State is required to consult the National Mountain Council, the competent territorial authorities and the Massif Committees, in order to take account of the specific nature of mountain areas in relation to transport and mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u382	Amendment No 155 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard is being defended. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 575.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u383	This amendment incorporates a proposal from ANEM, the National Association of Mountain Elected Persons. I think with nostalgia at a time that our colleagues in the majority could not know, that when I became a Member of Parliament in 2007, the ANEM had a considerable strike force.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u384	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u385	The mountain elected were able to show solidarity and overcome political divisions. And when they spoke, the minister who was on the bench, whatever he was, had a fear justified by the solidity of their positions. [[Mrs Yolaine de Courson exclaimed]] Your great particularity is that you no longer take this instance into account. However, ANEM is a true actress of the mountain territories. Madame de Courson, please, perhaps you sometimes speak for the rural territories, but not for the mountain territories. Perhaps the latter, I said, need bridges with the Government and each of its members, via ANEM. The subject we are talking about really involves the elected representatives of the mountain: we know our territories, their specificities, their difficulties and their problems. The rapporteur may laugh at this: for these territories, enclaving is a daily reality, which I invite you to come and see regularly on the spot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u386	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 651.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u387	We will join the rapporteur here, since these amendments are intended to give the bodies responsible for defending the interests of the territories we are talking about and ensuring that they are represented. These bodies, transpartial and plural, are seized of all the problems in thematic order. I therefore do not see the difficulty of making their opinions on mobility infrastructure projects mandatory before any implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u388	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 216.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u389	I come back to this amendment which has already been tabled at first reading. The decree of 3 May 2017 defines the functioning of the Massif Committees, in particular with regard to the presence of three specialised committees, one of which is in the field of transport and mobility. The latter, under the terms of the decree itself, may give opinions on any matter relating to transport and mobility. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to clarify that, in the context of public service missions relating to transport and mobility, local authorities "consult the Massif Committees for their opinions". This would be in line with the spirit of the mountain law of 1985, which we revisited in 2016, and the decree of 3 May 2017. I do not understand that you do not accept such an amendment, whereas, I repeat, it is in accordance with a decree already applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u390	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u391	Disadvantaged, as at first reading, first of all because the legislator already requires the state to carry out such a consultation: on this point, the amendments are therefore satisfied, and I do not see the point of reintroducing what is already in the law. As for the communities on whose territory mountain ranges are located, I hope that they will consult the Massif Committees. The local elected representatives will certainly not fail to do so, especially since, as has just been pointed out, each massif committee contains a committee specialising in transport and mobility, in accordance with Article 7 of the Mountain Law. Request for withdrawal, therefore; failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u392	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u393	Same opinion, with the same arguments on the merits. Mrs Élisabeth Borne had, I believe, received the representatives of ANEM, and I am at their disposal in the same way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u394	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u395	According to the decree, Mr rapporteur, the specialised committee "can deal with all matters concerning transport and mobility" and, if necessary, propose experiments. What we, elected from the mountain, are asking here on behalf of ANEM is to make this consultation mandatory and systematic by the communities, which are responsible for public service and organizational tasks. Massif committees are in fact used to dealing with mountain-specific issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u396	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u397	I hear you well, Ms.Dubié, but, as we have said many times since the beginning of the bill's review, it is also a decentralization bill. What you say in this chamber is necessarily understood by the territorial elected representatives. I cannot imagine, after all the debates that have taken place in the Assembly and in the Senate, the local authorities going beyond the massive committees! If they did, it would be very damaging to them. Should there be a fully Jacobine law, which would impose everything from Paris and no longer leave the hands of local authorities? Either we introduce in the text, in the form of an enumeration, all that we want to impose on them through a Parisian vision – since, as I have heard, we are parliamentarians above ground! – either we leave it to them to organise their mobilitys.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u398	With what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u399	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Walls on the benches of the LR group]] This is exactly the second option we choose here, by giving communities the tools, the framework and the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u400	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-10-E2001.u401	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, on further reading, of the mobility guidance bill. The meeting is adjourned.
