ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the European trade agenda and the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan (No 1619).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u2	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u3	The motion for a resolution before us today raises a simple question: what Europe do we want in a multilateral system shaken by the rise of protectionism? No one wants Europe to be the collateral victim of the war that we have been witnessing in recent months. In July 2018, the United States launched the first salve by taxing China's products by 25 per cent $50 billion, as a result of China's failure to comply with WTO rules on government subsidies and the transfer of forced technology. China reacts by taxing the same amount of US imports. Europe does the same a few days later. Donald Trump launched a second salve last September and tax of 10% $200 billion in additional Chinese imports. The next day, Beijing announced the taxation of $60 billion in U.S. imports. In parallel, Donald Trump blocks the renewal of the judges of the WTO dispute settlement body's appellate body. As we speak, two Chinese and American delegations are attempting a ceasefire. Without agreement on the deadline of 1 March, Washington will introduce new sanctions. The consequences of this war – because it is a war – are heavy for the whole world. Already, the European Monetary Fund – IMF's 2019 growth forecast for the euro area has recently been revised downwards to 1.9%. Europe cannot remain passive. Mr Juncker is negotiating an exit from the crisis through the WTO, but this implies a reformed WTO, more lucid, more modern and fairer. It'll be a long time. In the meantime, Europe must pursue its own trade policy in order to protect our trade as best as possible from any trade war. The European Union's efforts yield important results: CETA's provisional entry into force, the free trade agreement with Canada concluded in September 2017; entry into force of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan since 1 February; European Parliament vote in favour of the agreement with Singapore on 13 February; presentation last October of the agreement between the European Union and Vietnam; next start of the round negotiations with Indonesia, New Zealand and Australia. Through these agreements, we are a market protected from trade wars, a regulated market covering 1.1 billion people and representing 25,000 billion euros, or 30% of world GDP. The first results are promising. CETA allowed European exports to take off by 7.1% between October 2017 and June 2018. Canadian imports did not result in the agricultural disasters that were announced to us,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u4	Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u5	... with minimal consumption of quotas. As for the last health scandal that struck Europe, it came not from the Atlantic but from Poland. These figures are encouraging but the results of our external trade for 2018 show us that the path to a return to balance will be long. Signing trade agreements is good, but without companies, it is in vain. With this resolution, we call on professional organisations and our public operators to mobilize on the new agreements. The stakes of these agreements are not only commercial, they also correspond to a choice of society. The European Commission's action plan of 2018 is a step forward but still falls short of our demands, made by the French government. As the President of the Republic has said, we have the ambition to move from "free trade" to "fair trade". Our demands are specific: greater environmental conditionality, a carbon tax at Europe's borders, the obligation to respect the Paris agreements and the climate veto, a binding sustainable development component, and, in the agricultural field, access to the European market as part of a global envelope. I will conclude with the role of Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, our recommendations have made progress, thanks to your involvement and that of the Government. We will hear from you before and after each Council of Trade Ministers. We have a regularly updated trade agreement monitoring table. We are working together on impact studies. Transparency is much better, and all my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs recognize that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u6	We don't wet comrades!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u7	[[Smile]] I don't wet anyone, I associate. However, it is necessary to go further and the coming agreements will be a test. We propose that the National Assembly adopt, before each negotiating mandate for a trade agreement, a resolution to express our position, and we call for the full association of Parliament throughout the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u8	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will be vigilant, Secretary of State. On commercial matters, let us make Parliament a committed actor! That is the whole meaning of this resolution, demanding for ourselves and for the Government, which I invite you to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u10	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u11	A European!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u12	We are meeting this afternoon to consider the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleague Jacques Maire and co-signed by all the Members of the majority on the move and MODEM, which would in itself demonstrate the importance of the subject. Filed under article 34 (1) of the Constitution, this text has not been discussed in committee and therefore arrives directly at the meeting. It addresses the twofold subject of the European trade agenda and the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan. This agreement entered into force on February 1 without any particular debate in France – a good sign for this treaty! For several years now, the European Union has embarked on an important trade negotiation policy in order to develop bilateral trade agreements. This active policy responds to the deterioration of the global multilateral environment, which our colleague Jacques Maire rightly stresses. The trade war between China and the United States poses serious threats to global growth. Europe has been directly affected by US decisions to increase tariffs on steel or aluminium – it has replied on Bourbon or Harley-Davidson. There is an urgent need to reinvigorate an effective reform of the World Trade Organization in order to avoid these trade wars that deplete us all. Like our colleague, we welcome the European Union's efforts to try to bring our American and Chinese partners closer together, despite the difficulties of the task. Several agreements have been negotiated and signed, and have come into force, such as the one we are discussing today or the harmful CETA with Canada. Others are under negotiation or finalization, in particular MERCOSUR, which raises legitimate concerns. I would like to recall that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the European Union. It is its sole responsibility to legislate on trade issues and to conclude international trade agreements. If the agreements cover issues of mixed competence, and therefore not only trade policy, the Council can only conclude them after it has been ratified by all the Member States. The rule is clear and I am surprised to see this majority, who openly claims to be very European, complain that Parliament is not sufficiently involved in these agreements. It is respect for European texts. If we are not satisfied, which is often our case, let us mobilize to change them! But don't pretend to claim a beatate Europhilia at the same time as you ask for a place to be given to the voices of national parliaments. It is a matter of coherence. We support the various recitals promoting better information for Parliament, particularly at the negotiating mandate stage. In fact, it was a proposal made by our former colleague Pierre Lellouche, during the previous parliamentary term, in many debates on the TAFTA – the transatlantic trade and investment partnership – that the European Union had begun to negotiate with the United States before President Trump put an end to it. For once we can salute one of his decisions that preserves French interests, let us not deprive ourselves of it! I take this debate to surprise myself that the CETA with Canada, which is a mixed agreement, has largely entered into force for several months, but that our Assembly has not yet been called upon to ratify it. Given what it contains – and I am thinking of our French agricultural producers – I can easily understand that your government does not want us to debate it before the European elections. Courage, let's run!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u13	He's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u14	We sincerely wonder about the democratic process and respect for Parliament: when we have to vote, your government is running away from the debate; when we don't have to vote, your majority is using false appearances by inviting us to consider the national parliament better. Your motion for a resolution thus has the merit of stressing the many criticisms that can be made of these trade agreements: lack of transparency in the negotiations; feeling of abandoning our national interests on the altar of unbridled globalization; feeling of sacrifice of environmental, health or social norms to which Europeans and especially the French are attached; concern for already weakened sectors; question of a controlled consumption model. These aspects are worrying our fellow citizens and are certainly participating in the crisis of confidence in our institutions and, more generally, in the European institutions. Paradoxically, the agreement between the European Union and Japan that you refer to in your motion for a resolution is one of the ones that most escapes these various criticisms. Most negotiating documents have been posted online, such as the negotiating mandate given to the Commission, the status and progress of the negotiations. This agreement is particularly ambitious as it gives rise to a free trade area with a wealth of nearly a quarter of the world's GDP. The European Parliament approved the agreement on 12 December 2018 by a large majority: 474 votes in favour, 152 against and 40 abstentions. This seems to me to be a democratic consultation more than valid, and I would like to remind you that three months before the European elections. Japan is France's second largest trading partner in Asia and the leading Asian investor in France. Like the Baccarat Crystalry, in my constituency, 8000 French companies, including many first-time exporters, are already exporting to Japan for more than 6 billion euros. Customs duties are abolished for approximately 90% of EU products exported to Japan as soon as the Agreement enters into force. For other products, customs duties will be phased out gradually, with up to 20 years for Japan and 16 years for the European Union. In the long term, the agreement provides for the elimination of 97% of customs duties on goods exported to Japan. Certain duties will remain on agricultural products such as rice. French producers must benefit from the abolition of customs duties for almost 85% of agricultural products exported from the European Union to Japan. Annual exports of agricultural products from the European Union to Japan amount to more than EUR 5 billion. The reduction of customs duties in this sector must strengthen the competitiveness of French companies, which have so far faced high customs duties – 15% for wine, 38% for beef and veal and 30% for cheese. The agreement also protects more than 200 European geographical indications, in particular that of Roquefort. To be a member of the friendship group, this respect for our know-how, our gastronomic heritage does not surprise me from Japan. Respect is an essential value for our Japanese friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u15	Respect for whales?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u16	This agreement does not give rise to the virulent debates that have surrounded TAFTA or CETA. It is seen as balanced and beneficial for most of our sectors – agriculture, pharmaceuticals, automobiles, and I am going through it. Good! This is probably due, in part, to the remoteness or extreme cultural, linguistic and social differences between our countries. But our fellow citizens do not feel threatened by this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u17	They don't know he exists, the unfortunate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u18	It should also be stressed that they are very sensitive to the reaction of our agricultural sectors. When they correctly sound the alarm bell, the French feel immediately concerned. This suggests potential difficulties with agreements with MERCOSUR and with New Zealand and Australia, by which our interests are threatened. However, this motion for a resolution does not escape the flaws of this type of text. Consisting of a long verbiage of "yakafokon" whose usefulness is not demonstrated, it essentially reflects the parliamentary frustration – understandable – of not being associated with this type of trade agreement, and calls for better information from Parliament at the time of drafting the negotiating mandate. It also has the merit of pointing out the lack of transparency that generally prevails in these negotiations, accentuating the sense of dispossession of our fellow citizens. It also raises, once again, the gap between the ambitions of the Paris agreements and their translation into international trade agreements. The Group of the European People's Party does not see the point of voting on this motion for a resolution and regrets that once again the National Assembly is wasting its time in unnecessary debates at the sitting, when these can take place perfectly in committee. Arigato gozaimashita!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u19	This is the second Republican offensive against the Foreign Affairs Committee in a week!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u20	Mrs Marielle de Sarnez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u21	Trade is an element of power and power, and what we see happening could, if we do not take care of it, degenerate into a large-scale commercial war, and ultimately threaten the balance of the world. Although the attitude of China, which has never fully respected its commitments, must be taken into account, the United States has a great deal of responsibility. Threat to Chinese exports with a plan to tax 25% on $200 billion of Chinese products, taxation on European steel and aluminium, withdrawal of the Iranian nuclear agreement, adoption of new sanctions against Russian aluminum, active blocking of the World Trade Organisation: American policy is all about azimuts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u22	You're firing unsuspecting, dear Marielle de Sarnez!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u23	This action is all the more destabilizing because it is based on extraterritorial legislation that the United States can activate anywhere in the world, depending on its own interests or its current foreign policy obsessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u24	Exactly! Down with imperialism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u25	The US administration is now threatening to reactivate the Helms-Burton Act, which would allow American interests expropriated 60 years ago by the Castrist regime to prosecute foreign, European and French companies that invested in Cuba!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u27	[[Applause on many benches of MODEM, LaREM, FI, SOC and GDR groups]] That decision would be contrary to international law. Europe must not, Mr Secretary of State, let it go! This legal imperialism has flourished for too long. Let us recall the terms of General Electric's acquisition of Alstom's turbines, which coincided, as by chance, with the imposition by the US authorities of a transactional fine of $772 million. In the face of these methods, it is only time to react.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u28	Shit! Let's go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u29	Well done, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u30	The European Union has exclusive jurisdiction over trade matters. This can and must be a factor of unity and efficiency, provided that the political and legal means are provided to respond firmly to the provocations of each other. Europe weighs 22% of world GDP. It must use this force to effectively protect European citizens and their interests, both commercial and political. At the initiative of France, Germany and Great Britain, a mechanism has been put in place to allow trade with Iran. This is a positive first step that should be welcomed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u31	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u32	But we will have to go further and equip ourselves with the instruments necessary for Europe to finally be respected! It is not acceptable for European companies and banks to fear more about non-compliance with American laws than with our own laws!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u34	Defending our interests also means better involving citizens and their representatives in the development and monitoring of trade policy. That is the meaning of the resolution that we are examining today, and of which I thank Jacques Maire for taking the initiative. For the past 18 months, I have been working – and we have been working in the Committee on Foreign Affairs – to set up a new operation with the Government, with new impact studies and regular consultation of parliamentarians before the European Councils of Trade Ministers. I thank Mr. Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne for his personal involvement. [[Applause on many benches of MODEM, LaREM, FI, SOC and GDR groups]] You will have understood that there is still a great deal of progress to be made, particularly at the European Commission. I therefore hope that we will be heard both in Paris and in Brussels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u35	Madame de Sarnez, you can come and sit next to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u36	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u37	I have ten minutes, which is rare for the opposition. The Republic knows – I don't say "God knows" – how much I appreciate you, Mr.Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u38	I'm waiting for the fall...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u39	In cauda venenum, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u40	It is extraordinary that at 1:53 p.m., the prefect's office will call me to inform me that a public debate will take place in my constituency at 7 p.m., while everyone knows that I am speaking in the gallery at 4:30 p.m. It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u41	[[Smile]] Conplotist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u42	Rather, they generally do not know that I can speak on this subject at this time and that an opposition Member cannot be present in a public debate. At 1:53 p.m., a deputy of the Republic learns of a public debate in his constituency, with the arrival of a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u43	Even if we are against this kind of debate, it is true that it is not admissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u44	That's what I want to explain now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u45	Is this a debate? That's the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u46	It's a real debate. We rarely talk about the Court of Justice of the European Union – very rarely at the café du commerce, extremely rarely in public debates. It is also quite rare for political parties to define language elements to talk about it in Christmas or New Year's debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u47	I'm doing it about Western Sahara!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u48	The Court of Justice of the European Union does not exist in the minds of our fellow citizens! Today, however, we are in an extremely special situation: this court has decided that our parliament will never again decide on a measure relating to international trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u49	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u50	It's still terrible! This means that we are completely excluded. This decision is crucial. I could understand that if it were in the area of human rights. But no one's talking about it. Where are we talking about it? Nowhere! Le Monde devotes two lines, and Mediapart, four.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u51	You have to read Humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u52	That's right, Mr. Lecoq. In any case, the Court of Justice of the European Union has decided that this Parliament no longer exists! There are now two possible types of agreement. The first one takes care of everything, except nothing: this one will never again be examined here, never again! The second one deals with nothing, except everything, i.e. litigation – when one does not agree – and indirect investment. Let me know what indirect investments are! On the other hand, I thank our colleague Jacques Maire, who managed to put back the focus, to be American – the spotlight, if we want to be more in line with your generation...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u53	Don't speak the language of the occupant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u54	The language of the Empire!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u55	I can still please the American journalists of Spotlight: they had done the right thing at the time, and it wasn't bad. Thank you, Jacques Maire, for putting the spotlight on it! The problem is, we're divested of everything. This new doctrine of the European economy is far beyond us. That you, my dear colleague, should table a motion for a resolution means that you want to discuss it. Even if we do not agree with you, you have a real merit – I say frankly – in focusing on this matter. On the other hand, as Edmond Rostand would say, "it's a little short." Can we have short memory? During the previous parliamentary term, in May 2014, Parliament had discussed the proposal for a European resolution on the draft free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States – TTIP. This draft treaty, which obviously no longer exists with Mr Donald Trump, had drawn red lines...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u57	...not to be exceeded. I think your initiative is good, which allows Parliament to exist a little bit more. Even more so, in addition to the red lines, a committee of parliamentarians had been set up, composed of Members from all sides, who discussed decisions or recommendations to be taken on economic relations. That is why, once again, I am delighted, even if I am surprised, by Jacques Maire's initiative, and I thank him for that. [[Applause on all benches]] I am also pleased that President Marielle de Sarnez managed to bring back the debate on international issues into the House, which no longer existed. I think we all agree, and I say congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u58	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u59	Madam President, you can see that we are applauding on every bench. It's exceptional. Let it never stop! Unfortunately, the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union can completely stop everything we are doing today. Of course, your motion for a resolution is a simili-resolution, a simili-acceptance, but it does not matter. We really need to regain power, so that our voters can think that we have a minimum decision-making capacity. I'm sorry, but at some point you have to react to the movement of the yellow vests! The first agreement we are discussing is that of the European Union with Japan. The situation with this country is not very complicated. Since Michel Jobert's blocking of Japanese video recorders in Poitiers, a few points remain to be discussed, but this is not the point. The problem with Japan is that environmental standards are zero! At the level of social standards, it's zero! As for the ratification of a number of agreements with the International Labour Organization – on forced labour, not to say slavery, on discrimination – Japan is not at best. Can we sign such a text?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u60	These reservations will be included in the resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u61	But this is just a resolution, and you know how these negotiations work! This agreement is not really in line with the standards we have, in particular the environmental standards resulting from the Paris agreements. We heard the other day, Mrs Loiseau, who is very nice but who thought we were idiots about the Constitution. That, Madam President, must never be forgotten: the way in which she considered us – you as well as us – is absolutely lamentable! We'll talk about it again next time. Certain behaviour towards Parliament is not acceptable. To return to Japan, its standards are not the same as ours, especially in the environmental field, where we apply the Paris agreements. Japan has also not signed the resolution on forced labour, nor has it complied with other standards that correspond to legitimate causes for us, as for you, Mr. Mayor. Yet it is not the most dangerous country, since it is mainly in the field of electronics, with Samsung, in particular, that it seeks to impose itself. We must therefore clearly decide what we want to do. I make it clear that the resolution proposed by the Group of the European People's Party is a form of alert. She's beautiful, and I find this approach interesting. But we're not at the level. The Japanese have in their culture wabi-sabi: the art of perfection and imperfection. Here, we have come across the perfection of liberalism and imperfection in the fields of social, public service or culture. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, UDI-Agir and FI groups]] I therefore ask you wholeheartedly, knowing, Mr Maire, how concerned you are with social, culture and respect for others, to think that Parliament still has one existence. Fortunately, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in particular, is defending it. Otherwise, it would no longer be useful for us to come together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u62	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u63	Today we are considering a motion for a resolution on the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan and on CETA with Canada, and more generally on the agenda of the European Union's trade negotiations and their modalities. The text of this resolution refers in turn to wishes, regrets, reminders and congratulations, in relation to the modalities for negotiating trade agreements at European level, but also to proposals for additions to future agreements or those under negotiation. Knowing that a resolution is an act by which the National Assembly gives an opinion on a specific issue, an act which, therefore, has no normative or binding value, as has already been pointed out, I wondered what objective our colleague was pursuing. I first thought that it was trying, through this debate, to respond to the acute crisis of confidence that has affected our citizens and civil society as a whole since the CETA negotiations and the lack of transparency that has characterized them. But I quickly rejected this assumption, because the agreement between the European Union and Japan is the perfect counter-example: throughout the negotiations, the Commission has been particularly careful about their transparency. The Member States and the European Parliament have been kept informed of each stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u64	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u65	Dozens of meetings were held with members of national parliaments...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u66	Which ones? Give names!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u67	... and with civil society, in order to discuss the ongoing negotiations. The Commission has posted the negotiating documents and the reports of the negotiating rounds – I am talking about the agreement between the European Union and Japan, not CETA. On the very day of the announcement of an agreement, the Commission published the text of the agreement and sent it to each of the twenty-eight capitals of the Union and to the European Parliament, in order to inform them of what had been agreed. Upon the conclusion of the negotiations, on 8 December 2017, all the texts of the agreement were made available online.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u68	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u69	The wishes or proposals you put forward, Mr Mayor, in the motion for a resolution are in part in line with the statements of the President of the Republic and the Government. You who belong to the majority, were you afraid that these commitments would not be fulfilled, or did you just want to call them back here, in case?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u70	He was afraid they wouldn't be held up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u71	Apart from Taquineries, we can support many of your proposals for information on the state of the negotiations, including those that can be implemented directly by the Government. But, to see some of them on this list, you seem to forget that we must not go too far by increasing the process of negotiating these trade agreements, making it too long or too complex. Unfortunately, the Commission is negotiating on the basis of a mandate approved by the governments of the European Union, and the European Parliament is ratifying. Our Assembly only pronounces itself to ratify the mixed agreements. The others are not within our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u72	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u73	Indeed, the question may be asked, but this is not the subject of this debate: it would mean discussing changes in Parliament's law on this point. It finally appeared to me, in the second hypothesis, that you might wish us to discuss the substance of CETA and that of the agreement with Japan. The latest agreement, the economic partnership between the European Union and Japan, signed on 17 July 2018, is a very ambitious global agreement: when fully implemented, 99% of the tariffs applied to EU exports to Japan will be abolished. But that's not the only reason. Since the negotiation of CETA, Europe, through new generation agreements, has demonstrated its willingness to respect environmental and climate issues, including in the agreement chapters on sustainable development as well as compliance with the Paris climate agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u74	Talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u75	The Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan is therefore an opportunity for Europe. It opens up a market of 126 million people, the third largest gross domestic product in the world. The agreement thus creates a vast economic zone representing about 30 per cent of the world's gross domestic product. Japan is France's second largest trading partner in Asia, and the largest Asian investor in France, with bilateral trade reaching EUR 15.6 billion in 2016, with a deficit of just over EUR 3 billion for France. The first year of CETA implementation does not appear to have destabilized sensitive sectors, but on the contrary has allowed a positive development of bilateral trade, with an increase in European exports to Canada of just over 7% between October 2017 and June 2018. More specifically, French exports increased by 5.3% over the first seven months of 2018. Although this assessment is provisional, it is encouraging. But in this regard, Minister, as was recalled earlier, the question before us today is that of the ratification of CETA, scheduled for autumn 2018, but which has not yet taken place. Could you tell us when the Government intends to refer this ratification to Parliament? Finally, I am well aware that parliamentarians are entitled to vote on resolutions by which they express their opinion on a draft or an act of the European Union, on which they do not take any action. But, in order to improve the role of Parliament, to which Mr Hutin referred, should we not really review this procedure of resolutions? They are, in fact, today in this House only opportunities for chatter, to use the expression used earlier by Mr Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u76	Let's think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u77	In any case, I wanted to share with you the perplexity that this procedure inspires me: it has been more than an hour since we discussed and expressed our wishes to the European institutions, whereas, in the case of non-mixed trade agreements, it is the Government, and it alone, which grants the negotiating mandate and asserts the rights and interests of the nation. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, SOC and FI groups]] Thus, in view of the purely declarative and ultimately in vain aspects of this text, the UDI-Agir and Independents Group will not participate in the vote on this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u78	All right! When the centrists show courage, we can only salute!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u79	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u80	Let us thank those who have tabled this resolution: thanks to them, we will be able to talk about this free trade agreement with Japan, JEFTA, which would otherwise have been totally impossible. It is normal that we say it, and that we also say that we can recognize ourselves in certain words, such as those that Marielle de Sarnez made a moment ago. Let us first put it in its place, in its scope: it is an agreement that affects one third of the world economy, 40 per cent of world trade. It affects 600 million people. This is the largest free trade agreement ever signed. It is therefore an event that must be appreciated in all its intensity. You say it's, in itself, a company project. Indeed! And it is a project on which I mean frankly that we feel totally opposed: no, free trade is not, in our view, the future of humanity. We believe, on the contrary, that free trade causes a levelling down of all social conditions and environmental conditions, because, in the system of the capitalist economy, it is obviously what costs the least that finds the most extensive market, even though this cheaper one includes destruction of the environment and suffering of human beings. It is therefore not a conspiracy, it is a logic internal to the system itself that leads to making free trade this unfortunate machine. In these circumstances, I reiterate that, from our point of view, that of the programme "The Common Future", it is the protectionism of solidarity, that is, the bilateral renegotiation, which makes it possible to establish what is good for the peoples, according to the productive capacities and the particular abilities of each of them. In other words, it is not a question of denying the historical movement that led the peoples to their differentiation, but of relying on this differentiation to make it a starting point for cooperation and not for generalized competition. We accuse the JEFTA agreement of being the organisation of a new form of absolute competition, which will be devastating for the environment and for social rights. I'll try to prove it as quickly as possible. If we look at the extraordinary importance of the content of this agreement and the means by which decisions have been taken, the result is appalling. Why? The negotiating mandate with Japan was established in 2012, more than six years ago. It's never been made public. So we negotiated without knowing what or how. The new French government, the new French President, had just said that Europe would definitely fall ill with secrecy, if we continued as we had done. The President had said: "If the CETA is redone, then the disaster is guaranteed".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u81	He was right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u82	But it is not Canadians, our problem is the content of CETA, and especially the fact that it was never possible to discuss it either. The mandate was not only unknown, but secret, and European parliamentarians could only enter the room where the CETA text was located if they came there without a pen, without a camera, without seeking to reproduce the texts, and only had a pencil of paper on them. It was absolutely amazing! The situation was the same for the Transatlantic Free Trade Treaty (TAFTA), an agreement with the United States of America that did not prevent the United States of America from boldly spying on us, which meant that in the end everyone knew what was in the mandate, except the European parliamentarians. When I talk about spying on us, I don't slander: it's a fact. At the time, President Hollande had said that, since that was how it was, we had to interrupt the discussions of the TAFTA. But, as President Hollande has never had any follow-up in his ideas, he naturally did not enforce this suspension of negotiations. In the meantime, the JEFTA decided in secret. This government had, however, adopted resolutions that seemed to be common sense: when an agreement of extreme importance comes, the great nation has its say. Well, what happened? In May 2018, therefore, before the deliberation of the European Court of Justice which our colleague Hutin mentioned earlier, a meeting of the European Council was held, this kind of supranational Senate which brings together the Heads of State and Government and takes intergovernmental decisions for Europe. As everyone knows here, the French Government is represented as such, and the French Government has voted, along with the others, that now the free trade agreements will no longer be discussed in national parliaments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u83	An eradication of parliaments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u84	Let us stop believing that something would have fallen from our skies without governments having a say. No! They had their say, and France said, "Okay, we won't talk about it." What an aberration, because at the end, what are we talking about, since we no longer have the right to speak? I mentioned chatter, about the environmental provisions of the text. A wicked language might suggest that we too do nothing but talk, since, in any case, the words we speak will have no consequences. In a way, agreeing to discuss these agreements under such conditions can be seen as a form of surrender.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u85	I agree: at one point, it will have to stop.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u86	After drawing your attention to the gap between the scope of the project and the secrecy that surrounded it, I would like to refer to the other problems that it raises. It not only poses a democratic problem, its content itself is worrying, since, in particular, it does not contain any binding provisions on environmental matters. However, environmental issues are of paramount importance. The Nicolas Hulot Foundation has declared, because of the fundamentally free-trade nature of the text, that it is the most ecocidal text that has ever been signed. It's an extremely serious charge. We'll say the line is forced. How is it, then, that this agreement with our Japanese partners does not mention once, for example, the issue of biodiversity, particularly whale fishing? We're so we can stop fishing these mammals, murder them to tell the truth. Well, as this fishery is not mentioned anywhere, we are about to validate an agreement in which we recognize that our partner has the right to continue fishing which all international legislation condemns. I take specific examples, so that the House understands that we have carried out a detailed analysis of the text. I don't throw the stone at our Japanese friends, who have nothing to do with it – the Japanese on the street isn't aware of it – yet it happens that a large part of the illegal traffic in timber transits through Japan, traffic whose free trade agreement will make us accomplices, unless we check every shipment of wood to detect the possible presence of illegal wood, which no one will do. Even if you would, you could not, since only one container in a thousand is controlled upon its arrival in our ports. As far as the social question is concerned, we know that every time we lower the level of protection, it is a bonus that we give to the one who practices the lowest level of protection. However, Japan has not signed several international conventions in this area, including the one on forced or compulsory labour: it is not nothing! Why do you agree, under these conditions, to sign the free trade agreement? Nor has Japan signed the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination, which, for us French, is of certain importance to us. And how do we get out of this? It's all right, we're going on, it's okay! We are going to make a rich free trade agreement, and we are happy because, on both sides, we will be able to eat dirty things produced under unacceptable conditions. The general line of a new ecological organization of society is the maximum relocation of activities. If you believe that it will always be possible to maintain trade by transporting massive quantities of goods on cargo ships, you are wrong. During the exceptional natural events we now face, the waves reach 40 metres, compared to 20 metres in the past. Don't lock us in situations you won't be able to control in the near future! Nor can I accept the existence of these arbitration tribunals, which have been established under CETA and which are welcomed in the motion for a resolution. The courts of arbitration, whatever they may be, are bad: why would the law of finance be different from the common law that applies in each of our countries? We don't know what kind of court this is. The private courts of arbitration, populated by people who all agree, have already condemned Germany to pay 1 billion because it has abandoned nuclear energy. The Australians were convicted of their smoking ban policy, the Italians for refusing drilling less than 2 miles from their coasts. This is what these courts are: they give specific rights to those who have money, as if they had separate laws and courts. We are against, even more so if they are the same so-called courts as those established under CETA. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr Christian Hutin also applauds]] As is curious, you are making these proposals at a time when the European Commission decides to set up permanent courts whose members have been chosen. No, no and no! We cannot accept the Convention, because it organises social dumping, splintered free trade and environmental dumping, nor can we vote for a text in which it is written that capital would have rights different from those of peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u87	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u88	The debates on the European Union's trade policy follow and are sadly similar. We have to face things: the European political landscape is chaotic and radicalised, from the far right that thrives on lies and hatred, to the neoliberals that thrive on other lies and other hatreds. Open your eyes! Where does despair and anger come from in our country? The French feel that they are being abandoned, that the world is running between their fingers, that their political choices are being trampled on, that their jobs are being threatened, that their wages will no longer allow them to live, that they will never see retirement, that the richest will always be richer while the poorest will become poorer, that their children will live in a world even more rotten than ours and that the planet will begin to burn much faster than the most pessimistic predicted ten years ago. The observation is clear. On the one hand, the economic system becomes more radical: it goes straight into the wall, crushing everything – natural resources, employees, people deprived of jobs – and violating the tax rules to satisfy the greed of some. On the other side, it's the mandatory belt clamping. As Coluche said: French, French, tighten your belt for another five years, after which you will be used to it! The crisis in France is, in part, due to the commercial outrages that the European Union, with your complicity, makes us suffer. The free trade treaties yesterday with Canada, today with New Zealand and Australia, Japan and Singapore, tomorrow with Vietnam, are designed to liberalize trade by destroying tariffs and equalizing economic, commercial, environmental or wage standards. For what results? The reduction in customs duties for the European Union results in a reduction in its budget. It is true that the European Union is not embarrassed by paradoxes. It does not care about losing customs duties because it simply requires Member States to increase their annual contributions. So that the trade treaties, by reducing the customs duties levied by the European Union, result in an increase in the financing of the Union by the Member States and, for us, more taxes go into the common pot of the Union. European negotiators know that; This is why they took great care, in the case of the Treaty between the Union and Japan, to negotiate it in secret for four years and to split its wording into two parts – this is a difference with the CETA – the first dealing with the commercial aspect and the second dealing with investment protection. Why did you so sausage the treatise? Say it, we have to take over this cutting, which has nothing to do with it. According to a recent opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the commercial aspect of this agreement is the exclusive competence of the European Union, thus evading the need for it to have all trade-related measures ratified. It is only necessary to divide the agreements into two parts, to put on the one hand the trade provisions, which must be ratified only by the European Parliament, and on the other hand the provisions which must still be ratified by the national parliaments. And the trick is played: no more need for the validation of the peoples for the part related to trade, which yet concerns us all! Who are we laughing at? People are tired of politicians and technocrats hiding to negotiate quietly. The European Commission itself points out that Europe will benefit only a little from the JEFTA: a 0.14% increase in European GDP and the creation of 100,000 jobs by 2035, which is ridiculous compared to the 240 million assets of the European Union. If it is not direct economic benefits that motivate four years of secret negotiations, then what is it? Neoliberal ideology! In Le Monde diplomatique, in 1998, Pierre Bourdieu answered the question: "What is neoliberalism? A programme of destruction of collective structures capable of obstructing the logic of the pure market. We are at the heart of the matter: at the global level, after the failure of the World Trade Organization to implement a semblance of regulation, States and large companies have relaunched negotiations on bilateral trade agreements, in which everything is done to maximize the profit of companies and destroy anything that would limit it. A trade treaty, such as the one negotiated with Japan, aims to weaken not only public resources, by depriving them of customs duties, and States, by imposing on them private arbitration tribunals before which companies can attack them when they put in place public policies that are not suitable for them, but also employees, by putting them in competition and levelling down their protection, and small enterprises, by putting them in competition with mastodons from both economic zones, as will be the case with opening up the two areas to certain markets. It is also intended to maintain artificially sluggish economic growth for years and to increase trade in a way that ignores the environment. This is the clear and precise programme referred to by Bourdieu. The treaty between the European Union and Japan even has a huge legal loophole, perhaps voluntary, in order to circumvent environmental agreements and workers' rights. Thus, Article 16.4.5 of the Agreement provides that any measure adopted or maintained by "declaring multilateral environmental agreements" may be adopted only "provided that such measures are not applied in a manner that would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination against the other party or a disguised restriction on trade". In good French, it means that it is the least-so-called environmental that will win, as usual. Similarly, in chapter 16, it is foreseen that "the commitments of States within the framework of the International Labour Organization are reaffirmed" – that is still happy! – "but cannot violate trade and investment law". Thus, your treaty makes it possible to apply international labour law only if it does not infringe on commercial law and investment. I should also like to recall here that Japan has still not ratified the most important conventions of this venerable International Labour Organization, which is about to celebrate its 100th anniversary. As big companies must appreciate that the representatives of the people, that you are and that we are, supposed to watch over our social, economic and ecological heritage, trample all the rules! Last example, JEFTA makes no reference to the precautionary principle, while Japan is one of the world's largest users of genetically modified organisms for food. In the absence of customs barriers, with a levelling down of health standards and without the possibility of asserting the precautionary principle, what should we expect? Will it be the return through the GMO window, which we have managed, here, to expel to the great dam of the multinationals? JEFTA has set up a Regulatory Cooperation Committee, which will be composed of representatives of the European Union, Japan and multinational companies, in which each of the parties can submit regulatory texts. Representatives of large companies will therefore be able to propose changes in the standards and regulations that suit them, which is cold on the back, when one knows the porosity between the European high administration and the lobbies. European trade policy is therefore a veritable Trojan horse of neoliberal madness, which exerts pressure on labour rights, wages and environmental rights. We had already stressed this in the debate we had on the agreement between the European Union and New Zealand: why import products from an economic zone more than 15,000 kilometres away, when we can produce them at home? A European official pointed out that the increase in beef export quotas to Japan will be higher than the increase in beef import quotas allowed under CETA. As a result, our farmers would be satisfied. That's a good logic! There is a treaty with Canada that threatens the meat sector in Europe and, to get out of the crisis, Japan is negotiating quotas that are higher than export quotas. This is obviously done at the expense of the quality of food and of our planet, since instead of eating local beef, we will eat Canadian beef and the Japanese will eat French beef. If that's not a forward leak... Young people will have arguments to continue their climate strike every Friday. The Communists are therefore perfectly opposed to this type of exchange. What is important is the friendship between peoples in the context of trade agreements concluded for the benefit of peoples and not of shareholders. We must intensify exchanges on cultures, on sport, on peace, on research, including with Japan, with which we have strong links on these issues. We need to build a world that gradually moves away from the perpetual and unbridled competition that you are inflicting on us with treaties like this one. The people of Europe are tired of the low blows that you are doing to them. Have you not heard the yellow vests, the unions, today the young people and so many others who scream to preserve their dignity and have public services to the height of our national wealth? They want important means for the education of their children, for their health, for their planet, for working calmly, for a future full of humanity. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your world is going crazy and it's time for you to realize it. We will never stop fighting to change it. For this, you can trust the Communist deputies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u89	And the unsuspecting Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] We will vote against your motion for a resolution, which is part of your campaign for the European elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u91	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u92	As the world's third largest economy, Japan has one of the highest purchasing powers on the planet, and as a result, with 126 million inhabitants, there is considerable domestic demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u93	[[Smile]] Isn't the third economy in the world Corsica?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u94	The country is among the leaders in the fields of high technology and research and development. He's filing the largest number of patents in the world. Another key element is that for any foreign investor operating in its market, Japan offers an opportunity for easier entry into other Asian markets. I have summarized this country's interest in Europeans, especially in a global context of trade war, Chinese offensive and American retreat. The treaty we are discussing today, which will ultimately cover all the trade between the two powers, is therefore certainly a major agreement. It is even one of the world's largest free trade agreements, between two blocks accounting for 28% of world GDP and 37% of trade. The JEFTA will weigh heavy. The European Union is Japan's third largest trading partner, while Japan is sixth in the old continent. European exports to Japan amount to more than EUR 60 billion and Japan exports more than EUR 70 billion to the European Union, which is experiencing a trade deficit of EUR 10 billion, including more than EUR 3 billion for France. All this has already been said. In terms of direct investment, Japan is a highly protected country, with FDI – FDI abroad – entering only 4% of its GDP, which is very much less than in the European Union and the United States. It is, paradoxically, still among the very first international investors, with 1345 billion euros of FDI stock invested at the end of 2017. France has EUR 25 billion in stock investments in Japan, making it the third largest source of FDI, but Japanese investment in France amounts to only EUR 14 billion in stock, making France its only seventeenth destination – ten times less than the United Kingdom, for example. It is regrettable that the income of these FDI is not mainly reinvested in French territory, but mainly redistributed in the form of dividends. These are the macroeconomic data. The same level of trade and financial intervention means that any structural change will have enormous consequences for economic and social balances, both in one block and in the other, especially since the JEFTA is part of these so-called "new generation" agreements, combining considerable reductions in tariffs and mutual recognition of common standards and manufacturing processes, according to higher standards than those of the WTO. Beyond a purely commercial treaty, it is an economic partnership agreement. The main points of the latter are known. In the agri-food sector, which was one of the priorities of Europeans, especially the French, while the Japanese market is expanding, the abolition of tariffs for almost all food products appears to be the promise of an oxygen balloon. The recognition of the geographical designation of more than 200 European products, which will be protected at a level quite comparable to that of the European Union, and the reduction of taxes on European cheeses, which until then have been very high, are also promises of the future. However, efforts to organize trade will have to be made and export channels will have to be organized. The industry's effort will be indispensable. For their part, the public authorities will have to facilitate matters in terms of organisation and financing. The compulsory counterpart offered to the Japanese is not without problems. The Japanese will have full access to the European automotive market after a transitional period. European manufacturers will therefore have to make further innovation and productivity efforts in order to recover the loss of 10% of taxes, which is a considerable figure in terms of competitiveness. This will be all the more necessary as the Japanese government plays on the Yen-euro parity with the aim of facilitating exports and increasing the relative costs of imports. It is true that Japan is also committed, in this agreement, to using the same international standards as the European Union. This regulatory cooperation could – I am speaking on a conditional basis – facilitate access to the Japanese market for Europeans, who would no longer be forced to adapt their models in the future. On the other hand, liberalisation will be much faster and the shock will be brutal for spare parts, machinery, chemicals, textiles, construction and cosmetics – the list is not exhaustive. Beyond the interests of major firms, whose role is obviously essential, a whole fabric of SMEs could, through concerted action or portage, be integrated into the dynamics created by the agreement. Public bodies providing guidance and support for the international opening of enterprises have a role to play in this area – this is understandable – and we hope that this support will not lead to greater administrative complexity for SMEs. In any event, the Liberties and Territories Group welcomes the inclusion, for the first time in a free trade agreement, of a chapter dedicated to small and medium-sized enterprises. We would like to raise a number of issues, starting with the unquestionable issue of sustainable development. In this regard, it may be regretted that the environmental dimension has not been taken into account at any time. We cannot ignore the massacre that the Japanese are inflicting on whales, in violation of the international moratorium of 1986 and thus of international law. Mention will also be made of the illegal trade in timber, of which Japan remains the world's largest importer. The discussions prior to the agreement could have been an opportunity to make things right, and the Liberties and Territories Group regrets that this has not been the case. Consideration of this motion for a resolution is also an opportunity for us to raise the question of Parliament's control of international agreements. While we understand the logic of the transfer of powers to the European Union, the national and regional implications of such agreements are potentially considerable. It is not that we have a priori against Mrs Vestager and Mrs Malmström, but it is really regrettable that Parliament's power of control is eroded, both in this and in other areas. In the current context of increased competition, the interests of French and European producers and households should and should be defended. If we cannot do this here or in any other parliament, it is the duty of the European bodies to understand the issues at stake. We refer here to what it is agreed to call, in this small world of insiders, "asymmetric negotiations", "offensive interests" and "defensive red lines".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u96	Same comment on the cultural exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u97	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u98	Unlike the American conception, a book, a song and a film are something other than inert goods. With regard to legal risk and the protection of personal data, the dispute settlement mechanism is obviously a key issue in managing the risks taken by operators. We are one of those who look with reserve – let's say things like that – at the power granted to private courts in this matter. We prefer the system of independent and public arbitral tribunals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u99	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u100	The conclusions adopted by the Council of the Union in May 2018 propose a new architecture for trade agreements. In particular, it takes into account the intention of the European Commission to recommend, in the future, the separate negotiation of free trade agreements, which fall within the exclusive competence of the Union, and investment agreements, which will require ratification at national level. In this new context, as the motion for a resolution stresses, it is important that dialogue with national parliaments be maintained and strengthened. These topics are topical. The evolution of the regulatory framework for international trade can legitimately be questioned. CETA, TTIP, TISA, JEFTA... In total, some 20 free trade treaties between the European Union and one or more countries in Latin America and Asia are under negotiation – I am thinking in particular of the ongoing discussions with MERCOSUR and Mexico. Of course, all these agreements allow the European Union to integrate into the international economy, but can they, in substance, replace multilateral agreements? Shouldn't the current failed WTO round be deepened and reinvigorated? In any event, a number of questions remain open in this context. We hope that the discussions will lead to real progress, including on anti-competitive business practices and intellectual property protection, on issues that have been raised for years and on which negotiations have been dragging on. In conclusion, we associate ourselves with this motion for a resolution. It is positive that the European Union proves to the rest of the world, including the United States, that it refuses protectionism and self-restraint. But it would be even better if all these negotiations, which are essential for the future, were conducted in full transparency, national and regional parliaments had at least the right to look at them, the essential issues of sustainable development were taken directly into account and those treaties were truly an opportunity for mutual progress. Montesquieu said that trade is the most useful thing in the world for the state. He was certainly not wrong, but only to the extent that things are well thought out and the various little or no winning parts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u101	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u102	The motion for a resolution before us today is a perfect illustration of the new face of our House. Because we represent the people, because no subject should escape the French, we wanted to address this commercial issue, which concerns us. My colleague Jacques Maire, who has done remarkable and thorough work on this text, recalled Parliament's ever stronger involvement in trade agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u103	A necessary involvement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u104	Parliamentarians have chosen to become actors of this competence largely reserved for the European Union. At their request, they have been involved in monitoring the economic, social and environmental consequences of CETA,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u105	It's very questionable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u106	... whose commercial component came into effect in September 2017. They now stand as guarantors of the fulfilment of the commitments made by the Government and wish to be the cues that recall the principles and values to which we are all committed and which will have to be respected in the framework of the forthcoming agreements signed by the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u107	Count on us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u108	Among these, respect for the Paris agreements, recalled by the President of the Republic, the protection of our health and environmental standards as well as our social fundamentals, as well as the support of our most fragile sectors, are essential elements for us that will have to be taken into account in the current and future negotiations of the European Union. That is the whole point of this motion for a resolution. This text marks our willingness to fully assume the role of monitoring and evaluating the action of the Government assigned to parliamentarians, even when it is a competence of the European Union. CETA was a positive turning point because of the Government's transparency efforts on the economic and social consequences of this agreement – they seem to be positive for our country, contrary to what the sorrowful minds who saw in it the source of a thousand ills for our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u109	The responsible minds!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u110	Republican spirits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u111	The Government's transparency efforts will now have to be verified in terms of the quality of the impact assessment that will accompany the ratification bill, as well as in the evaluation and negotiation of future agreements. This motion for a resolution is also important in that it supports the ambitious trade policy agenda of the President of the Republic and the European Union. I am talking about an ambitious agenda because it appears back from this stumbling block of history where the United States, once architects and guarantors of the international system, is now the guarantors of the international system. We must be aware that this old world – built on multilateralism and the will of the peoples to speak to each other so as not to plunge back into darkness – which we have sometimes thought in the West that it was immutable, unmovable and insubmersible, may soon be no longer. Thus, while the United States chooses to close itself, breaking the trans-Pacific partnership agreement, which Barack Obama has patiently drafted and renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement – NAFTA – as if it were responsible for all their evils, Europe has chosen to take the opposite path. Similarly, while the US chooses to punish its allies just as hard as its opponents by imposing an increase in taxes on steel and aluminum imports, Europe, for its part, chooses to block and react while maintaining an essential attribute of its DNA since 1945: multilateralism. Europe chose to remain faithful to its history after the Second World War, aware that whenever it saw the world smaller, narrower and smaller than it was, it paid for the consequences. Moreover, its ambitious trade agenda allows it to consider maintaining an economic power status that is not subject to globalization. Europe has always been at the heart of international trade. It must encourage and promote it, while at the same time making it evolve. It must maintain its position as the world's leading economic power, in order to lay down rules on the world market and ensure that they are more respected. It must not bow to China's new silk roads, which divides its partners and places them under its control. It is thanks to the ambitious trade agenda that it has given itself and because it will remain a major economic power that Europe will be able to influence the great transformations of our world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u112	Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u113	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The climate emergency forces us to change the way we trade, trade and conduct our economy. Trade agreements are an essential driver of this change. That is why we support the Union's trade agenda, without denying our values, principles and requirements, which are precisely reflected in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u114	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u115	The MODEM Group supports the motion for a resolution. It's necessary. First of all, it reaffirms the place of Parliament – and therefore of the citizen debate – in the process of drawing up trade agreements. Of course, the European Parliament enjoys the same democratic legitimacy as ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u116	Not exactly the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u117	However, the question here is the relationship between the National Assembly and our government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u118	Amend the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u119	It is a question of avoiding the absurd situation we experienced during the negotiation of the CETA:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u121	... President Sarkozy accepted a negotiating mandate, then President Hollande validated the final agreement, which was ratified by the European Parliament. We are therefore debating it at the end of the chain, once the train has passed – as I was saying recently to the farmers in my constituency – in the context of a national debate on a setback.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u122	And the same applies to every treaty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u123	I welcome – and thank our dear colleague Christian Hutin for having done so before me – the work carried out under the aegis of Marielle de Sarnez, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as the momentum she has been able to give him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u124	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u125	I am glad to hear you confirm it, Mr Hutin, because if I had been the only one to pay this tribute, you would have suspected me – quite rightly, moreover – of not being objective. I also welcome the new practices that you have introduced, Secretary of State. Under the demanding look of the commission, you have always responded present, ahead of each European Council, so that we can dialogue about your negotiating mandate, the topics discussed and the position of the Government. This is a new method. Having, recently again, spoken extensively with some of our German counterparts, I am able to point out that Angela Merkel is going to the Bundestag before each European Council, in order to dialogue with Members about her negotiating mandate and the objectives she has set herself. In doing so, it has introduced a practice which is essentially taken up and endorsed in this motion for a resolution. It reaffirms our commitment to a dialogue leading up to the decisions, and not only after the train has passed. This motion for a resolution is also necessary in view of the challenges of sustainable development. In terms of short circuits and sustainable development, it will always be absurd to raise a cow in Canada, kill it there, deliver edible pieces to Europe by boat and deliver them to Rungis before transporting them to the Strasbourg hotel market and then to the supermarket located at the level of the tram stop Schluthfeld, in front of my parliamentary permanence! That's absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u126	And the cow of Strasbourg, where is she going?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u127	In Kyoto!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u128	The question is, therefore, whether we should opt for an extreme model – curling up and closing our borders – in order to favour the absolute short circuit, or whether – as in politics – we prefer to place the cursor in its right place. We in the MODEM Group believe that another way is possible, namely to conclude agreements for transparent, regulated and responsible trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u129	[[Smile]] It's like a communist speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u130	In this case, this is not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u131	In a few minutes, unfortunately, I cannot elaborate as much as I would like. But with regard to transparency, our dialogue with the Government contributes to that. In the area of regulation, the new generation agreements are a step forward. As for the requirement of responsibility, particularly with regard to the conformity of trade agreements with the challenges of sustainable development, there is obviously something to be reinvented. We strongly support the position of the French Government that the free trade agreement is a tool, in particular to promote the Paris climate agreement, and even to make compliance with it subject to an additional level of requirement. Indeed, when we sign a free trade agreement with a developed country, the requirement for sustainable development must be even stronger. One might imagine that every new stage in trade with developed countries would result in an even more drastic limitation of the consequences that the transport of goods, for example, can have on the environment. In any event, it is a fundamental trend to consider trade agreements as opportunities to anchor sustainable development in international trade. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The National Assembly must address the issue of free trade. We are doing so today, and the members of the MODEM Group are delighted to do so. We will vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u132	Mr Alain Tourret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u133	A radical left-wing Normand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u134	No trade agreement really bears fruit if it is not part of the intellectual and cultural proximity of the parties, as well as in their willingness to live together. With Japan, we have traversed a cloudless area, characterized by exceptional intellectual relations, for the past 140 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u135	Without clouds? What about World War II?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u136	Last year, we inaugurated the "Japanese 2018" cultural season. This great moment has made it possible to measure how much we, Japanese and French, have shared cultural interests since Van Gogh. This preamble is intended to remind us of how close we are to our Japanese friends. I am very pleased to say – in the presence of the Ambassador of Japan, who is in the stands – that we have a cloudless friendship with this country. This must be reinforced by economic and trade ties that can determine the action of each individual. Japan is the world's third largest economic power, France the fifth largest. In many respects, however, we have found that it is impossible to build up our capacity to match, since tariffs, taxes and barriers in general are too strong. We have therefore decided to remove barriers to trade, in favour of a globalization that is useful for peoples and nations, and in France for those who will be able to benefit from it. We have decided to move closer to Japan on several points. I am elected from a rural constituency of Calvados. Thanks to the agreement we are debating, products such as camembert, wine – of which France has a third of the market share – milk and agri-food products in general will benefit from the removal of barriers, in a single year, to the tune of EUR 1 billion. [[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the SOC, GDR and FI groups]] It is argued that the agreement will defuse the possibilities of the economy to the detriment of those who work. That's exactly the opposite! It offers us the ability to conquer markets in Japan. Why do you oppose it, ladies and gentlemen? I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u137	Ah, friendship between peoples!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u138	Here comes the Soviet discourses!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u139	It's a Republican speech! It's different!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u140	Stalin was a Republican!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u141	What about the planet?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u142	This Republican speech...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u143	Is characterized by balance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u144	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I want only one thing: that we have the opportunity to strengthen our strengths! As far as our relationship with Japan is concerned, we are strong. We trust Japan. On the other hand, the Americans are retreating and retreating everywhere. Why don't we take advantage of this extraordinary opportunity to get closer to our Japanese friends and build a strong and balanced relationship? I say this to the Ambassador of Japan: I have full confidence in the relations that we have thus promoted between our two countries. This is an exceptional opportunity in a European context. Fifteen days ago, I was invited by an important association to discuss with French companies working in Japan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u145	I hope Mrs. Deontologist was informed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u146	There's nothing like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u147	Eight thousand French companies work there. Among them are large companies such as Alstom and Renault, but also many SMEs, all of which have said how much the agreement offers them the opportunity to conquer markets in Japan. That's what I believe! [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs de Sarnez, Mr Maire, you have worked well in drawing up the motion for a resolution. We will move forward, in the interests of Europe, France and Japan, and therefore of the world economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u148	And capital!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u149	On the whole of the motion for a resolution, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u150	This is indeed an important moment. Jacques Maire mentioned earlier the five small minutes of speaking time available to him. In fact, the work to which I pay tribute has been carried out since the beginning of the legislature. As a matter of international trade, your Assembly has taken full account of this, through a renewed and renewed work in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which the President has shown a strong ambition to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u151	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u152	It has, it seems to me, made it possible to ensure that these subjects, sometimes very technical and a little arduous,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u153	We make it political, don't worry, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u154	By the way, we are very happy to have you today, after being insulted by one of your colleagues last week!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u155	... which are not systematically the subject of public debate, are now entitled to vote in the Chamber. That deserved to be stressed. Today, your assembly pronounces itself under article 34-1 of the Constitution. It seems to me that this is everything but a verbiage. This possibility, offered by the 2008 constitutional reform, allows us to ensure that the views of the national Parliament are listened to – and read – in Brussels and elsewhere. Moreover, the presence of members of the diplomatic corps in the stands shows that the speeches of each other will not remain without consequences. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will not only be read and heard in Brussels and in the European capitals, but also that you will be listened to. Promoting a more regulated and transparent free trade every day – according to President Waserman – is indeed a shared concern on all benches. There has been a lot of progress in this area, Mr. President Mélenchon. You mentioned the fact that the negotiating mandate was not put on the table in 2012 for Japan. Well, in September 2017, our engagement led to the publication of negotiating mandates, including the one with Japan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u156	We've helped you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u157	This debate therefore reflects in my view the special interest which the National Assembly attaches to the European Union's trade policy. We have the opportunity to discuss this very regularly upstream of the Councils of European Trade Ministers. An informal meeting is to be held Friday in Bucharest, and this debate is also an opportunity for me to hear your requests and to present some of the guidelines that we intend to submit to our counterparts. As the President of Sarnez said, this is a key moment for the European Union. We need more than ever to have political and legal tools to ensure that this commercial power is not a paper tiger but is respected. At the end of the European deadlines in the coming months, we will have to define a new strategic agenda for the Union. In a world characterized by the return of powers, certain policies deserve to be adapted. It has been seen in the field of competition; We see this in the field of trade: we are a certain number to advocate for an aggiornamento that will allow us to move towards this just exchange which must not be simply a word without real content. That is true, the common commercial policy is the corollary of the single market; It is a pillar of European integration. It is also, beyond the ability to conquer new markets, a way to promote standards, rules, values that we believe in, as Olga Givernet recalled. We must invest political capital both in the conclusion of these agreements and in their framework, but also in the preservation of a multilateral trading system. It is clear that the WTO is being jeopardized by unilateral American decisions and that unfortunately the foundation of principles on which commercial multilateralism is based is no longer self-evident for some of our historic partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u158	It's better to defend him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u159	The idea that a rules-based international system is the best guarantee of our security is no longer obvious to all. It is therefore the responsibility of France and the European Union to propose strong decisions to adapt WTO policies and negotiating methods to world developments. For example, we need to get from our Chinese friends changes in their grant policy or intellectual property. This is a highlight of Parliament's greater involvement in these trade policy debates. Several of you have referred to the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the EU-Singapore agreement, which has indeed drawn a dividing line between what is exclusive jurisdiction and what is subject to joint jurisdiction. We have obtained that decisions are made on a case-by-case basis, while some want them to be consistently pure trade agreements. We are not giving up the prospect of signing joint agreements again in the future. If one day an agreement was to be reached on MERCOSUR – I can tell you that we are defending our red lines on foot: there is no question of bracing any track whatsoever – the French Parliament would naturally have to vote. With regard to Parliament's arrangements for association, the Action Plan on CETA, drawn up with the latter, has made it possible to define an ever-higher ambition in this area. As you know, a monitoring table on the implementation of this agreement is available online and updated every six months. We have to be accountable: the word "accountability" is not a big word...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u160	He's not French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u161	... and it is important that you can monitor the implementation of this plan. A few words also on the informal Foreign Affairs Council trade format to be held Friday in Bucharest. The debates on 22 February will be dominated by discussions on negotiating mandates between the European Union and the United States. The European Union has been working for several months to define the scope of constructive dialogue with the United States in order to promote a return to normalcy, i.e. to avoid the threat of further unilateral measures. From 25 July, President Trump and President Juncker acted a form of de-escalation. All this technical work today deserves to be analysed. There are avenues for a positive agenda that respects the European red lines. We want to ensure that there are very explicit clauses to test the good faith of the United States. There will be no continuation of negotiations in the event of unilateral measures on the automobile and there will be no conclusion of negotiations without withdrawal by the United States of its unilateral measures on steel and aluminium. Following the EU-US Joint Declaration of 25 July, the Commission proposed to the Council on 18 January two negotiating mandates – both public – one for a tariff agreement limited to industrial products and the other for a mutual recognition agreement between conformity assessment bodies. As the President of the Republic reminded the United Nations General Assembly, France will not conclude any major free trade agreement with a country that does not respect the Paris climate agreement. The proposed negotiation is therefore limited to a tariff agreement and targeted regulatory cooperation. Let us be consistent to the end: I would only see the benefits of also abrogating the previous TTIP mandate – these mandates cannot be applied indefinitely. It is therefore not a new TTIP, which would cover, for example, public procurement, dispute settlement, agriculture. We have made it very clear that agriculture is excluded from the field. The mandate is very circumscribed and we naturally seek to protect French and European interests – you have seen the conditions that we put in place. Furthermore, we are prepared to take retaliatory measures if the United States adopts tariff measures against imports of cars from the European Union. We would use all the means permitted under WTO law to safeguard our interests. We must be lucid in the face of the great time that has been set for several months on international trade. At this informal Council, we will also take stock of the proposals made by the European Union for the modernisation of the World Trade Organisation. I would like to recall France's wish for the European Commission to continue and step up its efforts. Regrettably, the United States has undertaken a series of actions to destabilize the institution, whether it is the blocking of the dispute settlement system or the series of unilateral measures taken in the name of national security, in contravention of the fundamental rules of the WTO. We are concerned that this strategy will ultimately lead to the WTO being emptied of its substance, while, on the contrary, the institution, its disciplines and its capacity to enforce them should be strengthened to address a number of the current trade imbalances. Once again, we must guarantee to our peoples that if the rules are not respected, sanctions will be imposed. It is essential to combat distortive business practices. As we put the fight against inequality at the heart of the French G7 presidency, we must also put an end to such practices. I would also like to return, Madam President, to the economic partnership with Japan, mentioned in the resolution and by a number of speakers. Its entry into force on 1 February is good news and rewards the Union's continued efforts. This agreement is very ambitious, since 99% of EU exports to Japan must be liberalised in the long run. In particular, the agreement offers increased opportunities for our agricultural and agri-food sectors, in particular for the dairy, wine-growing, swine and beef sectors. In particular, we will ensure that its implementation is exemplary, following the example of what we are doing with the free trade agreement with South Korea: due to questions about the fairness of its implementation, consultations have been opened. If, at the end of the talks, we were not convinced by the South Korean argument, they could lead to a questioning of preferences. We see that we have an arsenal that should be used. It is also important to ensure the proper implementation of the agreements as well as their conclusion. That is why France has always advocated the establishment of a European commercial prosecutor to ensure compliance with the agreements. Companies must now seize the opportunities offered by this agreement, in particular SMEs, which account for 75% of French exports to Japan, as Mr Tourret pointed out. External trade actors are all mobilized to provide business information in Paris and in the region. We have also posted information on all our sites. Presentations are organized by Bpifrance and Business France, among others. There are many opportunities to grow. That is true, we have not been able to achieve everything with regard to the link between trade and sustainable development through this agreement. First, it was not possible to make the chapter "sustainable development" effective against the dispute settlement mechanism...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u162	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u163	...even if France is still at the forefront of this fight within the European bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u164	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u165	Unfortunately, we are not alone in these forums...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u166	Yes, but France is France! She must be strong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u167	... and that is what makes today's debates and the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs so important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u168	We don't exist anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u169	You yourself must strive to convince your counterparts in the parliaments of the Twenty-Seven to bring more voluntary environmental messages to their governments. Similarly, we would like the Paris Agreement to be the subject of an essential clause of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u170	It's not really your priority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u171	It's something we care about. Our efforts have not been successful, but our ambition remains intact. That is why it is very important that these issues are at the heart of the European debate. There is an environmental awareness-raising process that must continue in our colleagues, friends and neighbours. In any case, know that we are not giving up. With regard, for example, to agreements that have provisionally entered into force – I am thinking of the agreement with Canada – we are very careful to ensure that the right to regulate states is not undermined by investment agreements concluded by the European Union. In recent months, we have worked with the European Commission to clarify how the CETA Joint Interpretation Mechanism is to be used. This will allow us to protect our legitimate public policies, particularly in the area of combating climate change. As far as the protection of our sectors is concerned, I have of course heard the demonstrations, on various banks, of the attachment to our agricultural sector. As we have done under the mandates for Australia and New Zealand, we continue to demand that the European negotiator take into account the cumulative impact of past and possibly future concessions in the conduct of negotiations. It's not nothing. It has been years since both have been fighting to ensure that any concessions take account of the economic and social reality of a sector. Today, we can say that we have made progress with these mandates, on which I know that your assembly is also working hard. Finally, I would like to return to the points of the resolution on European mechanisms for adjusting to globalisation or, more precisely – because that is what we need – the mechanisms to ensure that globalisation adjusts to what people want in trade. From this point of view, the resolution defended by Jacques Maire and his colleagues bears witness to a significant ambition. [[Walls on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We are here today at the end of this debate. Some have spoken of a kind of "Liturgy" with discussions that are similar and ongoing, but they have the merit of allowing all points of view to be expressed here, in Brussels and elsewhere in the world. Let us remember that one hundred and seventy years ago Karl Marx was excluded from the Brussels Economic Congress and that in 1848 he was led to write his speech on the question of free trade. Today, no one is excluded, everyone debate! I note, moreover, that President Mélenchon's conclusion is a little different from that of Marx, who, then, considered free trade as a necessary step towards the emergence of the social question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u172	That's what's happening right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u173	Karl Marx was right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u174	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any event, I thank all the groups for their involvement on this subject. Again, the fight continues in favour of a fairer, more transparent, more regulated exchange! Thank you for your contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u175	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u176	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u177	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State and ladies and gentlemen, for this intense debate which shows how much we need to speak on this issue. One year after the meeting proposed by France insoubted on CETA, we are discussing the trade agreement with Japan: the debate is progressing and it is taking place regularly. This is not a blow to the water but, as has been said, a process that begins with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and is rooted in it through the hearings held there, which will be extended in a few weeks with a European motion for a resolution by Olga Givernet on the next Australia-New Zealand agreement, and which must find its place in the political debate in the House. I am surprised that some, on the benches of the UDI-Agir groups, LR, find that it is not worth talking about even if it is important. If the discussion takes place in Brussels, it may also take place in Paris, in accordance with Community law. The demand, the expectations of the citizens are strong for national representation to assume its positions. This agreement is important because it involves a partnership with an essential country. I would like to thank Alain Tourret for having mentioned this in detail, many of us who have not done so: although this agreement is not exemplary from the point of view of the standards to which we can aspire, it nevertheless remains absolutely central with Japan, a partner who shares with us very great values in economic, social development and human rights. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This debate has been nourished and I confirm to you the commitment that is mine so that it is not a blow of sword in the water, so that week after week we are always present in this great commercial debate! The Group of the European People's Party calls for a vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u178	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u179	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which, for our Assembly, is an opportunity to speak. The challenge today is to avoid a disorder, a widening gap between our public opinions and the topic of international trade. It is in this place of citizen debate that we need to raise it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u180	To debate, and to decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u181	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] There is a correlation between the development of free trade, trade and international trade and the reduction of extreme poverty. Forty years ago, 2 billion people lived in conditions of extreme poverty; Today, there are 600 million. I know that correlation does not imply causality, we agree, but the MODEM Group considers the development of transparent, regulated and responsible international trade to be an issue and a challenge. This resolution will contribute to this by bringing its small stone to the building.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u182	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u183	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u184	I am pleased that the request made by Jean-Paul Lecoq and your servant was accepted to provide explanations of vote at the end of this important debate – it is not the Prince's act: jurisprudence exists! Thank you for your comments, Secretary of State. We are not really used to it, including last week with Mrs Loiseau, who felt that our conception of the Constitution was somewhat troubled and was not pleasant to any of the parliamentarians present in committee. This debate has been of a different kind. Believe it is difficult for parliamentarians to accept that they are nothing, or not much. I'm extremely angry. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union is decisive. Perhaps this is our last debate on an international trade treaty, unless resolutions are proposed. We who are a minority cannot do that much. This will therefore depend on the majority. This is an essential problem of national sovereignty! The new European economic doctrine becomes totalitarian, which, in our view, is extremely serious: we will no longer be able to discuss any economic treaty. I would like to draw your attention to this point. I thank Jacques Maire for having done so, for having taken the spotlight there, because it is essential, indispensable for French democracy. I have a great deal of respect for you, Mr Secretary of State: we must bring this up very high, beyond the minister responsible for European affairs, who says that the fools we are do not know the Constitution, etc. It is important to do so. Finally, this is the last time I will accept a minister's very late warning of his arrival at home – in this case at 1.57 p.m. – when I am in the Chamber and therefore cannot participate in the big debate. It is absolutely lamentable, shameful and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u185	It's not on purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u186	Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u187	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u188	You responded with your style, Mr. Secretary of State, and with great correction but, forgive me, without taking the least measure of the gravity of the issue. We totally disagree with what you said, with what you do. This disagreement concerns nothing less than the future of humanity. To paraphrase Marx, which you have quoted, free trade is exhausting the worker and nature: the main effects of greenhouse gases come precisely from this great move from the planet that you are pursuing, accentuating and justify. We gave you some arguments earlier. We talked about the future of whales. What do you think? Don't you see that this agreement – already endorsed, on which we are discussing only for form – does not offer any answer? That is the problem, on this very serious question: one third of the world economy, 40% of world trade, 600 million people concerned, and we are reduced to hearing you say: "Don't worry, we will be vigilant"! However, no action has been taken to stop the destruction of nature. What's left of us? This stand? We have spoken and will continue to do so in the public debate to say what is happening. No, CETA is not a good deal! It only accelerates the destruction of the planet. The free trade, which you praise, is deadly for economies, nature, peoples. The new agreement you are proposing is in the same direction. Then we will continue to be pedagogues, to say what it covers, to take the people to witness because, yes, he must be informed of what is happening. Our colleague Hutin said: this is where such important things should be decided!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u189	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u190	It takes time, it is necessary to put on the table, in the public debate, all the issues involved. However, we are reduced to a few hours of debate and to thank you for offering them to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u192	Of course, but what a difference in scale...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u193	It's unfortunate, but it's like that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u194	...between the fundamental stakes for the future of the planet and the reduced parliamentarians to thank for having been able to exchange a little! Whatever the final vote, it will not change anything. I do not believe that the presence of our Japanese friends to hear the expression of our strength of conviction is part of a balance of power. That is not how a large country must seriously discuss the nature of economic agreements! There is no question of saying that we do not want any more exchanges with the Japanese.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u195	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u196	The problem isn't here! It is a brotherly people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u197	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u198	It's about whether we want to accelerate the economic processes that lead the right planet into the wall! I repeat the words of President Mélenchon, quoting the Nicolas Hulot Foundation: this is simply the biggest "climate" trade agreement in history! The biggest "climate" trade deal in history! That is what the few we are about to vote for! For our part, we say no, resolutely no, and we will make it known! (Applause from the FI and SOC groups)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u199	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u200	It is good, it is even necessary that we can speak after you, Secretary of State, as you did not speak at the beginning of our work. You have almost announced the death of the WTO or, in any case, you have regretted its impotence. We are therefore tempted to ask you the question: what is France doing so that it is not so?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u201	Many proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u202	Not Europe, but France: what does it do? Here, in this Chamber, it has not been asked at any time by the representatives of the French people to discuss with you the issue of multilateralism and the WTO! Never – in any case not since the debate of this legislature! You say and you do, but we would like it to be transparent enough when it is so so that we are informed. Here, it is not simply a place for debate, it is a place where one must be able to decide according to the interests of our people. That's what the French parliament is all about! What happens at meetings of Heads of State, ministers, on a given subject, to prepare the treaties? What is France's word? We have discussed this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: what is France's word, what are the minutes, are they accessible to all citizens? Does the Head of State not say before us, before the people, that he defends our interests while accepting agreements contrary to the Paris climate agreement? What did he say? Did he say that France could not accept them or that business is business, so bad for the environment, we will sign this agreement? Last night, in front of the doors of the Ministry of the Environment, Brune Poirson was trying to convince young people...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u203	And Dunkirk tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u204	...that on the other side of the door, they had friends. If they are friends, they are not very brave because, a few hours later, they explained in the Chamber that they would not be able to incorporate the content of the Paris Agreement into the future treaties, since France is not strong enough for this. For my part, it seems to me that these young people have done well to get down on the street: perhaps it has given you the courage to make this kind of resolution. As far as the nature of the agreements is concerned, ultra-liberal agreements such as CETA pose a problem in terms of wages and social and environmental matters – subjects that, as you can see, are not at the heart of your priorities. It is good to have drafted a motion for a resolution, but that is not enough. If you want to reconcile the people with the political decisions that are taking place – and perhaps even with Europe – we must do better than that! If I were to write you down, Mr. Secretary of State, I might put you on average, because I often meet you in meetings and I know you're working a lot on post-CETA. However, the essential thing is not what can be done after the decision has been made, but what can be done before it is made!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u205	Both are important!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u206	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u207	The Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for this resolution, which marks a number of advances on important issues – at least it aims to achieve these advances. However, we do not look at the succession of treaties and the international openness with bliss: we know that, in the face of these international treaties, all matters remain open, starting with the control exercised by Parliament. On this point, it is abnormal that Parliament cannot defend national and regional interests, or can only do so indirectly. As far as environmental issues are concerned, they remain completely open, as the Treaty with Japan shows today. The same applies to the settlement of disputes, intellectual property or cultural exception. Above all, the issue of regulating international trade is in no way resolved. The WTO is failing, and it is out of the question of continuing to open the door without taking into account the fundamental interests of our businesses and our households, which is all too often the case at the moment. While it is undeniable that the liberal ideology of openness in itself leads to progress, it is only on condition that safeguards are put in place. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] We will therefore vote for this resolution, whose general tone is acceptable to us, but without any illusions, because we are concerned about the evolution of international trade and the way in which it is regulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u208	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u209	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 39 Number of votes cast 38 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 31 Against 7
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u210	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u211	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u212	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice (No. 1684) and of the draft organic law on strengthening the organisation of courts (No. 1685). The Conference of Presidents decided that these texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u213	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u214	Here we are at the end of a long journey that began over a year and a half ago. You are going to consider, for final reading, the bill on the programming and reform of the justice system, as well as the organic bill that accompanies it. These two texts are the legislative translation of a commitment made to the French by the President of the Republic during the 2017 campaign and then by the Prime Minister to the national representation in his general policy speech. To prepare for this reform, which I wanted to be broad and ambitious, I decided to open in October 2017 five judicial projects, dedicated to the improvement and simplification of civil and criminal procedures, the digital transformation, the adaptation of the judicial network, and the meaning and effectiveness of sentences. This wide-ranging consultation resulted in extremely concrete proposals based on the expectations of judicial actors on the ground. I am thinking in particular of the simplification of the criminal procedure, which has been built on the basis of the proposals made on the one hand by the police officers and gendarmes who ensure the safety of our fellow citizens as closely as possible, and on the other hand those which are indispensable for the judiciary. After collecting the findings of these projects, I launched a consultation with the judiciary, including judges, ministry staff, trade unions and lawyers, at the beginning of 2018. This concertation led me to make choices, to rule out solutions and to clarify provisions. I shall cite only one example, which is particularly important: I have not taken on board the proposals which have been made in the context of the construction projects on the territorial organisation of justice. I have always wanted to preserve and even strengthen local justice, because I have a deep conviction that, in the first instance, this proximity is one of the major assets of the public service of justice. After the time for consultation came the time for debate in Parliament. The assemblies had time to prepare for this debate. The text, tabled last April, was not considered in the Senate until October 2018. In parallel, the House has been able to carry out important substantive work and I would like to thank once again your two rapporteurs, Lætitia Avia and Didier Paris, who have always been attentive, demanding and imaginative partners. Much of the progress made in this reform has been made possible by them throughout the parliamentary debates. It is also thanks to the support of the two groups of the majority, led by Jean Terlier and Stéphane Mazars for La République en marche and Erwan Balanant and Laurence Vichnievsky for the Democratic and Related Movement. I would also like to commend the opposition groups that have defended their beliefs in a pluralist debate that has also made progress. The National Assembly and the Senate could not agree on this reform, and that is why we are now in final reading, pursuant to Article 45 of the Constitution. It should be recalled that at first reading, the Senate had chosen to move away from most of the proposals made by the Government – proposals subsequently supported by the majority of the National Assembly. While your assembly has supported the proposals made by the Government, it has also largely evolved the text on important issues, and I have supported this approach. With this in mind, the Assembly has preserved a number of advances adopted by the Senate. This is the case with guarantees for online services, which will not be able to offer legal consultations without the assistance of a lawyer. The same applies to the strengthening of platform obligations. I could also mention the abolition of compulsory representation in the joint courts of rural leases, or the inclusion in the law of the conditions for testing the procedure for the review of maintenance, where the Government originally requested an enabling law. In addition to these points, further developments have been made to the text in new reading by the National Assembly. There are many of them, but I will cite only a few as examples. I would first like to refer to the time limit imposed on a victim to file a civil suit before the investigating judge following a complaint left unanswered: this time limit has been kept to three months, allowing the public prosecutor to ask the investigating judge for a further three months in order to continue the ongoing investigations. As regards alternatives to prosecution, the current limitation of the scope of application of the criminal composition to offences punishable by imprisonment of up to five years has been maintained. In addition, elements designed to better regulate the role of the family allowance fund have been adopted for the experiment that the bill proposes to open with regard to the revision of maintenance payments. I could also mention the provisions which have clarified certain points concerning the distribution of specialized disputes between courts on the basis of local projects. I am also thinking of the consultation of the councils of jurisdiction, now provided for by law. These were often requests from legal professionals and were responded to positively, as had been the case on several other issues at the time of the bill's development. The text has therefore evolved very significantly from its original version, reflecting a willingness to listen that cannot be denied, unless it absolutely wants to ignore reality. I know that these developments, however desired by many players in the judiciary, have failed to alleviate all fears. Some would have liked to see reform abandoned, preferring the status quo. This is not the choice of this Government and of this majority – and it will never be his choice. Rather than reform at a discount, we wanted to maintain a high level of ambition for only one reason: because we owe it to the people. They expect more legible, more efficient and faster procedures: we are proposing them throughout this text. I am thinking in particular of the civil procedure which should, for example, allow the judge to focus on his core business and simplify access to the courts. The litigants expect justice to protect them. This is the whole meaning of the reform of the criminal procedure, with more legible texts, simpler to apply for investigators and prosecutors, while maintaining the fundamental guarantees under the supervision of the judge of liberty and detention, the statutory judge of the seat. It is also to better protect our fellow citizens that we create the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office. The litigants also expect better consideration to be given to the victims. That is what we do by creating the judge for the compensation of victims of terrorist acts – JIVAT – a single jurisdiction that will allow better and faster compensation to victims of terrorism. The same is true with the online complaint and the experiment of the departmental criminal court: thanks to these provisions the filing of complaints, for example for victims of sexual violence, will be facilitated and rapes will be tried for what they are, i.e. crimes. The litigants are also waiting for offenders to be punished firmly and not recidivism. That is the whole meaning of the reform of sentences, especially short sentences, contained in this text. Those for whom the prison is a necessity must be sentenced to prison sentences that will be actually carried out. On the other hand, the shorter prison sentences should be replaced by autonomous sentences such as home detention under electronic supervision or community service. With these sanctions, which will no longer be merely alternative sentences, imprisonments will be avoided that desocialize people and too often pave the way for recidivism. The litigants finally expect justice close to them, simple access, effective, in a word, human justice. The creation of the judicial court will provide a single door for litigants without the closure – I repeat – of a single place of justice. As for the distribution of a few specialized litigations between courts where there are several by department, it will be the translation of local projects drawn up with all relevant actors represented in the courts' councils. In fact, it is only a matter of bringing together a few contentious competences where this appears necessary in order to respond as best as possible to those who are waiting for their disputes to be tried effectively, fairly and quickly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At the beginning of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, I recalled the progress made. It has been a long but valuable one because it has allowed us collectively to enrich and, I believe, improve the text of this reform of justice. But it would be wrong to consider that we are coming to the end of this process and of this ambition. You have yet to consider these two texts for final reading and to adopt them. Then will come the time of application. Be assured that I will use all my energy, together with the services of the Chancery, to make these texts a concrete and rapid improvement in the lives of the litigants as well as that of all the actors in the judicial world. It is also with your support and commitment that this will be possible. And for that, I know I can count on you as you can count on me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u215	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u216	We meet again to debate, this time in final reading, the bill on programming and justice reform. This work, as you know, began more than a year ago with the works of justice. This last episode therefore devotes the outcome of a dense and high-quality work, up to the height of an ambitious reform. I take this last opportunity to speak in the rostrum during the examination of this text to say how proud I am to have defended this reform and how much I enjoyed working in good intelligence, both with the minister and with all of you, ladies and gentlemen, with particular attention for my dear co-rapporteur Didier Paris, as well as for the binôme of Jean Terlier and Stéphane Mazars. Far from me the idea, of course, of forgetting the opposition – we have, if not mistaken, adopted amendments from all sides and, in any case, debates of quality have allowed us to express our various positons in the respect of each one. We have all affirmed our commitment to our justice and our willingness to see it with a larger budget, which is done with an increase of almost 25% in the appropriations for justice to EUR 8.3 billion. No government had so far shown such ambition for the justice budget – it should be stressed. As we resume our debates, which have often been very technical, let us recall the heart of this bill: the justiciable. It is for him, and for him alone, that we legislate here. However, during the second reading, the Senate largely detrigued the text and thereby reversed the mechanism on key points designed to protect the justiciable, such as the development of the culture of amicable dispute resolution – with a text improving existing legislation and encouraging a paradigm shift in dispute resolution. It is in order to allow litigants to take a step aside in the resolution of their disputes and to arrive before the judge only when it is necessary that we propose to you to vote on Article 2. By deleting section 3, the Senate chose to maintain the status quo at the expense of litigants. It is in order for the litigant to be better oriented to quality and supervised online legal service platforms that we propose to vote on Article 3, as well as Article 19 on the open data of court decisions, to which we have, on the basis of the text proposed by the Senate, provided substantial protections which he unfortunately removed. The Senate even went so far as to go back to a provision that should have been unanimous: to restore the dignity and full citizenship of the protected adults by allowing them to vote, unite and divorce without the prior consent of the judge. It is therefore not without pride that we propose that you vote on Article 8. One hundred per cent of the litigants have been confronted with divorce, theirs or that of knowledge, and few of those who, in this regard, welcome the quality of our judicial system. It's a plague for families in a heartbreaking moment. It is in order to reduce the delays in divorce proceedings while maintaining the procedural guarantees and thus to better accompany the litigants in this difficult moment of their lives that we will propose to vote on Article 12. Now let's talk about the family allowance fund – CAF. In all cases where the revision of alimony is abnormally heavy and does not allow for an effective adjustment to the evolution of income, it is to enable mothers to obtain a prompt response, for their daily lives and that of their children, that we will vote for Article 6. I would remind you that this is an experiment in a handful of departments and that our mission, ladies and gentlemen, is to find solutions when the system is emboldened. Finding solutions with the actors, with the first concerned on the ground, is also the method proposed by the minister for the territorial organization. The reform we will be voting on is not a reform of the small steps. Nor is it a question of offering you an umpteenth judicial card to replace another one. No, it is a method, based on flexibility, coherence, expertise, knowledge of the actors on the ground; It's a way to think differently about our judicial organization, to heal its wounds and prevent them from reopening tomorrow. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In the end, this reform may not be the Great Evening of Justice, but the dawn of justice tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u217	I call Mr Didier Paris, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u218	We turn to the last straight line of these texts, which, it must be acknowledged, have not been facilitated by the length of their examination and by the way in which it has been cut. Yet their strong axes did not deviate. They are always based on the same objective of more efficient and faster justice, of community and quality justice, of a public service better connected to the expectations of the users. As you pointed out, the ordinary bill, Minister, proposes an ambitious reform. I must admit, at this final stage, a certain difficulty in understanding the attitude of the Senate, which, no more or less, has been limited to resuming its original text, without any consideration for the substantive work carried out at first and second reading by the Assembly. A little as if his vision of justice was frozen and the debate between our two institutions could not bear fruit. Although there are certainly many points of disagreement, our main thrust has always been to find a median path between the objective of simplification and access to justice on the one hand, and the necessary guarantee of rights on the other. That is how we analyse the criticisms, and we have admitted that we do not extend the scope of criminal coercion. In the same way, we have changed the time limits from which a victim can file a civil suit, returning to a period of three months, unless specifically requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is therefore not in any way a question of limiting the rights of victims and their counsel, but, on the contrary, of providing them, where it is useful, with a more comprehensive investigation and of enabling the investigating judge to have more substantiated factual and legal elements. I note, on this point, that one of the only new amendments in the Senate – perhaps the only one – is to give this power of extension to the dean of investigating judges, an amazing position since at this stage only the prosecutor's office is likely to assess the actual needs of the investigation, before public action is initiated. In the end, we are determined, not displeased by the spellers, to change our justice system, to enable it to better protect the weakest, to respond more effectively to the many new challenges. Our society is changing under digital pressure. Whether we like it or not, it's a reality. We want justice to take the best of it and to remove from it, of course, the worst of it – and we are unfortunately not in a position at the moment to see it – that it also ensures its digital turn, that it relies on it to simplify its operating methods and procedures. This is a fundamental issue that the legal professions have been working on for a long time. This technical and operational distance must be removed. It will be done through the very exceptional means that are available and through our political commitment. At the same time, it will benefit from the digital coverage plan decided by the Government to ensure that access to the judge is not unequal or weakened by a territorial divide that is still too marked. We also want justice which, finally, no longer makes the prison the alpha and the omega of the criminal response, which continues to individualize the sentences while ensuring their effectiveness, which takes full account of the other criminal responses, which are themselves renovated by this text. We still want justice that protects against a terrorist threat that is still so present, in the face of organised crime, but also in the face of daily crime that destroys the social bond and undermines trust in our institutions. That is the whole meaning, at one end of the spectrum, of the creation of the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, and, at the other end, of the strengthening of the flat-rate fine. We want justice that puts victims at the forefront of its concerns, that connects them more easily to investigators, that allows, in particular through the online complaint, to better uncover attacks on people – including in cases of insults – that empowers them to act, defend themselves effectively, and obtain redress for small attacks as well as for the most serious – I am thinking of the creation of the JIVAT. We also want the juvenile criminal justice system, which everyone agrees has achieved a degree of saturation despite the incredible efforts of professionals, to benefit from this wind of renewal. On this subject, we must stop pretending that Parliament's powers are being eroded, because it is the opposite that is being proposed to you by the authorization to make orders. These will be worked between the Executive and Parliament, with the professionals. For example, next Wednesday, the Law Committee will consider the conclusions of the excellent information report on juvenile justice presented by Mr Jean Terlier and Mrs Cécile Untermaier. In addition, the ordinances will not be enforced until we have decided by the ratification law. I do not despair that the contemptors of this project abandon their hasty interpretations, their approximations, and that they recognize the advances made that maintain the balance between the protection of rights and the effectiveness of our justice. Today, therefore, we are given to engage our justice in modernity in all these aspects, while at the same time ensuring that the rights of all litigants are guaranteed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister and her services for the excellent quality of our reports and the extremely constructive way in which we have been able to work together on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u219	I have received a motion from Mr.Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposed 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill. Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u220	Now is the time for a final reading of this text, and a final motion to reject it. Why would you tell me? What's the point? Perhaps to allow you once again to listen to those you do not want to hear: the people who are concerned, the victims who wonder how they will be treated, the local elected officials who wonder about the future offer of justice in their territories, and the justice professionals who panic, aware that they are the catastrophic nature of the measures contained in the bill. All of you have constantly drawn your attention to the dangers that this reform poses to our judicial system. Your mutism towards us could have been offset by listening to justice professionals; It wasn't. To be in the air of time and in communication, so important to your mentor, you could have made this major subject for our democracy, this subject vital to our life in society, integrate the great debate that is currently agitating the whole of our territory. We could, for a time, have set aside this economic-reform text to listen to those who suffer, those who practice, those who do justice in our country. It would have taken a little humility, a little reflection, and a lot of common sense to do justice tomorrow. All this would have been great, but I have no doubt that it will not be. We understand that you have the right, the right and the right alone, and that if you fail to convince us, you will submit to us. This reform, you have never stopped saying it: it is good! Good, yes, no doubt, for Bercy. Good, yes, for the savings desired but not assumed. But for justice, for proximity, for public peace, for the victims, do you seriously think that it is good? This speech is not a reflection of a political position. You have seen throughout the debates that, from one bench to another in the House, positions were often the same, and that opinions converged. How many times have we had the opportunity to tell you that you have finally succeeded in bringing together all the legal professionals in the same fight? Well, you have also, often or almost always, gathered around the same speech, the whole of this House, with the exception of the silent majority! Like you, I heard the alarm cry of the President of the Conference of Batniers. Like you, I have read the chronicles, press releases and other positions of the magistrates' unions, and I have heard the concerns of the clerks. During the judicial years that I was able to attend, I heard disillusioned heads of court find that, for the first time in a long time, they had no magistrates to set up, because the positions to be filled were not filled, or, for example, because of the normal career development of judges, that a trial court with three judges would have only one. "We are transferring staff from other services that are impacted, such as the police court. Some services will be slowed down or even closed. "From a computer point of view, we are totally ridiculous. We're talking about a digital revolution, but frankly, we're next to the plate, we don't have the means. These are statements from the heads of courts! Again, would it not have been preferable to give our judicial system the means of its normal functioning? I have no doubt that, at the end of this final reading, we are making the same disillusioned observation as that made by the Senate a few days ago. Without illusion, we will encounter the obtuse explanations that honourable senators have been confronted with and that we have known well throughout this text. One time, Madam Minister, on the very first day of the bill's consideration, you wanted to be a snow queen! The one that controls snow and ice, the one that can plunge everyone into winter torpor. This snow queen, you wanted her, these are your own words, liberating, protecting and unifying. Freer, you are, you have proved it to us. The prison sentence will be no longer, or it will be only an exception, to the detriment of the victims, the safety of our fellow citizens and the well-being of living together. You are also a liberator, for you no longer oblige our fellow citizens to resort to the judge, who is the only guarantee of justice for men, by men, and for men. You are, of course, protective of Bercy's interests and public expenditure, a commendable position if it were clearly assumed and announced. But you are not protective of the victims, who will be deprived of benevolent and professional listening when they have to expose the facts that they have had to endure. In this regard, it is amusing to note that recent figures from the Ministry of the Interior point out that in 2018 we had a real upsurge in complaints of harassment and sexual assault, proof if this is the case that the current system is working well, and that, with the presence of trained and listening agents, we have found the means perfectly sufficient and adapted to the needs of our society. You are also not protective of victims who, on the pretext of a simpler judgement, will see in particular the acts of rape disqualified from the scope of crimes. After all, why make life so complicated with this? These same victims, if they have been forgotten to inform them of the date of the hearing, will see their claims dealt with outside the criminal hearing, as if the reparation were only a matter of money. Finally, you wanted to be snow queen to unite; That's what you finally did. I said: all the legal professionals, all the associations of litigants, all the local elected representatives are united against your reform project. Today, you have a last chance not to make this mistake, not to vote on this text, to build together in dialogue, listening and respect, the foundations of what the justice of tomorrow could be. You have expressed the wish to see the great debate enter the prisons, a laudable intention if any. You moved around and organized a prison consultation. At a time when our fellow citizens are constantly criticizing the policy of your Government, demanding more changes, but also more listening, what have you proposed that this debate be held in the courts, in the orders, in the associations, in the local authorities? Do we have to think that, for you, the litigants, the judges, the clerks, the lawyers are not worthy of participating in this debate? History sometimes shows us that taking a little more time than originally planned, planning a little more consultation, and showing a little more humility is not just bad. If the timetable you had set had been respected, there is no doubt that the reform of the Constitution would be adopted to date. However, the recent statements and positions of the President of the Republic alone prove that this would not have been a good thing. Why not draw inspiration from this situation, and apply it to justice, if it is our institutions? You want modern justice, "refocusing" on the judge and his office, "faster" and "more effective" justice, these are your words. We want justice for stability and social peace. We want equal justice for all throughout the country. We want justice of proximity and humane, free and accessible to all. We want judges who judge, courts with the means to operate them, victims who are listened to and taken into account for what they are, not just as users of a public service. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I have no doubt that, even on the basis of the text you proposed, we could have discussed and reached agreements, but that was not the case. That is why today, without great illusions, I agree, but always with the same conviction – it is probably even strengthened – we are calling for the prior rejection of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u221	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u222	Mr President, I must admit that I am divided at the end of your speech. Your entire conclusion shows that we have the same desire for justice that we both call human, and I do not see what in the bill would be contradictory to that will. On the contrary, the text contains local courts, whose powers will be strengthened, and an improvement in the physical reception of litigants. I do not see how there would be any differences between us from this point of view. You want effective justice; So do we. That is why, among so many other subjects, I have proposed the division between a few courts of certain specialized or technical disputes – we have already discussed this. We have many agreements, honourable Member, but we also have disagreements, and I confess – you will forgive me for this familiarity – that my arms fall upon me when I intend to repeat for the umpteenth time statements that you present as true, whereas, I believe, throughout our debates, I have constantly provided you with evidence, in any case by writing the text, that you are wrong in your analyses. How can you say this bill is made for Bercy? How can you say that when the Government proposes to increase the justice budget by 25 per cent and there are 6,500 job creations? How can you say that Bercy's hand... In any case, it is indeed there, considering that the Government has given justice the means to perform its office perfectly. So this is a perfectly inaccurate assertion that I cannot ignore. How can you say that there are no more magistrates in our courts? Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u223	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u224	That's impossible! It's physically impossible! This year, in the 2019 budget, 100 additional judicial posts were distributed across the courts, beyond the replacement of retired persons. And I am not talking about the ninety-two legal assistants or other staff assigned to complement the courts. How can you say such a thing? That's not right! I want to talk and talk to you, I understand that you are not in favour of experimenting with family allowances, I can hear it, but do not say fundamentally inaccurate things, which are untruths. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] One last word: you say that I am the imprecations of my mentor... Member of Parliament, I don't have a mentor. We have, you and I, a President of the Republic, it's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u225	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u226	I confess, Mr Savignant, that by listening to you defend this fifth motion of rejection, I end up experiencing a form of weariness. Each time, we are entitled to the same chorus rhythmic by counter-truths. To describe as dangerous a reform that is, in fact, simply ambitious, you put forward several arguments. So, in your opinion, it would be dictated by Bercy with the desire to save money. The minister has already refuted this assertion, but I will do so with even greater vigour: while the justice budget will increase by almost 25%, that 6500 jobs will be created and that 500 million euros will be spent on digitising the public service of justice, it is abnormal, and even irresponsible, to claim that this programming bill could be dictated by financial considerations. Similarly, you imply, failing to say so, that there would be, behind this reform, a Machiavellic plan designed to close down a number of places of justice. We have, however, repeated this to you, dear colleague: there will be no closure. The merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of instance is administrative and will be carried out in the interest of the litigants, so that they do not have to worry about which court to turn. Finally, you refer to the introduction of the online complaint to conclude that the victims will no longer be heard by the judicial police officers. Another misconception, because you are well aware that the filing of a complaint in dematerialized form is not exclusive to the traditional procedure. This is only an additional opportunity for those most at ease with new technologies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] My dear colleague, for the fifth time, the La République en marche Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u227	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u228	The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this motion of rejection which was presented to us by our colleague, Mr Savignant, even if some of the elements of his speech do not correspond to our analysis. On the budgetary side, in particular, there is a disagreement between our two groups. However, you cannot ignore, Madam Minister, even blinded by a natural enthusiasm for who has drafted and presented such a bill here, that it causes real trauma in a number of provincial jurisdictions. The issue of platforms, for example, is not anodizing. Mr Terlier cannot simply say that the text draws the consequences of the digitisation of our society while ignoring our comments on the certification of platforms. Similarly, the majority makes a mistake when it neglects our daily warnings about the merger of jurisdictions in our territories, or when it fails to address the issue of the 1945 order. However, we remain available to continue the work of reflection because, like you, the minister, we are convinced of the need to rethink justice. I would therefore point out in advance that our group will also vote on the motions for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u229	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u230	It is true that at a time when we are approaching the final stage in the consideration of a text that has already been the subject of lengthy debate, one may wonder why a new motion of rejection has been tabled. But I consider – and the two previous interventions support me in this view – that this is the only way for minority groups to make you understand this: the concerns that this programming bill, which starts with a good intention, has aroused among legal professionals as well as among litigants are still not removed, despite the discussions that have taken place in both chambers and the amendments made to the text. The minority groups in the National Assembly were also concerned that the many proposals they had made by way of amendment had not been favourably received by the Government or the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u231	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u232	That is true, for the most part, of our group. The motions of procedure are therefore a last opportunity for us to try to alter the meaning of these two texts. This is particularly the case in the digital field: without the preparation of courts and tribunals, the reform will only have the effect of aggravating the digital divide in our country. The IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u233	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u234	The La France insoumée group will vote for this motion to reject beforehand because it is opposed to the whole of the programming bill – as indeed to the whole of the organic bill, I will explain this to myself by defending the second motion to reject beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u235	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u236	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will also vote in favour of this motion of rejection. The minister responded to Mr Savignant's arguments on the budget side, and I will go back to that in the general discussion: it is not, in fact, a matter of judging this year's budget – it is another debate – but of finding that the justice budget is suffering a huge delay and that this programming bill exempts the ministry from the responsibility to catch up. This reform tends to narrow the scope of justice, limit access to judges, particularly for mass litigation, and change the territorial organization of courts. As for dematerialization, it is invoked as a magic word while in fact, we know, it will only enshrine inequality of access to the law. Above all, the manner in which you proceed, minister, can no longer be accepted in the first year of the legislature. Given the state of our country, the doubts about its democratic functioning, you can no longer legislate without taking into account the opposition expressed almost unanimously by the people concerned – all the more so as the debate moves forward and as you try to explain yourself about your project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u237	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u238	I can't let you say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u239	Instead of persuading, you accentuate the oppositions! For example, at the beginning, there are unions of magistrates, which are rather in favour of your text, which are now formally opposed to it. I believe that this way of moving into power, of governing over intermediate bodies, can no longer function in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u240	That's why there are yellow vests!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u241	I have no further request for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u242	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group a motion to reject beforehand tabled under Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft organic law on strengthening the organisation of courts. The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u243	It is clear that the judicial institution allows the application of the principle of equality of citizens before the law, as defined in article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789. This justice must be mediating and impartial. This is one of the pillars of social cohesion, because it allows us to act as mediators in conflicts between the litigants, avoiding in principle that they do justice themselves – they still need to have a minimum confidence in justice. We must therefore reject this reform of the justice system, which is being carried out against the justiciable and against the idea of justice. Yes, it is, first of all, a "economic" justice that is proposed by your reform, Madam Minister, and it is a danger to the French. Of course, Bercy doesn't have a malicious eye on the chancery, whose budget is increasing. But without being able to increase the credits of all your programs, the problem comes from your own internal arbitrations: in your opinion, it is necessary to build prison places, as well as the magnificent future software announced for 2022. This breakdown means that, in fact, the increase in appropriations for judicial justice does not exceed 1.7% for 2019 – not 5%. And that's why you need to privatize certain sectors. But dematerialization, for example, when seen as a source of savings, is like a disincarnation of litigation, which does not necessarily reconcile with the idea that justice can be achieved. The same search for profitability applies to civil servants and magistrates with the deterioration of the statutes and the framework of employment: there are plans for rotating centres of clerks, mutualization of the registers of the courts of prud'hommes located in the vicinity of other courts, multiplication of magistrates placed, temporary magistrates, honorary magistrates... Since the ministry no longer has the means to hire, the satellites of the function of judging are generalized. As for the organic bill, it is constantly reducing the possibilities for the litigant to resort to a judge – in this respect, you are placing yourself in a certain form of continuity. Privatisation through digital platforms will be a reality tomorrow. Not that our group is against the dematerialised platforms – I have heard in the Chamber and in some media a lot of nonsense about this – but the obligation to resort to prior mediation will throw hundreds of thousands of people into the mouth of the wolf. While you will have a certification of these online platforms, an optional certification, by the way, you will not prevent people from falling under the cut of margoulins. Because there are margoulins on the Internet – my colleague Gosselin had found the right word, and I do not understand what prompted the rapporteur to use it against the National Bar Council – which this bill will only satisfy. I would also point out that the Defender of Rights regularly publishes reports on the remoteness of digital technology from which a number of our fellow citizens suffer. You say that they will go to the SAUJ closest to their home, but still it is necessary that they exist nearby, and that they really have the means to function – because we also know the infernal cadences in the unique reception services of the justiciable. You will also increase the use of structures whose role is not initially to judge. The example of the FCA is particularly telling in this respect: the aim is to entrust to another structure a part of the cases that the judges deal with in family matters, so that they can devote more time to those who will remain with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u244	It is a matter of giving a faster answer for the citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u245	In fact, more family judges would be needed. The rejection of the debate on the essential subject of legal aid is also striking. You have refused this debate by promising us that it will take place later, but we can ask ourselves the question of the concordance of time. Madam Minister, you looked to the sky when I told you, in a previous session devoted to the examination of this text, that a decree had amended the value units used as a basis for the remuneration of legal aid lawyers according to the type of litigation, notably reducing the value units for the litigation of foreigners. I would point out that this decree dates from December 27, 2018. This bodes ill for our future debates. It is the search for rationality that decides changes in the judicial organization. The abolition of the High Court by merging it with the High Court into a single entity, the Judicial Court, is quite representative of this choice. What you are proposing is a specialization. I'll be honest with you about the discussion I've had with lawyers about this. These lawyers considered that the specialisation of magistrates in a type of litigation would make it possible to have, at the hearing, a better holding of the debate, which would be positive for their clients and, ultimately, for everyone. According to them, the justice done in this way will only be better, because the magistrates will no longer deal with unrelated disputes, one after the other. To these lawyers, I replied that this specialized justice assumes that their clients can move to the relevant court, which may be several dozen or even a hundred kilometres from their home, since the proximity of the judge and the justice will no longer exist. The dilemma is therefore: to make more kilometres and to have a better judgment, or to have a justice of proximity but degraded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u246	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u247	For my part, I chose not to decide. Madam Minister, you have decided in a budgetary context, not for your department, but for judicial justice. You see that my reasoning is better than that of Mr.Antoine Savignant, whom I also very much appreciate! On the criminal side, your bill leads to justice becoming an internal state sub-secretariat. I see the formula amuses you. I find her, too, quite successful. The text multiplies renunciations and hooves with the sole aim of reconciling systematic criminal response, statistical productivity and, of course – since it is a matter of judicial justice – budgetary restriction, to the detriment of the justiciable and the idea of justice. Budgetary constraints are accompanied by authoritarian drift. The extension of the investigative powers of prosecutors is done without reflection, assuming that giving prosecutors more resources will make it possible to move faster. On the other hand, the small number of prosecutors and the fact that France has twice as many public prosecutors per capita as Germany or England were not considered a problem. However, this should lead us to ask ourselves questions! Concentrating a lot of power in the hands of few people who are overwhelmed by the large number of investigations is an explosive cocktail that can lead to a new Overseas. On the other hand, Madam Minister, what do you think of the debate on the independence of the prosecutor's office, which is no longer a contemporary debate, when you are constantly recommending a tightening of the criminal response? Even yesterday, in the Sunday Journal, you called for firm requisitions from the prosecution against those who discredit the movement of yellow vests. We cling, we think we dream, we think that such statements are not possible! It reminds me of the gentleman that the police came to his house at 7 a.m. because he had filmed and aired on Facebook Live the video of a mobilization of eight yellow vests in which one of them was heard insulting a policeman. In his immediate appearance, he requested that the hearing be postponed and fortunately came out free, allowing him to participate in the following demonstrations. However, this hardening, this desire to judge everyone by leaving nothing, as they say, to pass, constitutes a drift. Let us add that the parquet has a heavy hand and that its requisitions are, sometimes, followed by the seat. I'm thinking of the four months in prison that a yellow vest was sentenced for throwing a pot of rillettes at police officers! Far from me, and I condemn this gesture. But imposing a sentence of four months firm against this protestor was excessive! Madam Minister, you yourself said earlier that the short sentences are desocializing and that they must be stopped. What are we doing? Since the beginning of the movement, 316 yellow vests have been sentenced to short prison sentences. Perhaps Christophe Dettinger's trial was the one that caught my most attention. Not that the prosecutor's requisitions were remarkable, because they were in the image of what you wanted, Madam Minister: a firm answer. On the other hand, it is interesting to note, in view of the future debate on pre-trial detention, that Mr. Dettinger will have better conditions of imprisonment after his trial than during the period of pre-trial detention, where he could, for example, have been placed under judicial supervision, since, for his one-year prison sentence, he will be able to benefit from an ab initio sentence in the form of semi-release. One might also wonder whether Mr. Dettinger would have benefited from this adjustment under the new system, which no longer allows prison sentences to be adjusted for a period of one to two years. Or perhaps the magistrate should have handed down a prison sentence of one and a half years, in order to be sure that Mr. Dettinger was incarcerated without his sentence being manageable? [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] In short, there is nothing in this text to improve the rights of litigants. Madam Minister, you said Paris is not Caracas. I don't know enough Caracas or Venezuelan justice to make a comparison. On the other hand, when I see Matignon searching, thanks to your services, the premises of Mediapart, I wonder if Matignon is not Al-Yamamah, this palace of Saudi Arabia where your allies sit to whom we sell weapons!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u248	We're touching the bottom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u249	The Justice Bill validates the pattern of regression of the rights of defence and dehumanization. As the Judicial Union says, it is the great riddle of freedoms. And what about video conferencing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u250	What about holograms?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u251	At the present time, video conferencing gives rise to ubiquitous discussions, since the lawyer does not know whether to place himself on the side of the magistrate or the defendant, and leads to a justice that is bad for everyone. We should be busy discussing, as part of the constitutional reform, the establishment of a Supreme Council of Justice that replaces the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and has no connection with the executive but would be accountable to the national representation. We could talk about criminal policy here, which would be more consistent and avoid you, Madam Minister, being in the uncomfortable situation you are in! We should also talk about the recruitment of magistrates, which I have already mentioned. When we find that the mobilization of the yellow vests produces a congestion of the immediate appearances, how do we not find this completely insane? We should also discuss the means to be given to the assize courts, because this justice done on behalf of the people with the citizens who are jurors would deserve to be strengthened. You sweep them with a back of your hand by offering departmental criminal courts, arguing that rendering justice in the course of sittings would be too complicated and too long! In the end, it is the citizen you exclude from justice. I will conclude on the prison section, which continues its descent on the repressive slope. What are the demands of the prison officers who are currently being mobilised? To follow the claim platform of the union agreement representing more than 66% of the staff, does their central claim concern additional prison places? No, while $1.7 billion is going to be spent for that purpose. The 5% increase in this budget could have been used to satisfy the demands of prison guards. If the security drift that you welcome is happening, it is because tensions in prisons and overcrowding are increasing. It is clear, however, that when so-called "respecto" neighbourhoods are set up, tensions and the number of attacked overseers are drastically reduced. The situation then becomes much more comfortable for the overseers, who can then take care of the human person instead of only opening and closing doors, but also for the inmates. That's how you should act, but you'd rather listen, which is never a good policy. For these and other reasons that it has not been possible for me to present in fifteen minutes, we must reject this reform of the justice system, which is being carried out against litigants and against the idea of justice. This is also the view of the majority of lawyers, clerks, magistrates, officials of the Ministry of Justice, prison supervisors and youth judicial protection staff. I will be happy to participate in their upcoming events.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u252	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u253	[[Smile]] Mr President, it is always a pleasure to hear you, as everything is in everything, and vice versa. From the law of justice which, I agree, is a technical law, you rebuild the world, or rather a world, your world, in the light of your concerns and presuppositions. That's not what I wanted to do...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u254	Ugo Bernalicis leaves without listening to the minister's answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u255	It's rude!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u256	See you in Caracas!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u257	[["Congratulation! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Goodbye, Congressman. We will be pleased to continue this conversation later. However, I will respond briefly. Contrary to what Mr Bernalicis has put forward, it is not cost-effective justice that we want, but effective justice. When we propose to create a judge for the compensation of victims of terrorist attacks, it is obviously not for justice to be cost-effective but to provide a faster and more effective response to these victims. When we propose to create, on an experimental basis, the departmental criminal court, it is also not for justice to be profitable, since five magistrates will sit there, but for it to be more effective towards criminals and more concerned with the concerns of victims. It is therefore not a privatized justice that we wish to put in place, but a justice that gives the judge its true added value by involving him where he can bring, in substantive disputes, his mastery of the art of deciding. Mr Bernalicis also suggested that, in my remarks, I encouraged prosecutors to take very coercive action against yellow vests. It is the exact opposite that is true: I have asked the prosecutors to act with systematism and firmness against all violence against people and property, precisely to protect those who triggered the protest movement of the yellow vests. Mr Bernalicis therefore gave an interpretation of the Government's action. Finally, I understood that he blamed me for making choices and making decisions. As Pierre Mendès France said before me – and I greet Bruno Questel, who is his legitimate heir –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u258	It's not exactly the same thought!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u259	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... "To govern is to choose". And choosing is sometimes extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u260	In explanation of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is for Mrs Caroline Abadie.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u261	The two rejection motions we have just heard are both similar and different. Similar, because they show that the left and right often join in this Chamber – and not only on this bill on justice – by being against almost everything and criticising even an increasing budget, which is rare and should be welcomed. To listen to them well, however, we realize that the left and right oppose this project without always being in agreement. As proof, I would like to hear the words about the prisons that we have just heard: some will say that we have stopped imprisoning the offenders, while others will ensure that we put everyone behind bars. I would therefore like to know what has been retained in this justice bill: clearly, everything and its opposite. [[Mr. Balanant applauds]] Mr. Bernalicis told us about more cost-effective justice. Is it more cost-effective to allow protected majors to vote? I don't believe it. Is it more profitable to allow them to marry without going through the judge, by putting in place a whole system that protects both themselves and their assets? I don't believe it. Accepting a clearly beneficial estate without passing before a judge, is it more profitable? I don't believe it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are some of the reasons why I invite all my colleagues in the La République group to vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u262	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u263	Of course, because its purpose is good, namely the rejection of this text, we will vote on this motion, even if it is not necessarily for the same reasons as our colleagues, because we do not share the same opinion on all the points that have been raised. That is democracy: we listen to each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u264	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u265	When we find out, in the end, that there are more bad than good in the balance, our opinions converge in the common interest. If, therefore, we must now vote on this motion to reject it beforehand, we will vote on it. This organic law is, however, particularly important, as I have already said, I repeat. It removes the judge in charge of the administration of the district court and hangs him up to the judge of the new judicial court, and makes the district court a chamber of the same court. As a result, it opens the door to all drifts. I have heard and understood that the Government and the majority do not want such abuses to occur, but the system will necessarily be exposed to them because it is out of breath. You know that, and you wouldn't have looked into it if you hadn't noticed it. We have 100 more magistrates next year, but about 500 are missing, given the 1,600 retirements that will take place in our country. When 280 places are opened for the contest of the National School of the Judiciary in 2017 and 250 in 2018, and we are told that 400 additional positions of magistrates will have been created in 2020, I may count, count and count, the account is not there, and I still do not know how these posts will be created. Therefore, the Republican Group will obviously vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u266	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u267	I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr Bernalicis tells us that some Members are demonstrating. That's good. Tomorrow we will also be many to protest: he does not have the monopoly of the demonstration. Besides that, there are MPs who are working. Mr Bernalicis has certainly worked a great deal on the text – we must recognize that consistency – but only in the opposition and without ever recognizing the progress made. I find that a pity. The government governs, and when we govern we make choices, as the minister has just said by quoting Pierre Mendès France. Our justice, indeed, Mr. Savignat, is out of breath, but because she has suffered thirty years of miscarriage, lack of investment and abandonment. Today, we face the challenge of reforming this justice system by significantly increasing its budget by 25%, which had not been done for many years. We're doing it, we're moving forward. Yes, this text will make it possible to go faster for the justiciable. Today, while you were talking, ladies and gentlemen, I had an appointment with one of my officials who complained about the slowness of justice. So let's move forward so that justice goes faster and is more effective! Mr Bernalicis, in a great spirit at the Ruffin, told us anecdotes from his meetings. For my part, I spoke with a lawyer opposed to the text. I told him that I disagreed with everything, that I had different assessments on some points. He said 80% agreed with the text. If the great opposition we are promised concerns 20% of the text, I am not sure that the majority of the members of these fine judicial professions are so opposed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u268	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u269	A few words to explain the vote of the Libertés et Territoires Group on this motion as well as on motions for referral to committee. Madam Minister, throughout the various readings, our group has expressed disagreement with your proposals for reform. We regret that many of our amendments have not been accepted or accepted, as well as our proposal to postpone consideration of this text after the time of the great national debate. The issues of justice, access to law, proximity and efficiency are, in fact, extremely important issues, which come back regularly when we meet our fellow citizens. You will reply to us that it is not excluded that they make proposals in this regard. This means, in this case, that Parliament will have to debate these issues again. From the point of view of methodology, this does not seem to me to be extremely relevant, especially since the concerns and questions about the meaning of these reforms expressed by legal professionals and elected officials could have been raised in this debate. My colleague Michel Castellani will come back for more time during the general discussion of our disagreements with this text, which explains that we will vote in favour of this motion to reject beforehand and for the motions for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u270	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group a motion to refer to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure on draft 2018-2022 programming and justice reform legislation. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u271	In the near term of the parliamentary shuttle, the motion for referral to committee, which I have the honour of presenting on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is intended to try, one last time, to convince you to put the work back on the job. This bill on the planning and reform of the justice system raised doubts, and then the opposition, frank, determined and permanent, of the majority of the professionals of the justice system, from all categories: lawyers and lawyers, magistrates and magistrates, clerks and clerks, specialized educators and educators, administrative staff. For months, they and they have been mobilizing, calling on you to launch in our country a real big debate on justice. I would like here, on behalf of the La France group, to renew our support and solidarity with another new movement: the black dress movement. This has certainly attracted little media attention – difficult to portray the members of these well-known professions as horrific violent, homophobic and anti-Semitic breakers, in any case more difficult than for Jojos in yellow vests. Rather than the overexposure of facts that are mediatically and symbolically spectacular – dead justice day, civil codes and criminal procedure burned in public place –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u272	This is outrageous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u273	...the strategy was, on the contrary, to make it invisible. Yet it is a movement that has marked and continues to mark the world of justice as a whole by the depth of its rejection of a reform that challenges the foundations of democracy and the rule of law. Let us remember that justice is one of the foundations of democracy. One doesn't go without the other. To weaken one is to shake the other. That is precisely what you are doing. That's why black dresses and yellow vests actually have much more commonalities and convergences than they seem. There is, of course, clearly the unprecedented level of judicial repression experienced by the yellow vest movement. The Prime Minister said last week: "Since the beginning of these events, 1796 convictions have been handed down by the courts and 1,422 people are still awaiting trial. More than 1300 immediate appearances were held and 316 persons were placed under a warrant of committal. These figures are staggering, and the Government is very wrong to welcome them, as they are evidence of political failure and authoritarian drift rather than a good exercise of justice. Many observers – journalists, researchers and law professionals – talk about mass repression and a judicial system that has been mobilised for three months to deliver exceptional justice. Thus, fanciful incriminations, sloppy procedures, exorbitant penalties for imaginary offences and systematic challenges to the rights of the defence are denounced. We have also talked about attitudes such as that of the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, which was challenged by Le Canard enchainé: the prosecutor of the High Court reportedly ordered his substitutes to keep people in custody, which amounts to nothing less than arbitrary kidnappings. There is still talk of the categorical refusal, despite the obvious, to prosecute law enforcement officers who have committed acts of violence: the provisional assessment drawn up by journalist David Dufresne in relation to police repression reports 443 reports, one death, 193 head injuries, 20 eborgnés and 5 hands removed. This is a justice in crisis, because of the lack of resources, which already has a great deal of difficulty in fulfilling its basic tasks of public service. It is abruptly instrumentalised by an increasingly authoritarian executive power, which is seen, even beyond our borders, by the largest European and international bodies. This executive publicly takes on the confusion of powers that nullifies the principles of independence and impartiality of justice and undermines the rule of law. We find the trace – the inspiration, perhaps – of this approach in your bill through the broadening of the use of procedures that violate rights and freedoms, such as wiretapping, geolocations, searches without consent from the preliminary stage of the investigation, remote access to electronic correspondence, and I pass it on. More generally, the disproportion of the measures taken, such as the politico-politician instrumentalisation of already weakened justice, cannot fail to alarm, especially when the way it is exercised vis-à-vis each other – political opponents, journalists, demonstrators and protestors – is paralleled with the somewhat surprising one, at the limit of complacency, with which other subjects of law are dealt with. In macronia, on the one hand, there are those who succeed: they and they enjoy impunity granted to the highest summit of the State, which allows them to be treated with singular lightness even when they are caught in fact. For example, this former Elysian barbouze, Alexandre B., who usurps the badges of the police forces, violently attacks demonstrators and protestors, lies during his hearing by a parliamentary commission of inquiry, subtracts documents from a judicial investigation and goes quietly around the world with diplomatic passports. And then, on the other hand, there are those others who are nothing, usually dedicated to precariousness in perpetuity. And when they and they come to revolt against fiscal, environmental, social and democratic injustice, they and they get here and there only a few carrot peels and, above all, a lot of flash-ball shots, police, pre-trial detentions, immediate appearances and prison sentences. This double standards, this blatant injustice, fuel public and popular distrust, and the massive rejection of institutions, including justice. This rejection, your reform project will accentuate it. This programming bill will lead to the construction of a two-speed justice system, dehumanized and deserted. It focuses on technicians and technicians, as well as experts and experts, particularly in the area of lucrative services, and leaves people who do not have control of these various tools and who do not have access to these means on the side of the road. Let us take the example, which has been recalled in previous interventions, and which is important for everyone to understand the problem, the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. Your text thus confirms the disappearance of the court of instance, a jurisdiction which is geographically close to the litigants, simple and accessible in its method of referral, inexpensive and judged in satisfactory time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u274	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u275	This is rare enough at the moment, with an overcrowded judiciary and magistrates, not to remind him. The abolition of the trial court and of the function of trial judge – replaced by local courts without autonomous legal existence, and thus more easily moveable and moveable – will exacerbate territorial inequalities and access to justice. You have repeatedly stated, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that you did not want to make the Grand Night of the Judicial Card, and that you would only divide the functions and matters between the courts. We, members of the various oppositions – members of the majority seem surprised that groups with different strategies and objectives may find themselves in defence of the common interest, while it is part of democracy and the meaning of public affairs – as well as many legal professionals, believe that your reform will likely result in the closure of courts by 2022, so the creation of judicial deserts in sparsely populated areas, the end of equality between territories before the judicial institution, with the emergence of "pocket" courts all over the country, the increase of difficulties in carrying out procedures, because where there are unique and identifiable courts today, it may be necessary to move to three or four different places tomorrow depending on the subject matter. In the same way that one cannot justify a State à la carte according to the departments, one cannot create different courts depending on the territories. It would not only be an attack on the unity of the judicial authority, totally illegible to citizens, but also the announcement of future judicial deserts. At a time when you are getting used to the great communication operation that has become the national pseudo-debate, which was supposed to meet the expectations of citizens, you pass, again, beside the demands, carried by the movement of yellow vests and widely supported by the population, better access and better human accompaniment to social, economic and political rights, and to justice. Here is an example, among many others, that justifies voting in favour of this motion to refer to committee. In recent days, the importance of the fight against racism and discrimination has become particularly acute: the weakness of the judicial and humane care of victims is a stark illustration of one of the serious shortcomings of our judicial system. In particular, this is reflected in the latest report of the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights, devoted to the year 2017. The CNCDH points out that auditors and judicial auditors are only aware of the margin on the technicality of litigation. In its twenty-eighth recommendation, the CNCDH encourages public authorities to deploy, or reactivate, anti-discrimination clusters. The record of those already created – their existence shows that certain measures were taken before you came to power – is disappointing, as their activity is uneven or even non-existent in some jurisdictions. This recommendation is similar to Amendment No 316 which we have submitted to you for the establishment of judicial centres specialising in the fight against discrimination in each Court of Appeal. These centres would include magistrates and magistrates at the headquarters and prosecutorial levels, as well as specialized judicial officers and police officers, associations and litigants drawn by lot. As such, we have tabled many other amendments than deletion. But, like all the others, you have rejected this proposal. What was not our surprise to hear, a few weeks later, in January 2019, the Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination, Marlène Schiappa, approve, in a television show, a similar idea and commit to implement it! But we're not beggars and you say, "Hitch! " Let's work on it! However, such a subject cannot be settled decently on the corner of a television set and deserves all the attention as well as all the efforts of national representation. At the heart of the great social and popular revolt that has been shaking our country for more than three months, we have heard several times, on the roundabouts and in the mobilizations and actions of citizens in yellow vests, a great and healthy thirst for tax, environmental, social, and justice. Audre Lorde, a U.S. poet whose birthday it is today, said: "If I cannot express this pain and change it, I would certainly die. This is the beginning of social protest." Without justice, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, there is no possible or desirable social peace. If you want social and republican peace, restore republican justice and vote in favour of this motion for referral to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u276	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u277	It is always difficult to answer you, Mrs Obono, because you are making, here and elsewhere, in this House or in committee, a fairly wise and complete mixture of many provisions, I must admit, and you regularly bring up examples from your reality and other realities. You lend yourself very regularly to a simplification exercise, which becomes an instrumentalisation exercise. You have the consequences of elements of fact that we all see in order to integrate them into a different logic, if not very different from that of the text. You talk about some things that are related to the text and others that are less so. It is not a serious way, Mrs Obono, to approach the debate on the reform of the justice system, a long-term debate that comes from far, as was said earlier. It will continue, because we need to reform the French justice system. You cannot summon images as striking as books and codes that are burned. This reminds me of the autodafés of books that we have known in the most troubled periods of European history. Thank you, Mrs Obono, for not making such references, which are neither useful nor elegant. Above all, they can violently hit our Republican consciences. In fact, it is the republican order that we also defend in this text. This is how we respond to social phenomena and developments to which we must pay attention. You are basically aiming at opposing two worlds that cannot be opposed, because we live in the same place, at the same time, and we have the same obligations, as parliamentarians, to fulfil the objectives of responsibility imposed on us. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mrs Obono, of course we cannot support your motion to refer it back to committee. The vote would be tantamount to saying that the debate did not take place, although there were many. They certainly did not give you satisfaction, because you do not want it to be so. You are in a position, and referral to committee is also a matter of posture. We refuse to do so, because we want to move forward. You said you weren't a fool: we're no more than you and we want to move forward. Demonstrate that you have the same purpose! You never did. That is why I am clearly opposed to referring the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u278	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u279	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u280	I shall continue with the words of the rapporteur. First, consultations were held with various specialists and professionals. The parliamentarians took over and examined the text in a procedure that was not accelerated; the parliamentary shuttle has been long. We have heard five motions to refer the text back to committee and five motions to reject the text beforehand. The debate, which has therefore taken place, is continuing. I am aware of the hostility of some in this Chamber to the great debate that is currently taking place, but the organisation of public services and democracy and citizenship – which affects the relationship that everyone can have to the different powers of the Republic and democracy – are among its themes. Secondly, I would like to point out the excesses of Mrs Obono, who drew a parallel between the black robes and the yellow vests, saying that the excesses would have been reported only in a few. It seems to me that the summons and interrogations of some of my colleagues have been noted and denounced by many colleagues, both the majority and the opposition, who have been victims or recipients of them. There were excesses among professionals, which we would have done well. I will not note here the false information that the European Parliament has voted against the French rule of law, since it has rejected the motion on the subject. This is a false information that we intend to condemn. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You have confused, certainly voluntarily, the preliminary investigations, which are aimed at offences found, and the flagrance investigations, which lead to the arrest of some demonstrators after the commission of offences. When we talk about justice, we must be rigorous. That is one of the reasons why this motion cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u281	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u282	There is no social peace without justice, you said, Mrs. Obono. We all agree. However, can there be a social peace with justice that would not work perfectly? Neither. That is why we reform it, increase its resources and make it embrace the challenges of our time. Justice must evolve. A few years ago, the Internet didn't exist. It is quite logical that justice has not taken this technology into account, and this bill allows it to evolve. We frame this wonderful and sometimes evil tool, so that our citizens can use it. Our justice must respond to the need for justice for citizens, which is not satisfied with the length of the current deadlines. When we wait, we don't have an answer. In this period, which may be long, inequality may develop, linked to a lack of compensation, for example. Justice must therefore move faster. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Mr Bernalicis spoke to us earlier about the specialization of the courts. You don't want to choose between efficiency and distance. We, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, Copyright, for example, is a complex matter that not all courts follow. But fortunately, an author does not deal very often with justice: it is better that it be done quickly, even if it has to take a few more kilometers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u283	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u284	I would like to begin by noting the surrealist side of the parliamentary procedure. At the time of constitutional reform, you and yours, the minister, were ready to plan opposition rights to speed up the legislative process. Each of us must mobilize to modernise this process, but we do not need to amputate the rights of the opposition, particularly the rights of amendment. This reflection will feed into the reform of our Assembly's Rules of Procedure. The Socialist and Related Group will vote on this motion to refer the matter back to committee. Minister, we were all surprised, including in your majority – including MODEM, Mr. Balanant – by your amendment reforming the Children Offender Ordinance 1945. You never mentioned it before, and you even said the opposite. Many of us asked you for more time to know exactly your intentions and objectives, and to continue thinking with you. Today, we feel like we missed an opportunity, because we could have accompanied you in this modernization of the 1945 order,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u285	You can always do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u286	...which has already been groomed in the past. The authoritarian form, perhaps hasty and improvised, leads us to ask for a review of this text. It is not a referral back to committee, you will tell me, which will allow us to answer all our questions; But it is the proposal that is being made here, and our current regulation does not give us any other possibility. That is why we will vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u287	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u288	The laws must only be touched with a trembling hand, Montesquieu wrote. By listening to our colleagues in the majority and to your own answers, the seal keeper, I see that you have not trembled enough in the drafting of this text, nor, above all, in the way you present it to our chamber and to the Senate. Your certainty of the absolute validity of the measures contained therein has led you not to be sufficiently open to the amendments proposed by minority groups. I will take the example of the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. As drafted, the text does not provide any guarantees for the implementation of this measure within the courts. The urgency, timeliness or statistics requested from the courts may direct them to give priority to any aspect of the proceedings before them. In particular, they will be able to favour high-level litigation at the expense of litigation, which is, however, those of the most modest litigants. My group – and not just him – had tabled a number of amendments on this subject, which were systematically rejected. I find it a pity that we have reached this point; That is one of the reasons why my group will of course vote on the motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u289	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u290	[[Smile]] Judge and gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u291	Although the rapporteur's arguments were non-existent on the merits, I want to respond in part to them and to a few other statements. Yes, as has been said and said again, some observations are shared on all the benches of our House. I am thinking, for example, of the lack of resources allocated to justice and the delay in this area. Things have been done for a number of years, but not up to the needs. No one, I believe, disputes it. Our proposals differ on the basis of our respective analyses of the situation and, above all, our understanding of what our justice should be. I am disappointed, Mr rapporteur, that you have not heard, in the course of our debates, though very long, in committee and in the sitting, the proposals that we were making, whether in terms of budgetary increase or reform of the judicial map – I have mentioned one by defending this motion. Obviously, the very strong mobilization of the professionals of justice has also escaped you, including in its symbolic expressions, sometimes very striking, I grant it to you. The reproach you make me ignores one thing: if legal professionals, who know the strength of symbols, come to such forms of expression, it should perhaps make you think. This confirmed, in any case, the doubts expressed from the beginning of the "works of justice" and the so-called consultation. Many justice professionals, who have been sent multiple-choice questionnaires or other such things, have seen this as a waste of time rather than a way to open up a real debate. You chose not to hear them, as you insist not to hear our arguments. That is a shame, and that is precisely why the text should be referred back to committee: it would allow us to finally agree, and to move forward for justice in the service of as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u292	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u293	A referral to committee would at least have the virtue of giving us time and, perhaps, of taking advantage of this time to really consult the stakeholders, the people most affected by this reform: the professionals of the law, the judiciary. No good reform can, in my view, be made against the majority of those who are responsible for implementing it or who are undergoing it. Earlier, a colleague said that he had met with a professional in the justice sector who had a different opinion. For my part, I have met dozens of them, and not a single one approved of this reform. Within the Bobigny court, the second in France, the judicial staff – from magistrates to lawyers, through the clerks – are, in the vast majority, opposed to this text, which arouses their concern. In addition to meeting many associations and staff, I demonstrated and spoke in front of rallies of thousands of "black dresses." At a time when our country is debating democracy, the balance between representative democracy – the role of which remains important – and participatory democracy, we must act in this way, denying the intermediate bodies and passing on to them to impose, by force, a law to which the majority of those concerned opposes, seems to me to be a very bad method: I have already said it, and I repeat it. From this point of view, a referral to the committee could be beneficial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u294	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure on the draft organic law on strengthening the organisation of courts. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u295	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur and the rapporteur – whose work I welcome, as has been done by Mrs Custody of the Seals, and whom I thank for the respectful discussions that we have had, although I do not share your conclusions or, in many cases, the answers that you are proposing – this organic bill implements, at the statutory level, the reforms of the judicial organisation undertaken under the ordinary bill, in particular with regard to the merger of the courts of procedure and of the courts of main instance and the establishment, on an experimental basis, of a departmental criminal court. Our group is opposed to this organic bill because it strongly opposes your comprehensive justice reform project. What purpose, Madam Minister, are you pursuing with this one? You promise us "to build a more readable, accessible, simpler and effective justice." We can't be more technocratic about that, you've been pounding them for months. Very naive is the one who would have hoped, on your part, for the simple objective of a fairer justice, that is to say a justice put under conditions to say the law more clearly and more quickly, and to firmly ensure the implementation of its judgments. A priori, these can be nuances; In reality, there is a difference in nature. Your goals can be achieved with a technical approach, which is the one you have chosen. Those I say require a political and humane approach, a fundamental reflection and projects of another stature, perhaps higher. The approach also differs in its logic: initially, it puts the vision of specialists and citizens' expectations on an equal footing, and then aims to accord one to the other rather than to impose the former by ignoring the feeling of the citizens. With your certainty of a majority that could not be found, you could ignore that feeling before you started the big debate. But today, the rediscovery – or more precisely the discovery – of the virtues of deliberation, citizen listening, the virtues of field experience should call your approach into question. Otherwise, it will be established that this great debate is merely a delaying manoeuvre. During the re-reading, I asked you, Madam Minister, to question what our fellow citizens expect from their justice. That is the real question. Did you ask him? Ever since you kept the seals, have you ever wondered what the French want in this area? Yes, say you; But that is not what we hear in our territories. What do our fellow citizens want? Nothing simpler, actually. They are waiting for the law to be said quickly when they are in conflict and, if they are victims of a criminal offence, they hope that the judgments will be executed diligently – if not immediately – and that the sentences handed down will actually be served. These citizen words can be struck at the corner of common sense; But common sense is not an intruder in the legal matter: it seems to me that it is even a good inspiration for simplicity. In any event, you will no longer be able to govern France by contemptating at this point the feelings or resentments of the French and French. Our fellow citizens are opposed to the weakening, remoteness and complexity of public services. But you will agree, justice is not a public service like any other. It is a sovereign competence, a duty of the State to our fellow citizens; This is the basic counterpart of citizen submission to the laws. Minister, your project is not in line with these expectations. Two sets of indices support this finding. First, all legal professionals react badly. When magistrates, lawyers, clerks and, more discreetly, policemen pronounce themselves in chorus against your text, you cannot invoke corporatist resistance! If their approaches diverge, what basically unites them is their visceral attachment to the justice of our country. Also, when their cry is unanimous, it is that things do not go in the right direction: you cannot ignore it. You live it every time you travel, and you lived it again Friday morning, in Toulon. Forgive me for not being able to accompany you, Madam Minister, but I was here. You can no longer move without being assured of being faced with a sometimes hostile host committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u296	There were yellow vests!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u297	Yes, minister, that's what I was referring to. This is a sign that is not misleading, with regard to the defiance of our fellow citizens towards the Government. Secondly, as other colleagues have pointed out, when all opposition groups, in their political diversity, say in unison that the projects do not meet expectations, this should alert you. It should also make you realize that you are touching on principles that transcend partisan commitments, that is to say, deeply republican principles. On many occasions, on other issues – taxation, excluding elected officials or local institutions – we have told you here, each with its sensitivity, that you are making a mistake. Deafly of our warnings, you have plunged the country into a crisis that you still cannot get out of. How many more acts will it take for our fellow citizens, our businesses, our businesses, to be able to experience serene Saturdays again? Do you really think that your plan to reform justice satisfies the French and French, the nation we represent here, in this historic Chamber, in an assembly that has fought so hard to uphold our republican ideal? We can be proud to sit there, but we have a duty, a duty without appeal: to debate and say things. And today, my duty is to tell you that the Republicans consider that your project is not good, that it is inabouti and that it does not meet the expectations of professionals, French and French. Of course, the latter do not know the content of your project, but when they discover what has become of justice, they will not have hard enough words to express their reproaches to you, and they will be right. My colleague Antoine Savignat has perfectly portrayed the substance of your text and its unacceptable traverses in the motion to reject beforehand: the removal of the judge, the dehumanization of procedures, algorithmic justice, the erasure of local justice, the merger of the courts, the disappearance of popular juries for a number of crimes, the precarisation of rights for the weakest, the renunciation of the need to build the number of prison places – and on which the candidate Macron had nevertheless committed himself – or insufficient budget. On this last point, if there are plenty of things to be done, you know very well that they will not allow our justice to find a balance – especially in relation to the German or English courts – since we have gone from very low. I remind you, however, that remoteness creates distrust and precarization creates a feeling of inequality. Renunciation of additional means in the prison world galvanizes the sense of impunity among the perpetrators and creates a feeling of injustice among the victims: all of the ingredients that give substance to the widespread distrust expressed both by the yellow vest crisis and in a plethora of literature of political science or opinion studies. Minister, your reform proposal is being submitted, as others have said, to Bercy's wishes. If you are satisfied with this, it is because you do not measure its scope. This text can satisfy the most affluent like thugs, but it will never satisfy the French. Our duty and honour is to represent them. Otherwise, it is the very question of our parliamentary system that will be asked. Do we have to change our Republic because we no longer have the courage to make ours live? If deafness and blindness persist both within the executive and in the ranks of the parliamentary majority, what can be the credibility of the great debate launched a month ago? Is it about bluffing the nation? To temporarily relieve presidential concerns? Our colleagues in the Senate have provided outstanding work on justice reform projects. Will you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, sweep this work out of a vote? Do not show sectarianism, accept the outstretched hand without political back-thinking; You owe it to the French and French. You did it for the anti-cassage bill, under the leadership of the Government. Thus, if not all of the Senate proposals were taken up, at least the vast majority of them. Some in your ranks have finally shown the value they attach to their personal convictions. You can take another step by proving that the meaning of your vote does not depend on the direction of the government's vision! Let us save time, cease to submit to you, vote in your soul and conscience of people's representatives in favor of what is good for the country rather than what serves tactics, sometimes rough, often blurred, almost always confused by the executive. President Richard Ferrand reminded you of the independence of the National Assembly by appointing to the Constitutional Council the personality of his choice, not that which served the political plans of the Elysée. These texts are an additional opportunity to reveal to you in the role that the institutions, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, attribute to you a role that you have, so far, perhaps underestimated. You are the representatives of the nation and not the docile substitutes of the executive power. The French look at you and judge you and, through you, they judge national representation and its role in the balance of powers. [[Gilles Lurton applauds]] I call on you to vote on this motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u298	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u299	I will be brief since, as you said, our conclusions diverge – we have been able to see since the beginning of the examination of this text. We took the time, a lot of time, on each amendment to explain, debate and recall the reality of the text. The various motions defended today show that many of these explanations were in vain. You claim to have interviewed our fellow citizens and heard other requests from them. I did not hear our fellow citizens say that they did not want a more accessible and simpler justice; an increase in the budget for justice and recruitment; a judicial organisation closer to the territories and more flexible. On the other hand, I heard them express fears about chimera, somewhat erroneous presentations that were based more on a feeling than on the content of the text. You've talked about yellow vests at length – I don't understand why. I do not think they would vote on your motion to refer you back to committee. It seems to me that they express rather a great deal of satisfaction to see us spend so much time discussing the texts which are waiting for implementation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have been debating articles of draft legislation since 13 November. We've done it for a long time. There's no reason to go back to commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u300	In explanation of vote, Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u301	To paraphrase our colleague Antoine Savignat, a referral to committee, for what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u302	I'll tell you what to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u303	I pass over the year and a half of concertation, the eighty-six hearings, the examination in committee both in the Senate and in the National Assembly, and the parliamentary shuttle. Some – certainly bad minds – consider that the continuation of the discussion would be tantamount to a struggle, a war of wear and tear, and even – supreme shame – to a dilatory manoeuvre. More seriously, an umpteenth committee would not live up to the expectations of our fellow citizens who consider the judicial system too slow and too unreadable, and by this way, repulsive. The solutions proposed by this text are fundamentally renovating our judicial organization. One symbolic example: the creation of a single jurisdiction. The court will consolidate all the cases currently under the jurisdiction of either the courts of first instance or the courts of first instance. This will simplify access to justice as the litigant will have only one interlocutor, regardless of the dispute that he or she wants to hear. In addition, all courts will have a single reception service for the accused. It is therefore a matter of organisational simplification, a better reading for the justiciable, and thus of easier access to justice that this text focuses on. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, on behalf of the Republic on the move, I urge you to vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u304	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u305	I would like to point out to Mrs Kamowski who wanted to paraphrase our excellent colleague Antoine Savignant that he was defending a motion of rejection, not a motion of dismissal. The Republicans Group will vote on the motion to refer the organic bill that Mr Masson has just defended to committee. We do not accept – even if we know Article 45 of the Constitution – that you can thus, with a back of your hand, sweep all the contributions of the Senate by obliging us to work on the text adopted by the National Assembly. A committee meeting would have been necessary to examine the Senate proposals, some of which might have an interest, in particular with regard to the budgetary means of justice, the indispensable creation of additional prison places, and the revision of maintenance by the family allowance funds. On the latter issue, senators had taken care to bring together all the justice personnel who, unanimously and categorically, had opposed the measure set out in the bill. Your reform, in our view, removes the justiciable from the judge, dehumanizes the proceedings, and strikes a blow to the local justice system. I am struck by the fact that all the bars in France continue to challenge the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] As far as the protected majors are concerned, your colleague from La République en marche claimed a few moments ago that the text was improving their rights. Undoubtedly, the latter claimed this, but they remember that you paid them the costs of protection – the costs being levied on the amount of their adult disability allowance, which has certainly increased. You take back in one hand what you gave them from the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1154.u306	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, on final reading, of the 2018-2022 and Justice Reform Programming Bill and the Organic Bill on Strengthening the Organization of Courts. The meeting is adjourned.
