ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the approval of the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on strengthening cooperation in cross-border transport (No. 1735, 2021).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u2	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u3	The draft law on the ratification of a memorandum of understanding on cross-border transport between France and Luxembourg, submitted for your approval today, gives you the opportunity to offer thousands of our citizens efficient, decongested, multimodal and sustainable daily transport. First of all, I will return to the history and context of the negotiations which allow us to decide on this text today. The number of our citizens working in Luxembourg is constantly increasing. At present, more than 90,000 frontier workers take the route from Metz to Luxembourg via Thionville every day, whether by road or by rail. This number could reach 130,000 workers by 2030. Such an increase will quickly create a risk of congestion on road and rail routes, which already suffer from frequent incidents and irregular service. If we are to promote the economic development of border areas, it is important that the state and local authorities provide efficient conditions for daily travel. Thus, anxious to transport these thousands of workers under the best possible conditions and to provide them with durable alternatives to the individual car – a goal also defended in the framework of the mobility guidance law that your assembly approved a few days ago – France signed with Luxembourg on 20 March 2018, at the occasion of a Franco-Luxembourg intergovernmental seminar held during the Grand-Duc State visit to France, a memorandum of understanding on strengthening cooperation in the field of cross-border transport. Ratification of this protocol is therefore a necessary and significant step in addressing these crucial issues. As you know, I am particularly interested in cross-border issues, because I see it as the achievement of a concrete Europe, a Europe at the service of citizens, which can, through cross-border issues, give a guide and a path to wider European issues. The protocol aims to implement a multimodal and concerted transport policy that responds to the travel needs identified between France and Luxembourg, while taking into account a sustainable development perspective. This mobility strategy is set out in the Protocol by a development programme aimed at improving the quality of transport services between the Grand Est region and Luxembourg. The Metz-Thionville-Luxembourg rail link is approaching, in its current configuration, its capacity limit at peak hours. The planned developments will help to meet the saturation of this axis, expected by 2022-2024, and to achieve the goal of having eight TERs, one TGV and one freight train run per peak hour by 2030, a 2.5-fold increase in rail capacity compared to today. Of course, the rail mode alone cannot absorb all the flows of new frontier workers. Modes of transport must be understood as complementary. For example, in the road sector, it is planned to adapt existing infrastructures to promote a sustainable mobility policy, notably through programmes for the development of platforms and relay parks for cross-border coach services and carpooling. The Protocol also leaves open the possibility of financing the establishment of a public transport route on the A31 emergency stop band, before it has been extended to two times three lanes under the A31 bis project. First of all, this memorandum of understanding also lays the foundations for co-financing and not only for a one-time project, as was the case with the LGV – high-speed line – Luxembourg had made a substantial financial contribution, but a series of strategic developments in our territory. Luxembourg will contribute EUR 120 million to the financing of the development projects, with a view to a total contribution from Luxembourg representing 50% of the total cost of all the development projects on French territory. This protocol reflects the shared political will to respond to the problems posed by the movement of persons and goods between France and Luxembourg. It also responds to the daily transport needs of many Lorrains and will help to strengthen the vitality of the cross border territories, and more generally of the Greater East region, while reducing the environmental impact of transport. In this sense, it serves our government objectives, in accordance with the Mobility Orientation Bill. More broadly, this protocol could be the first step in a series of projects co-financed by France and Luxembourg. As you know, it does not give back a fraction of the tax levied on frontier workers, back to the usual practices between states in this case. Its financial contribution to co-constructed cross-border projects therefore rebalances this situation in part.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u4	Part of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u5	Moreover, this demand is not just a matter of financial fairness: it is clear that many issues can only be effectively addressed in a cross-border context. This Memorandum of Understanding is not only innovative because of the financial contribution negotiated with Luxembourg. It is also because of its global, multimodal and sustainable nature. It is particularly desirable that future projects built in partnership with Luxembourg retain this dimension by being extended to other areas. More generally, the development of such a protocol could be transposed to other neighbouring countries for which the implementation of cross-border projects would require the same treatment. As you know, the Quai d'Orsay was organized around an ambassador on cross-border issues to see precisely how our different partners, located around France, can work on these issues. Your approval today would be the cornerstone of a process that – as you have understood – goes far beyond the mere cross-border cooperation between France and Luxembourg. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – MM. Jean-Michel Clément and Christian Hutin also applaud]] These are the main observations called for by the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on strengthening cooperation in cross-border transport signed on 20 March 2018, which is the subject of the draft law now proposed for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u6	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u7	For several decades, the prosperity of the Luxembourg economy has been based on the increasing use of frontier workers residing in neighbouring countries, Belgium, Germany and even more France. 24% of employees on Luxembourg soil come from France and commute daily. They are about 100,000 and their number is increasing by more than 3000 per year. They contribute massively, not only to the economic prosperity of the Grand Duchy, but also to its fiscal ease, since the Grand Duchy collects tax from the source on their wages: the French borderers probably contribute about 500 million euros a year to the Luxembourg income tax. We have not been able to agree on the establishment of a recurring mechanism of tax compensation, which may sometimes exist in such cross-border situations. However, action was needed, as communities in the French border area also face significant challenges and costs. In particular, they must invest to meet the growing mobility needs that are mechanically accompanying the increase in the number of border workers. Aware of the need to act to improve the daily lives of cross-border workers, the Luxembourg authorities have declared themselves open to co-financing concrete projects that would respond to the difficulties encountered in border areas. Signed in March 2018, on the occasion of the State visit of the Grand Duke of Luxembourg to Paris, the Memorandum of Understanding submitted to our vote is innovative. For the first time, the Luxembourg authorities agree to co-finance the work of a local cross-border mobility programme at a level of EUR 120 million. I would point out that this EUR 120 million will be spent entirely on operations on French soil, and Luxembourg is also carrying out very important work on its own soil. Fifteen years ago, Luxembourg had already contributed EUR 117 million to the construction of the East high-speed line, but this was a one-off project. In this case, a coherent set of studies and works is the subject of the agreement. These are mainly rail, but there is also a multimodal dimension, with a desire to develop road public transport and carpooling. This multimodal character implies a high degree of partnership, coordination, between the authorities of the two countries but also on each side between the different administrations, communities and public transport undertakings. The work programme was developed with many partners. On the French side, it involves in particular the state administrations, the SNCF, the region, as the organising authority for rail transport, and the intercommunalities which will in particular be the owners of the car parks which are planned to be built. Beyond the funding stakes, bringing all these actors to sit at the same table is a very important contribution of this agreement. This was confirmed to me by the various personalities I have heard, who represented all these actors and whom I thank: the Grand Est region, with its president Jean Rottner, the Nord Lorrain frontier metropolitan pole, with its president Christian Ariès and its vice-presidents André Parthenay and Michel Liebgott, the ministry of ecological and solidarity transition, the regional direction of environment, planning and housing Grand Est, SNCF Réseau, and finally the Luxembourg authorities. The investment programme provided for in the agreement will have a significant impact on the supply of cross-border transport. Luxembourg will therefore contribute EUR 120 million, including EUR 110 million for railway works and the rest for studies and operations for the development of virtuous road mobility, such as carpooling. There will be a French contribution at parity: it is therefore a total envelope of 240 million euros, of which 220 million for the railway sector, which is thus released. The programme of railway works includes, initially, by 2022-2024, the extension of the wharfs of several stations on the Metz-Luxembourg line, the strengthening of the power supply of the line and the construction of new car parks in Thionville and Longwy. This will allow the movement of TER trains – regional express trains – longer, three-wheel drive trains – UM3 – which will offer nearly 1000 seats compared to 660 in the current trainsets. The capacity of the line will therefore be increased by 50%. By 2028-2030, a second phase of work will aim to modernize the line to increase the number of trains that will operate there: optimisation of the cantonment, creation of new points of change of track, signalling, removal of crossings at level, improvements of stations, and finally creation of a third-lane segment on a few kilometres on either side of the border, with this "freight bag" allowing the passenger trains, faster, to exceed those of freight. The work is expected to increase from a maximum of six ters per hour to eight ters per hour. The aim is to drive up to ten trains per hour, eight TERs, one TGV and one freight train. Overall, according to SNCF, all the work would increase from 12,000 passengers per day on the line currently to 34,000 in 2030. The number of seats available during the peak period would increase from 9000 today to 13000 in 2022-2024, and from 20,000 to 22000 in 2028-2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u8	The memorandum of understanding that I am presenting to you today is a kind of framework agreement: it sets out broad lines, but will have to be set out in a series of specific, more technical agreements and then implemented on the ground. It therefore leaves open a number of important questions. Its success will be based on the quality of partnership governance that will be put in place. Among the outstanding issues is eligibility for co-financing of expenditure, including studies undertaken prior to the final ratification of the Agreement, and the conclusion of technical implementing agreements. Traditionally, in the management of public funds, expenditure prior to the act enabling them to be taken over cannot be covered; but derogations are possible. This point should be clarified as soon as possible, if possible through announcements by both governments, before being incorporated into the implementation agreements, so as not to delay the launch of the various projects. The question of European subsidies also arises. Since the Metz-Luxembourg axis is located in one of the corridors of the trans-European transport network – RET-T – we can expect substantial European subsidies. They could be in the order of EUR 150 million if we get a subsidy rate close to the ceiling, which is possible for a cross-border rail-dominated project. The text mentions these subsidies, but it remains unclear how they relate to the €240 million expenditure envelope on which the two governments agreed. Should they be counted in it, relieving or adding to the Luxembourg and French commitments? In view of the foreseeable cost of the work, I believe that the second option must be imposed: European grants must come in addition to the EUR 240 million envelope. Another point remains uncertain: what would happen if the envelope were fully consumed before the completion of the investment programme of the agreement? The latter provided for this case: the French side would not be obliged to continue the adjustments provided for once the ceiling of the Luxembourg contribution has been reached. In the joint declaration concluding their joint seminar held in Paris on 20 March 2018, the two governments put in place a sort of re-visit clause, indicating that they would negotiate an amendment if such a situation occurred. The last point of uncertainty concerns the sharing of the French share of commitments, which must be equal to the EUR 120 million financed by Luxembourg. The text is silent on this point. Under the "golden rule" applicable to SNCF Réseau, this operator cannot be involved. This will therefore be discussed between the state, the Greater East region and the intercommunities. As I said, the implementation of the railway works programme contained in the agreement must lead to a significant increase in the capacity of the Metz-Luxembourg line. Daily traffic is expected to increase by more than 20,000 passengers, including more than 10,000 during peak periods. However, this may prove insufficient to absorb the increase in the number of frontier workers, since, if the current trend continues, they could be another 30,000 within ten years. It is therefore necessary to develop virtuous road mobility, which is one of the objectives of the agreement. Moreover, apart from the agreement, the doubling of the A31 motorway by the A31 bis motorway should be achieved over the next decade. In view of the importance of the needs, I hope that we can build other joint projects with our Luxembourg neighbours. This is particularly necessary for reasons of fairness, as long as they levy tax at source on the wages of the frontier workers, by refusing any permanent partial retrocession arrangements. Cross-border mobility seems to me to be a good field for this cooperation. But we must also think about alternatives, such as telework. Finally, other areas could also be involved, such as training. I would like briefly to stress this, since some may have the justified impression that the professionals trained in France, with taxpayers' money, then feed the Luxembourg labour market, which ultimately threatens the presence of many strategic jobs in our territories. The bill that I am inviting you to pass could thus set the stage for future issues, including training. It is in this cross-border daily that Europe is built, as the Secretary of State pointed out. The Luxembourg institutions ratified the agreement in record time: on 26 July 2018, four months after the signing of the agreement between the two governments, the Luxembourg Chamber of Deputies unanimously adopted the ratification law, which was promulgated on 7 September 2018. Although our neighbours are aware that the examination of an agreement by the French Parliament a little more than a year after its signature is a good performance compared to the usual deadlines, I think it is important to send a positive signal in the context of this partnership, by ratifying this text without delay. We will then be able to implement this investment programme, which is very much expected in the north of Lorraine. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Secondly, action will have to continue to improve the movement of the people of the Far East. This is already the case, particularly with the Grenelle des mobilités in Lorraine, at the launch of which I participated a few days ago. This joint initiative of the Greater Region and the European Metropolitan Centre of the Lorrain Trail must be an opportunity to initiate a collective reflection between the actors involved in the movement and the public authorities on the causes and consequences of mobility flows, but also on transport networks, at the level of the Lorrain territory and its borders. In the long run, we will be able to build action in the long term and in the interests of our fellow citizens. National representation must therefore take on its responsibilities on this subject today, in order to send a strong signal to build the mobility of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u9	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u10	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has recently examined several draft laws on cross-border agreements: one on health cooperation with Switzerland and Luxembourg, and the other on the tax status of Basel-Mulhouse airport. These texts are very important because they have a direct impact on the lives of our citizens in the border regions. And they are living agreements: they are not enough for themselves, the most important being their practical declination on the ground and over time. Our work must therefore not stop at the ratification of these texts, but must continue to make a concrete assessment of their implementation. I thank the rapporteur, Isabelle Rauch, for her report which sheds light on the issues at stake in the agreement with Luxembourg on cooperation in the field of transport. This agreement will have a direct impact on the lives of some 100,000 of our compatriots who travel daily to Luxembourg to work. The French borderers contribute to the economic development of Luxembourg. They are a source of tax revenue, since Luxembourg collects tax at source on their wages, for an annual amount of around EUR 500 million. At the same time, border jobs represent significant costs to our training system, our unemployment insurance and our local communities. It is therefore legitimate to ask Luxembourg for a financial contribution. This country has never agreed to consider the establishment of a permanent mechanism of retrocession, such as the one with the canton of Geneva. On the other hand, it agrees to co-finance jointly a total investment programme of EUR 240 million, mainly dedicated to railway development and virtuous road mobility projects. By increasing the daily capacity of the Metz-Luxembourg train line by more than 20,000 seats by 2030, this agreement will facilitate and improve the movement of border passengers. This is not the first time that a neighbouring country has participated in rail investments in France, but these contributions have always focused on projects already designed, such as the TGV East. These are still projects to be co-built. Their implementation will require all the partners, Luxembourg, and French, state services, the Grand Est region, SNCF and local and regional authorities, to sit at the same table and to cooperate. That is an extremely positive aspect. This agreement is ecological. It promotes the development of rail transport and other forms of soft mobility, such as carpooling. It will thus contribute to the fulfilment of our climate commitments. It is deeply European. Its cross-border nature and its inclusion in an important European transport corridor should allow us to benefit from substantial European co-financing, perhaps in the order of 40% of the costs, i.e. EUR 150 million. We must therefore, as the rapporteur has told us, adopt it without delay, which Luxembourg has already done last September, so that the planned work can begin quickly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We hope that the smooth running of this cooperation will push our Luxembourg partners to build other agreements with us, around other concrete projects. It is also how the European spirit will live!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u12	We come to the general discussion. Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u13	It's not a small text; It's not a little trick. This text is one of those which deserves to be studied and discussed in the Chamber, because it can help our fellow citizens to reconcile with Europe: as you said, Madam President, it has very simple elements which influence their daily lives. I am counting on you, Madam Secretary of State, to have other texts of this nature to consider. There are not many MPs in session – some cannot come on Mondays, because they work, this is understandable, in their constituency – but those who think this important subject are present, each group being represented to give their opinion. I myself am a cross-border Member of Parliament from Dunkirk, so I wondered what the differences were between our regions, the rapporteur. Well, there's a big difference! In my region, there are 24,000 cross-border workers, for the whole border with Belgium! At home, there are 100,000 – and it works! The point of this text is to accompany their increase, to reach 130000 or 140000 workers; And again, after talking to two or three economists, I think the figure of 130000 will be exceeded. It is very surprising to read in your report that almost one in two workers in Luxembourg is French. One in two workers! That's an exceptional proportion. There is work in Luxembourg, and the French, who are recruited for their skills, must be able to move and go there. The problem in the Dunkerquois region is the language spoken on the other side of the border, Flemish, which is not taught enough. And he is a Chevenmentist, so not a warm supporter of regional languages, who tells you – that proves that I am a Chevenmentist compatible with a lot of things! What we miss is the language. In West Flanders, the unemployment rate is 4%, so there is work for everyone, but there is the language barrier. With Jean-Michel Blanquer, we could think about how to improve our region's mastery of the language we lost. I am a supporter of the order of Villers-Cotterêts and of the common mastery of a language, French, but we could act for Flemish. This is the direction that the urban community of Dunkirk is beginning to take, to which I would like to pay tribute on this point. Let us mention the positive aspects of the agreement: for the first time, Luxembourg, a poor country, agrees to finance, with its small funds, a cross-border railway line of EUR 120 million. This is an excellent thing, which is a start called for to be extended. The second positive element is the carpooling and multimodality accompanying the railway line: the investment programme is therefore environmentally reasonable. The flats that can be brought to this text have been stressed, but why not repeat them? First of all, Luxembourg is making fun of us: people are working there and paying taxes, but this country has not been giving us a lot so far. So it can't really go well. Mr Juncker is very friendly, Mr Santer was very friendly, but they took advantage of it. This agreement is therefore a clear step forward. The current situation can be a problem for employers, of whom I am not the absolute defender, in terms of unemployment. French employers pay unemployment, not Luxembourg employers. Action is needed in this area, as this amounts to EUR 100 million, which is not a derisory amount for unemployment insurance. I agree with you, Madam rapporteur, that the possible intervention by Europe must be added to the EUR 240 million envelope and not to it. This is an essential point. There is a real work to be done on this subject, and it seems to me that the contribution of the European Union, on such subjects where the interests of two countries are so intertwined, should be greater. Another flat, which no one has mentioned so far, seems to me, concerns SNCF. This one's not coming in here. And why? I don't see why we don't integrate it more into this project, and I regret it. We're going to buy 18 trainsets in Normandy – I hope they'll be in good condition... We could, more often, promote our own national society. I don't know how long I have left...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u14	You have four and a half minutes left, Mr. Hutin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u15	[[Smile]] You're very kind, Madam President. I'll be very quick. It is in my life the ratification of a protocol of agreement that I have seen most quickly: that is, a TGV convention – certainly, for a beautiful TER, linking Metz to Luxembourg. Is it due to the fact that it is Luxembourg, therefore finance...? Forty-five conventions remain in stock, in which there is a little more human, human rights... and which are slow to be examined. But when it comes to finance, it's fun, we switch from TER to TGV! Four months for Europe, two months for France, it's still huge. I think we will soon be examining conventions that are more than twenty-five years old. You work whole nights to extract them from the archives – you do it very well, by the way, and this is the first time that we have done it since many legislatures; So it's exceptional. But, as I say again, this is a TGV convention for a TER that is very linked to finance! [[The chairman of the committee applauds]] We must always mention the right authors, and I hope, Madam Secretary of State, that you will not see any malignity on my part: the President of the Republic has declared that it is enough to cross the street to find work – which can happen. In the matter we are dealing with here, we must cross the border and the deputies of the Socialist and related group will cross the Rubicon to vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u16	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u17	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u18	The purpose of this draft law, as has been said by previous speakers, is to authorize the approval of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the strengthening of cooperation in cross-border transport. It was signed in Paris on 20 March 2018 on the occasion of the first Franco-Luxembourg intergovernmental seminar. He was very expected. Its objective is simple: to set up a multimodal and concerted transport policy that responds to the travel needs identified between France and Luxembourg, and more specifically to the needs of cross-border workers – all of which, of course, is based on a sustainable development perspective. For both our countries, the transport sector is a key issue. Indeed, the importance of flows is accentuated, in particular on cross-border roads which already support very high traffic and are regularly congested at peak times. Currently, 95,000 French residents work in Luxembourg and this figure is steadily increasing. The estimates predict that their number could reach 135,000 by 2030. The Luxembourg economy is therefore increasingly based on the employment of frontier workers residing in neighbouring countries, and that is why the mobility of these workers is an essential variable in the economic development of frontier territories. To illustrate the extent of this phenomenon, we can mention a figure: 46% of the employees employed on Luxembourg territory are border workers. The development of these jobs in Luxembourg undoubtedly offers opportunities, jobs or wages, which are very interesting for the French in border regions. However, it also entails significant public costs, both in terms of expenditure and tax revenue losses. As far as expenditure is concerned, border work places a heavy burden on the transport infrastructure and services available, forcing the State and local and regional authorities to make substantial investments which are not sufficient to avoid the increasing congestion of the roads. This is the case for the A3 motorway in Luxembourg and the A31 motorway in France. There are also significant costs associated with unemployment compensation for those who have lost their jobs – Christian Hutin reminded him earlier. In accordance with European law, it is the responsibility of the country of residence and gives rise to a very partial reimbursement by the former country of work. For 2017, UNEDIC, the French unemployment insurance company, estimated the net additional cost of taking care of the unemployed borderline at €708 million, of which 13% was for Luxembourg, or around €100 million financed by French companies for job seekers who contributed to Luxembourg. With regard to tax revenues, although resident in France, borderers working in Luxembourg pay the Luxembourg income tax, which is levied at source on their wages. The same applies to French resident pensioners receiving Luxembourg pensions. It is estimated that some 500 million euros will be saved from the French tax – and I do not count the difference in fuel prices: if you go to Mondorf-les-Bains, the price of petrol is about 1.07 euros per litre while it is at our house of 1.50 euros per litre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u19	That's right, we didn't talk about fuel prices!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u20	As these reservations of importance on this lack of equity are formulated, the first aim of the Protocol is to improve the quality of the transport services offered between the Grand Est region and Luxembourg, thanks on the one hand to the development of railway infrastructures to increase transport capacity by 2030, and on the other hand to road infrastructures to promote a sustainable mobility policy, such as platforms and relay parks development programmes for cross-border public road transport and carpooling. For example, the development, on the A31 motorway, of a public transport lane on the emergency stop band would allow for a substantial improvement in traffic on this axis. Similarly, the Metz-Thionville-Luxembourg rail axis suffers from frequent incidents and service irregularities related to the terrible saturation of the line. The second aim of the Protocol is to lay the foundations for co-financing and the implementation of the necessary railway and road infrastructure developments on French territory. The objectives are defined in a way that responds proportionately to the foreseeable increase in transport demand between the two countries over the next decade. The implementation of these arrangements will require a shared investment on an equal basis between France and Luxembourg, with a ceiling of EUR 120 million. This investment programme, of course progress, will have a significant impact on the supply of cross-border transport, particularly in the rail sector, the main sector concerned. It is expected to significantly increase passenger transport capacity on the Metz-Thionville-Luxembourg line from 12,000 to 34,000 passengers per day by 2030; and the maximum hourly capacity, especially at peak hours in the TERs, would double from 4000 to 8,000 seats. The Memorandum of Understanding thus sets out the broad lines of this large-scale project, but will obviously have to be set out in a series of specific, more technical agreements to be implemented on the ground. However, we must bear in mind that the success of a project of this importance will depend essentially on the quality of the partnership governance that will be set up for its realization. This Memorandum of Understanding thus embodies the political will shared by France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to respond to the issues related to the movement of persons and goods between these two territories. As you will have understood, IDU and Independent Members are satisfied with the ambition of this Memorandum of Understanding; it implements a border partnership to develop transport infrastructure for the common interest. And when we talk about supporting daily mobility, we must not forget the mobility of frontier workers, both for Luxembourg and for our other neighbours. For these reasons, we will vote without hesitation in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u21	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u22	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u23	Examining an agreement that affects cross-border transport cooperation is not usual for someone, like me, who comes from a province that still suffers from enclaving; But the exercise makes sense for someone who belongs to a group called Liberties and Territories, in which we share the vision of a Europe with safe, sustainable and connected transport. We want a more connected Europe in transport to make the European motto, "united in diversity", a tangible reality for every European, for every European. This diversity of territories is the strength of the European Union. It allows it to radiate outside, but also to resist the trials of time and to face the challenges that present itself to it. However, in order for the pieces of this coat of arlequin not to be detached from each other, it is necessary for the Member States to be ever more and better connected to each other. These links are, of course, made immaterial by common values which are the foundations of the European Union, but they also take shape thanks to the infrastructures which allow exchanges between European territories and thus contribute to their prosperity. Transport is one of the cornerstones of this trade and the growth of our territories. They are essential for the free movement of persons, goods and services. They play a large part in the economy and account for more than 9% of the EU's gross value added and employ around 11 million people. The trans-European transport network participates in this network. Integrated into a European transport policy, it aims to establish the infrastructures and interconnections that form the basis of the single market, in order to ensure the free movement of people and goods and to support growth, employment and competitiveness in the European Union. The European Commission's goal for the last six years is to build on the trans-European transport network to ensure that, by 2050, the travel time required for the vast majority of European businesses and citizens to reach this vast irrigation network in Europe is not more than 30 minutes. In France, we are still far from it: when we look at the map of the nine priority corridors defined in 2013 in this trans-European transport network for its development between 2014 and 2020, we can only see that a large part of the Atlantic arc, from Brittany to the Charentes, as well as all the regions of central France, are completely forgotten. We are thinking of ways that would contribute to the opening up of rural areas that feel left behind. The €26 billion dedicated to improving this transport network by next year have, however, involved 172 road, rail, river and maritime projects. In the next plan, the Government should really defend the European accessibility of French peripheral or landlocked territories. This need is all the more acute because the mobility policy bill, which has just been adopted by the National Assembly, does not specifically address the issue of financing transport infrastructure, particularly in rural areas. For the Member States, achieving an ambitious target of a limit of 30 minutes of travel time to this vast European network requires working together towards greater transport fluidity and sustainability, within the framework of bilateral relations inserted in a European scheme. That is the whole issue of the bill that is before us today. By approving the Memorandum of Understanding between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, we will contribute to the implementation of a multimodal and concerted transport policy that meets the travel needs identified and the sustainable development objectives. The Liberties and Territories Group believes that this Memorandum of Understanding is essential in order to provide a concrete response to several challenges that our two countries face in their cross-border connections. This includes the removal of bottlenecks, the modernisation of infrastructure, greater fluidity in cross-border flows, better interconnection between sustainable modes of transport, and the achievement of climate change objectives. The accessibility of the territories in compliance with sustainable development objectives is, for our group, a major challenge for economic growth; Our assembly must help to bring it to a successful conclusion. So we have a responsibility. This is all the more important given the clear recognition of the urgency of mobility: land transport links between the Grand Est region, France, and Luxembourg are experiencing significant and rapidly growing traffic. More than 95,000 frontier workers use the Metz-Thionville-Luxembourg route every day by road or rail. The impact study accompanying this agreement reveals that it could reach 135,000 cross-border workers within ten years. The Metz-Luxembourg axis is located on one of the largest transport corridors defined by the European Commission, which links the North Sea and its major seaports to Mediterranean Europe. This European corridor, called the "North Mediterranean Sea", is a structural element of the trans-European transport network and contributes to the economic growth of the territories it crosses. It therefore plays an essential role, not only for France and Luxembourg, but also for many other Member States. It is also clear that there is an urgent need for intermodality. We all appreciate, not without concern, how harmful the development of transport beyond environmental considerations is for the future. That is why, in our view, transport policies, like all public policies, need to be considered by setting sustainable development goals. This protocol is part of a European intermodality which includes road and rail routes as well as inland waterways. The implementation of sustainable, innovative and connected transport is essential for the achievement of the European Union's energy and climate objectives, as our societies become increasingly mobile. The good mobility of Franco-Luxembourg workers is not only an issue of cooperation between our two countries. It is also an issue of climate action, which supports the commitment of France and Luxembourg to the Alliance for the Decarbonisation of Transport. Behind this Memorandum of Understanding, the broader objective is to lead an active, ambitious and coordinated approach in the field of transport to implement the Paris Agreement. Acting for climate change requires that the world, shortly after 2050, reduce its net emissions to zero. This is a major challenge and requires bold action for a systemic transformation of the transport sector. France, Luxembourg and all Member States must therefore move towards cleaner and more efficient transport, both public and private. This protocol illustrates our two countries' willingness to implement a transport policy that meets these objectives, in particular by promoting rail transport and, more generally, public transport and carpooling. Indeed, by 2030, the objectives of the multimodal development projects provided for in this Protocol are to increase by 2.5 the number of daily passengers on the train, to double the number of co-cars and to triple the number of users on cross-border buses. By working towards a cleaner and more efficient mobility of cross-border workers, our two countries will also boost the local economy, for example by allowing the movement of cross-border and European freight trains, even at peak times, which is not possible today, and by promoting better traffic to border employment areas. The Libertés et Territoires Group is particularly committed to implementing more efficient transport policies aimed at greater trade flow, less polluting emissions, and increasing green growth for sustainable jobs at the heart of the territories. We believe that this Memorandum of Understanding between France and Luxembourg is part of our vision of a Europe of safe, sustainable and connected transport. That is why we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u24	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u25	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u26	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u27	This agreement between France and Luxembourg raises many questions that prevent me from adopting the enthusiasm shown by some of my colleagues and by the Government. My questions relate, on the one hand, to the logic behind this agreement, which seems to me to be an admission of weakness, but also to the compatibility of this text with the ecological requirement which must be at the centre of our policies and our concerns. First of all – it has been said and repeated several times in recent months – this agreement amounts to taking an additional step towards abandoning a mechanism which is still common in the European Union: that of tax retrocession. It must be said that Luxembourg, in the area of taxation, is much more generous with private actors than with its neighbours – and that is an understatement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u29	We agree. Instead, each frontier worker pays an average of EUR 15 000 a year in Luxembourg, and the increase in their number will bring this figure to EUR 1.5 billion a year. While this money is now totally out of Bercy's accounts and local authorities, it seems to me that our policy on border trade should go in the direction of returning to France on a part of those taxes levied by the Grand Duchy. In some French municipalities dependent on frontier employment, up to 70% of the working population passes the border daily, without being entitled to any financial compensation. Luxembourg's efforts in the agreement before us today are nothing in relation to the needs of the communities in terms of infrastructure, waste collection, maintenance of schools, etc. The foreseeable increase in the number of border workers – this has been said – with the creation of 100,000 to 160,000 additional jobs by 2035, makes this need obviously more pressing than ever. We therefore consider this agreement to be an admission of weakness, since it excludes any mechanism of tax retrocession. This mechanism is nothing like a blush, you can believe me. Established, for example, in 1973 between the canton of Geneva and the border departments of Ain and Haute-Savoie, it works quite properly. In 2019, 260 million euros were allocated between the two departments to be returned directly to the municipalities concerned. I do not believe that this operation is above ground, but on the contrary very effective, since it allows a fair sharing of wealth, by refusing to consider frontier workers as people who, at the bottom, would be disconnected from their territory. Luxembourg, however, seems to be deaf to this requirement of justice. This isn't the first time, you'll tell me. But the situation here is particularly difficult, because it affects our regions in a direct and visible way. While Luxembourg pays on average €7530 per resident per year to its municipalities, I believe that it should play its part in meeting the financial needs of territories that nourish and enable its vitality and, consequently, its economic attractiveness. A few months ago, during the study of a tax convention between France and Luxembourg, I strongly criticized this "policy of small steps" which prides itself on cultivating the compromise, while it is driven by permanent renunciation. With the agreement we are discussing today, this logic is again evident. It seems to me that it would have been necessary to post and negotiate more frankly on this field. I therefore wanted to express first of all my exasperation in the face of a country that does not take on its economic responsibilities, which plays the map of blackmail constantly, and which takes on a great prince's appearance by deaigning to participate in the financing of border transport infrastructures. As for the provisions of the text itself, I would like to recall here the ecological requirement that we must comply with. We pay for a lot of words, we make big speeches, but as soon as we get to the practical application, things are more complex, and, by trying to do as quickly as possible and thinking only about what can be done in the short term, we may sometimes miss solutions that would be better able to meet this environmental requirement. As such, I believe that the agreement before us today does not fit into the nails of the transition we are calling for. The increasing use of transport lines between the Grand Est region and Luxembourg is far from without consequence. Nearly 95,000 cross-border workers take the Metz-Thionville-Luxembourg road or rail route every day, and this figure is obviously set to increase considerably in the coming years. The consequences are not unknown to you: congestion of the roads, infringement of the railway network which manifests itself by very regular breakdowns, insufficient trainsets, not serving certain stations... The list of problems is long, much more than the patience of the users. Fortunately, by the way: I fully understand their impatience. While this agreement could have given the status of ecological border transport, it confirms, by triplanting the number of bus users and by approving the construction of relay car parks, a model of development which we are increasingly denouncing. Let me therefore, ladies and gentlemen, say a word about the need to develop railway lines. While this month of July is a period of crisis for the SNCF, which is confronted with the evils of what could be called its governance by the figure, or in any case its obsession with profitability to the detriment of the service of the whole territory, of the equality before its service and of the overriding concern of the energy transition, therefore of the ecological objective, I think it is useful to recall that our railway network covers little or no of our territory, and contributes to the reduction of social and territorial inequalities, and is a major asset in our fight against climate change. When one sees today the consequences of the disappearance of the windows, the exorbitant price of some trips – a Paris-Marseille or a Paris-Nice can cost less by plane than by train, that is to say that one literally walks on the head and there is, once again, a gulf between the words and the reality of the policies carried out! There is also the disappearance of some poorly maintained lines. All this gives a great sense of waste. The SNCF boss, Guillaume Pepy, called on last Friday, precisely, to discuss the future of the small railway lines threatened with disappearance – it is good to open the debate, but it always gives some concern about its outcome; and the minister of transport, Élisabeth Borne, instructed the prefect Philizot to make a complete diagnosis of it – very well, let's start with a diagnosis, hoping that it does not end with proposals for closure. In this context, it seems to me all the more important to restore meaning to this transport which is gradually abandoned by the public authorities. I would like to reiterate that the development of road transport as described in this agreement does not seem to us to meet the objectives of sustainable development and does not take full advantage of a rail network that we need to revitalize. In many other cases, lines have been removed. I even think, close to here, of the little Parisian belt. I remember this debate, in which I participated with the Communist Group in the Paris Council: a battle, to say that we should not close this line that allowed the transport of goods. We shut it down, and today we regret it. What worries me is the growing risk that calls for more carpooling – we are in favour of it, of course, is always better than being alone in his car – will remain without sufficient effect, despite the encouragements. I fear that, in total, the account will not be there, that the sharing will not really be on the rendezvous. Basically, we could have had more guarantees and commitments on the side of Luxembourg, and this agreement could have better respected our environmental objectives, ecologists. It is for this reason – without pretending that this text is scandalous – that we manifest our mood; The group La France insoumise will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u30	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u31	The bill leads us to question the border issue in Europe, a sensitive issue, since, despite the erasure of borders, the situations within the Schengen area are very different, whether it is the movement of people or trade or financial exchanges between Europeans. In order to solve the problems of displacement between Luxembourgers and French, our two States have decided to put a number of situations to the fore and to try to correct the imbalances which do not fail to arise. Four conventions were signed on 20 March 2018 between Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel and Édouard Philippe. This is the agreement on cross-border transport; a tax convention to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion and evasion; an additional protocol on scientific and academic cooperation; and an administrative cooperation agreement on the posting of workers and the prevention of undeclared or falsely declared work. The simultaneous signing of these four agreements was intended to show that France and Luxembourg were taking on board the cross-border issues facing our two States. I regret, however, that the same requirements have not prevailed for all agreements. They are, in fact, subjects on which the texts are very ambitious, and others on which greater flexibility is accepted. The agreement we are looking at – and it is very positive – is among those who have benefited from means and speed because Luxembourg seems to need labour and must do everything to attract French and German workers. On the other hand, the tax treaty is not adorned with the same ambition. It is excessively minimalist and maintains pretty holes in the French tax racket, so as not to upset Luxembourg and its legendary tax opacity. During its consideration in the Chamber on 14 February, the Communist MEPs opposed it on the grounds that the text did not take seriously the tragedy of tax evasion, of which Luxembourg is one of the world's players. These various agreements call for a common question: why not have established specific governance and negotiated a comprehensive cooperation agreement covering all these subjects in order to benefit from a comprehensive vision and solve all the difficulties at once? In addition to the fact that all the issues would have been discussed, we would have had greater room for manoeuvre in the negotiations: we could have thus demanded more firmness on the tax convention in return for the agreement on cross-border transport. Perhaps the political will to quickly conclude the transport agreement won over the need to end tax evasion. Yet it is not without concrete consequences for our territories. We must therefore act in favour of social and fiscal harmonisation from the top. One of the conventions concerns secondment work, which is an example of the absolute necessity of the latter. Nevertheless, the agreement remains positive. Beyond the criticism of the fragmentation of agreements, it is necessary to work towards the realization of the work that will facilitate the lives of tens of thousands of people. The agreement provides for the financing at parity between France and Luxembourg, amounting to EUR 120 million, of transport projects on the French-side cross-border zone. This work is intended to promote multimodality enabling workers to move from their personal vehicles to trains, buses or carpools. They will thus encourage mobilitys that are more environmentally friendly and more comfortable for users on a daily basis. However, we have the right to question the planning of the territory and the location of jobs. The flow of cross-border workers is very large and is expected to increase. According to the explanatory memorandum, rail traffic is expected to increase by 2030 from 12,000 daily passengers to 34,000, while the number of seats required in transport will increase from 9,000 to 13,000 in 2022-2024 and from 20,000 to 22,000 in 2028-2030. The A31 and A31 bis motorways will be doubled and will include lanes reserved for public transport and carpooling. Will investments in rail transport be up to date? Like Clementine Autain, I am thinking of the small lines and mesh of our territory without which the effectiveness of the decisions we make today will be very limited. Will public transport be accessible? We could draw on Luxembourg's free public transport policy and launch an experiment in the cross-border area. Free living is one of the best solutions to solve the problems of the displacement of our citizens and of ecology. It is indeed one of the most innovative and effective public policies to facilitate the lives of our citizens. In Aubagne, this experience was more than conclusive – the same is true in Dunkirk and Clermont-Ferrand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u32	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u33	This facilitates mobility and life in transport, significantly increased purchasing power, clear ecological benefits, and the number of cars falling when public transport routes are well thought out. That should inspire us. Free parking could also apply to relay parking. Moreover, public management of road and rail infrastructure should be the rule. Given the stakes, no money should fund dividends. The economic interests at stake are undeniable because public infrastructure is necessary for economic actors. It should be remembered more often and choices made that allow for social and ecological development. Financing infrastructure investments is not a neutral issue. On the one hand, States cannot be asked to invest and, on the other, they cannot seek to limit their contributions to increase their dividends, stock portfolios or offshore accounts. In this case, it would be fair for each country to pay its share – we are not yet there – but cooperation to meet common challenges, including environmental challenges, can make sense provided that it does not reinforce the liberal embolism that remains the general framework within which this agreement is built. Public investment in cooperation should be a more sought-after route. [[MM. Jean-Michel Clément, Christian Hutin and Belkhir Belhaddad applaud]] That is why, despite the criticisms I have been able to make, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u34	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u35	Mobility is a major issue for young people, workers and all those who want or need to travel on an ad hoc or regular basis across the border. In metropolitan France, when we are bordering – which is my case – we live in a particular area where the word "Schengen" takes on its full meaning. We are constantly adapting to the rules of two countries and we are aware of opportunities on both sides of the border. Cooperation agreements are essential to improve our daily lives. The agreement that we are about to vote on is unprecedented, since it does not concern a single project, but a series of projects in a territory with this particular feature, to see 100,000 French residents come to work there every day. This daily flow has significant effects on peak-hour traffic on motorways A3 in Luxembourg and A31 in France and on the saturated Metz-Thionville-Luxembourg rail axis. In order to meet the demands of border areas and satisfy their inhabitants, we must rethink and improve transport. This protocol is particularly important since it establishes an ambitious and concerted multimodal transport policy to meet the travel needs identified in France and Luxembourg. It thus embodies the strong political will to respond to the challenges of mobility of people and goods between our two countries, while emphasizing the importance of developing sustainable alternative transport – an objective that I believe we all share. To this end, the Agreement provides for railway and road developments. In addition to meeting the needs of our workers, the Government wants to respond to the climate emergency. Priority will therefore be given to rail transport: 220 of the €240 million planned to finance the improvements will be allocated to rail, with a focus on cleaner transport. Trains will be extended to accommodate more passengers while stations will see their capacity increase. Thanks to this protocol, we will be able, by 2028-2030, to operate ten trains per hour at peak times in each direction. This is a real step forward since the number of users will thus be multiplied by 2.5. As regards road developments, the agreement aims to promote more sustainable mobility by promoting the use of carpooling and public transport on the Metz-Luxembourg motorway. The route that will be reserved for these two modes of transport will make the journeys faster and, consequently, more attractive. People interested in carpooling will be able to connect through an application. The figures are very telling: at present, the occupancy rate is 1.2 persons per car, or 250,000 vacant seats every morning towards Luxembourg City. We will vote today on a necessary agreement. Indeed, by encouraging borderers to use train, road public transport or carpooling, they improve their quality of life and the quality of the air they breathe. Mobility becomes easier, faster, more virtuous. Moreover, by consolidating primary networks, the use of secondary roads is discouraged – a definite advantage for the inhabitants of villages crossed each morning by hundreds of motorists trying to escape traffic jams due to the saturation of the main axes. This protocol is a relevant and indispensable framework agreement for Franco-Luxembourg cross-borders. The number of French workers in Luxembourg continues to grow, creating new needs in terms of planning, financing or training. As I am elected from a border constituency, I appreciate the importance of these agreements, which must be long-term, in order to constantly adapt to the developments of the two countries. In the future, it would be interesting to conclude other bilateral agreements by considering these areas as specific territories, for which adjustments are necessary. I call on you to vote in favour of approving the protocol so that it can enter into force quickly. For the record, the Luxembourg Chamber of Deputies ratified it in July 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u36	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u37	The convergence of views between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on a number of subjects is no longer to be demonstrated, whether it concerns the protection of the environment or the defence of the territories, culture or the guidelines of the European Union. This bill also attests to our common vision on cross-border transportation. Far from ensuring a better mobility of French and Luxembourg residents in the cross-border zone, the Memorandum of Understanding concluded between our two countries, whose draft law tends to allow approval, is above all a symbol of better consideration of the difficulties caused by their geographical residence. By promoting the mobility of people between France and Luxembourg, this Memorandum of Understanding is likely to promote the local economy by allowing better movement to border employment areas as well as optimisation of cross-border and European trade in goods. The stakes are also practical. The number of people working in Luxembourg while residing in France continues to grow: more than 95,000 cross-border workers use the Metz-Thionville-Luxembourg route every day by road or rail, leading to significant congestion on border roads. It is estimated that this number could reach 135,000 by 2030. Our collective responsibility therefore commits us to reorganize these flows by developing multimodality, which also has an ecological virtue. By developing multimodal transport between our two countries, we are entering the air of time. Foreseeing the installation of relay car parks and carpooling platforms, this protocol presents a global dimension, adapted to the challenges facing us, which we can only satisfy. In this regard, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes the fact that the drafting of this Memorandum of Understanding has led to the consultation of state administrations, transport operators, regions and inter-communities. This is not annoyance, and we stress it. Ecology is not alien to transport. Each of our two countries thinks so, as evidenced by their membership in the Transport Decarbonisation Alliance, which aims to combat carbon emissions from vehicles and to promote sustainable mobility. In so far as it strengthens rail cooperation and, more generally, public transport, but also carpooling, between France and Luxembourg, and where it tends to ensure the continuity of international and cross-border services, this text is likely to organise the cross-border mobility of tomorrow, cleaner and better adapted to the needs of our citizens. This memorandum of understanding also aims at a social objective: it will encourage the movement of French residents in the Luxembourg employment pool, whether or not they own a private vehicle. The most vulnerable people will therefore see their mobility increase, which the MODEM group can only rejoice in. France provides the main quota of frontier workers in Luxembourg, with their workforce tripled between 1995 and 2018, from 29000 to 102000 employees. However, the road and motorway network has not kept up with this development, while rail services have only been moderately improved and increased. This must prompt us to act. Nevertheless, the effort must be shared between our two countries. If this framework agreement is to be clarified by implementing texts, we can already welcome a principle of joint financing between France and Luxembourg, with the Luxembourg contribution amounting to EUR 120 million. This is the first time that co-financing of this magnitude has taken place within the framework of a Franco-Luxembourg agreement. We hope that this initiative will announce many more. Like the rapporteur, who has expressed reservations about this, the MODEM Group will pay particular attention to the treatment of possible European grants and to the governance of this agreement, which will be a key issue in implementing conventions and concrete projects. The approval of this Memorandum of Understanding will also be an important step towards other Franco-Luxembourg joint projects which would prove necessary. If this protocol is welcome, we must bear in mind that it may not be sufficient to absorb future needs in view of the increase in the number of cross-border workers. Faced with this problem, it is more necessary than ever to agree to contribute regularly to cross-border projects co-built by our two countries. This protocol, of course, makes a major contribution to this dynamic. This is all the more important since the current situation is likely to lead – I would like to stress this – to heavy public investment for France. The approximately 100,000 French workers in Luxembourg contribute massively to the economic prosperity of the Grand Duchy, but also to the health of its tax revenues. Since our two countries have failed to agree on a tax compensation scheme, as it may exist in such situations – the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has already cited the example of the canton of Geneva – we must act in favour of the border communities affected by important work, in particular by the investments in mobility made necessary by the mechanical increase in the number of cross-border workers. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Aware of the importance of cooperation between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on these matters, the MODEM Group will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u38	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u39	It has been two years since I, as a French Member of Parliament established outside France, have been in contact with our compatriots residing in Luxembourg or bordering the Grand Duchy. I am of course thinking of them today: the 100,000 motorists who travel through the Metz-Luxembourg route to cross the border, the 12,000 passengers who travel on the Nancy-Luxembourg regional express train line every day, and all those who promote the European ideal of mobility and professional and cultural exchanges. I think of all the times when these fellow citizens have alerted us to the difficulties they were encountering on a daily basis, in particular because of the congestion of cross-border motorway routes or the numerous malfunctions affecting the railway lines between France and Luxembourg: problems of speed, congestion of traffic and, at times, of outdated infrastructure. The text we are looking at today provides a number of practical answers to these everyday problems, and this is to be welcomed. Above all, the answers provided allow us to draw a model of virtuous mobility that corresponds in every respect to the ambitions of our majority in terms of ecological transition. France and Luxembourg agree for the first time to co-finance investment programmes for rail and carpooling for a total of EUR 240 million. All this is not insignificant: this is the first time such foreign co-financing has been provided to a multimodal project. Luxembourg has also advanced on other virtuous mobility measures to benefit French cross-borders. I am thinking in particular of free train and public transport. In total, 13,000 places will be offered to cross-border passengers on trains by 2024, then 22000 by 2030, compared to only 9000 today. These border areas have human and economic specificities. I think that Europe has a lot to contribute to their development, including a real dynamic around employment, competitiveness and, of course, growth. Let us not forget that more than one third of Europeans today live in a cross-border area, of which 20% live in France. In September 2017, the European Commission launched an expert forum entitled "Border Contact Point" to strengthen dialogue between Member States and regions on cross-border issues, share good practices and support the implementation of concrete projects. As far as the precise question of cross-border mobility between France and Luxembourg is concerned, the Metz-Luxembourg axis is located on one of the corridors of the trans-European transport network. As such, we could quite imagine significant European subsidies for this axis. We could hope for around EUR 150 million, of course in addition to the EUR 240 million that France and Luxembourg have committed to. For me, I repeat, an effective European regional policy is a policy which knows how to optimize these cross-border areas, which make the Schengen area rich and which contribute to the competitiveness of our continent. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to fully support this bill, which seals an agreement that is more than beneficial to our cross-border citizens and paves the way for a European regional policy of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u40	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u41	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u42	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u43	This Memorandum of Understanding between France and Luxembourg is important and very positive, because for the first time, Luxembourg will be holding hands. In addition, this text will provide a concrete response to the mobility needs of our citizens – I do not recall the figures mentioned above on this subject. For years we have been trying to convince the Luxembourgers to conclude an agreement, as there is one with Belgium, so that part of the income tax paid by the borderers of the Grand Duchy will be remitted. The case is often summarized by the formula given by the Luxembourg Prime Minister, Xavier Bettel, in 2018: "I don't want to pay for a mayor's Christmas decoration. » You can see the state of mind of our Luxembourg friends... This memorandum of understanding will help to remedy the situation. If Luxembourg paid France between EUR 150 and 170 million a year, we could finance, for example, the A31 bis without tolls. Through you, Madam Secretary of State, I call on the Government to continue to show a strong demand for Luxembourg, the challenge being greater fairness and justice between our two countries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, we must also consider this dossier as a tool for the genuine co-development of our two countries. We could set up cooperation bodies to ensure that our policies are coherent, in the interests of both Luxembourg and the border.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u44	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u45	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part (No 1567, 1799).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u46	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u47	You are proposed to consider the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Armenia, on the other. Deep and ancient bonds of friendship unite our country with the Republic of Armenia. The review of this bill comes at a turning point for Armenia's future, a year and a half after the "velvet revolution" of spring 2018, which led to a peaceful transmission of power in Yerevan. With the ratification of this bill, it is a matter of reaffirming the strength of these ties and our willingness to deepen them further. This so-called "global and strengthened" agreement marks a step forward for cooperation between Armenia and the European Union. We must rejoice, for this progress was not self-evident. This agreement was in fact negotiated following Armenia's refusal to conclude an association agreement with the European Union because of its sovereign decision to join the Eurasian Economic Union. Armenia's new membership of the Eurasian Customs Union made it impossible to sign an association agreement with the European Union, such an agreement still providing for the establishment of a free trade area. It was on our initiative, specifically at the request of the President of the Republic during his visit to Armenia from 11 to 13 May 2014, that the European Union managed to break this impasse, proposing to Armenia to conclude an agreement in a singular formula, inspired by the agreement reached with Kazakhstan in 2015, so that it could reconcile its strategic orientations with its desire to deepen its relations with the European Union. The comprehensive and strengthened agreement whose ratification is now subject to your authorization is the fruit of this history. The text we are interested in today is therefore less ambitious than a conventional association agreement, since it does not include a free trade component. However, it is comprehensive and in-depth, "global and strengthened" as rightly stated in its exact name. With seven titles, nearly 400 articles, twelve annexes, two protocols and a joint declaration, the agreement provides for very wide-scale cooperation in all fields: political and economic, but also legal, financial, commercial, social and cultural. As is often the case with agreements concluded by the European Union with its Eastern partners, the cornerstone of this text is support for democracy and the rule of law. These values are obviously at the heart of the European project. It is therefore normal that they should be included in a cooperation agreement. They are also at the heart of the concerns of Armenian citizens, who demonstrated with energy and dignity, during last spring's revolution, their determination to make these principles a concrete reality in their country. This text does not provide for a free trade agreement, but it substantially modernises the framework for relations between Armenia and the European Union, both economically and commercially – it had not been since 1996. By facilitating trade and investment, reaffirming the commitment to the principles of international trade and the World Trade Organisation (WTO), ensuring better protection of intellectual property, enhancing transparency in access to and award of public contracts, the Agreement aims to develop close economic cooperation between Armenia and the European Union for the benefit of all parties. But the areas covered by the agreement go beyond the political and economic aspects alone – as we have said. It provides for approximation of legislation and increased cooperation in areas such as the environment, climate, energy, transport, culture and research and innovation. I know the importance you attach to all of these subjects. This text echoes your encouragement: we have been careful throughout the negotiations to ensure that the provisions of the agreement are in line with the interests of Armenia, the European Union and the Member States, in accordance with national and European legislation. For France, this meant first of all a high level of vigilance with regard to the protection of our geographical indications, while the appellations "cognac" and "champagne" have been used unduly in Armenia since the mid-19th century – this is not an anecdote. The solution found in the agreement is the result of an important work of pedagogy, to raise awareness among our Armenian partners about the approach of trademarks and geographical indications. The agreement organises very precisely the steps that will lead to the definitive extinction of the improper use of these names in Armenia, and we will of course be attentive to the respect of these steps and the deadlines set.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u49	Another issue of particular importance to us was the provisions on the safety and improvement of the Medzamor nuclear power plant. The agreement governs the continued operation of the nuclear reactor and sets out the means to achieve high levels of nuclear safety and security, pending the final closure of the reactor, as provided for in the agreement. Let me finally clarify the total lack of impact of this agreement on mobility. As you know, visa liberalisation processes are very specific and fall within a specific methodology, distinct from the cooperation agreement that is before you today. In conclusion, the issue of ratification of the agreement is threefold. First of all, we must strongly reaffirm our support for Armenia's democracy and economic and social development, a year and a half after the peaceful revolution that brought to light the democratic aspirations of the Armenian people. I know that many of you in this House share this concern, in particular thanks to the dynamism of your friendship group, and wish to show our solidarity with Armenia in its transition to a State fully respectful of the European values of the rule of law, democracy, freedom, the fight against corruption, but also of prosperity and economic and social modernity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u50	And it's progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u51	Secondly, this agreement reaffirms France's commitment to a strong and ambitious European policy in its neighbourhood, particularly in the eastern region. We must not forget that, while the European Union is experiencing peace today, its immediate surroundings remain plagued by persistent and destabilizing crises, old and new. France is making every effort to contribute to the stability of Eastern Europe: in the Caucasus, France remains fully mobilized to resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, as co-chair of the Minsk Group of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. In Ukraine, as you also know, we are working actively, in particular with our German partners, to relaunch negotiations in Normandy format. The 21st EU-Ukraine Summit will take place very soon on 8 July, followed by a first meeting of the diplomatic sherpas on 12 July. Finally, we can mention a revival of the Minsk trilateral contact group in order to facilitate the settlement of the crisis in Donbass. With regard to Moldova, which was going through a serious political crisis a few weeks ago, I was the first foreign minister to receive, outside Moldova, Minister for Foreign Affairs Nicolae Popescu. The new government to which it belongs is now recognized by all as legitimate, following the peaceful transition from the previous one. Thirdly, this agreement also contributes to the consolidation of our bilateral relations. Our political relations with Armenia are excellent. We must now work together, with our Armenian partners, to strengthen our economic relations. In 2018, France was already ranked third among the country's European suppliers. The comprehensive and strengthened agreement provides an opportunity for our companies to strengthen their presence in Armenia and to support this country in the economic transition, particularly digital, which Mr Pachinian calls for. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are, Madam President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the main observations called for by the comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Armenia, on the other, which is the subject of the draft law proposed for your approval today – and which I have no doubt will receive broad and full support from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u52	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u53	The agreement between the European Union and Armenia on the agenda of this House is a text of great importance. Indeed, both sides were able to find a compromise reflecting their common desire for partnership, while taking into account geopolitical constraints. From a European point of view, this agreement is part of the so-called "neighbourhood policy", and more specifically in its declination for the Union's eastern neighbours, formalized in 2009 as the "Eastern Partnership". The aim of this policy, which is directed towards six former Soviet republics, is to offer them the widest possible integration into the European area, without opening up any explicit prospects for accession. Three Eastern partners, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, signed such agreements in 2014. Two others, Belarus and Azerbaijan, were not interested because of their political choices. Armenia was therefore the last of the six former Soviet republics not to have signed a partnership agreement with the European Union. However, through its tropism towards European values, this country occupies a key role in the neighbourhood policy. A very large diaspora of Armenian origin lives in Western countries, particularly in the United States and France, creating very strong ties with the West. Almost a quarter of external trade takes place with the European Union. Finally, last year the Armenian people demonstrated their commitment to democratic values during what was called the "vellure revolution" in April 2018. Voluntaryly oriented towards Europe, however, Armenia wishes to maintain a very close strategic alliance with Russia, in accordance with its vital interests. Armenian foreign policy remains determined by the consequences of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. This conflict was one of the most terrible of the end of the USSR, causing 30,000 deaths and forced exile of 1.2 million people. It has been calmed since the 1994 ceasefire, but has never been formally resolved politically. At present, the climate is appeased and even negotiated, thanks in particular to the activity of the Minsk Group. As a result, Armenia can hardly dispense with Russia's strategic reinsurance. When Russia formed the Eurasian Economic Union in 2015, inviting its allies from among the former Soviet republics, Armenia naturally decided to join. It is a customs union, so that its members transfer their trade sovereignty to it. Under these circumstances, Armenia could not sign an association agreement with the European Union, including a free trade component. That is why it has interrupted the negotiations that have been under way for several years. In this context, the European Union and Armenia have since 2015 sought an alternative solution and negotiated the agreement we are considering today, signed in 2017. This "tailor-made" text is broad, ambitious, legally binding, but does not take the form of an association agreement. It establishes a so-called "global and strengthened" partnership. With nearly 400 articles, 12 annexes, 2 protocols and a joint declaration, this text is a very rough, very comprehensive document dealing with many topics. The breadth of the scope of intervention explains, moreover, that it is a "mixed agreement", which exceeds the European Union's own powers, and as such is subject to ratification by each of the Member States of the Union, even though most of these provisions have already entered into force on a provisional basis. Many clauses are generic provisions, present in most EU agreements, with varying legal scope. In particular, they recall the adherence of the signatory parties to major common principles such as democracy, human rights, multilateralism, sustainable development, etc., or anticipate that they will cooperate in many areas. Among the areas of cooperation are nuclear energy. From a formal point of view, it is for this reason that the agreement has also been signed on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), since it remains legally separate from the European Union and must therefore be a party to the Treaties concerning its competence. Beyond the formal question, this reference to atomic energy is a particular issue in the case of Armenia. The country continues to operate the Medzamor nuclear power plant, located 30 kilometres from its capital, in the heart of its only large agricultural plain, and 16 kilometres from Turkey. Its operation had been interrupted following the Chernobyl disaster and the terrible earthquake that ravaged northern Armenia in 1988, but was resumed in 1995 when the country was facing a very difficult economic situation and the blockade of two of its neighbours. Medzamor supplies more than 40% of Armenian electricity; We understand its strategic nature. Already in 1999, the action plan accompanying the previous partnership agreement between the European Union and Armenia provided for the development of alternative energy sources to bring about a definitive closure of the plant. Compensatory aid of EUR 100 million had been proposed. But nothing has been done. Article 42 of this Agreement therefore provides for cooperation in the energy field which explicitly covers nuclear safety. It is stipulated that this cooperation covers not only measures for the exchange of good practice and training, but also "the closure and safe decommissioning of the Medzamor nuclear power plant and the rapid adoption of a road map or action plan for this purpose, taking into account the need to replace this plant with new capacities". There is therefore a form of commitment to shutting down the plant, but conditioned by the development of alternative electrical capacities. With regard to trade and economic measures, as I said, Armenia's membership of the Eurasian Economic Union prohibits any specific commitment to customs duties. The agreement therefore only recalls WTO commitments. However, the agreement includes new commitments by Armenia in certain so-called non-tariff areas. For example, Armenia is committed to bringing its legislation into line with that of the European Union, after varying time limits, in the area of public procurement, with the requirements that this entails, or with the regulation of several service sectors, such as computer services, electronic communication, postal services, financial services, transport and electronic commerce. Finally, we must say a word about an issue that is of particular interest to our country. The European Union has called on Armenia, as it does with its other partners, to respect and protect its geographical indications. That is why Article 237 of the Agreement provides for Armenia to renounce the names at issue, at the end of a transitional period, short for champagne, longer for cognac, since it is thirteen years for in-house sale and even twenty-four years for export, provided that the labels are not written in Latin characters and cannot mislead the consumer as to the true nature of these beverages. I would remind you that the main issue is the Russian market. In return, the European Union undertakes in the agreement to provide technical and financial assistance to Armenia for the creation of a new name alternative to that of "cognac" and for promotion and marketing measures aimed at avoiding inconvenience in terms of competitiveness. This issue is being followed carefully by our administrations. Finally, I would like to raise an issue on which the agreement does not include new and binding commitments, but which is sensitive: the conditions for the movement of men and women between Armenia and the European Union. Armenia, like other countries in the neighbourhood of the European Union, wishes to achieve as soon as possible the abolition of the visa requirement for its citizens entering the Schengen area, for stays of less than three months – Moldovans already benefiting from this exemption since 2014, Georgians and Ukrainians since 2017. However, it should be noted that with all countries and not only Armenia, this sensitive issue is dealt with separately from the major agreements of general scope. With all of them, the Union has organised a specific dialogue, including successive phases and verifications of compliance with the commitments made, in order to control the security and migration risks. The same must be true with Armenia. This is why the agreement recalls, in its preamble, that "the strengthening of the mobility of citizens [...] in a safe and well managed environment remains an essential objective", but refers the issue of visas to a dialogue that will be opened "in due course", "as long as the conditions [...] are met". There is therefore no new commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u54	To date, nine Member States have ratified the agreement we are discussing today – or rather ten Member States, if we count the United Kingdom that is about to leave the European Union. It is in the interest of France and Armenia that we ratify this agreement quickly. Indeed, we have a special relationship with the Armenian Republic, which is not only concerned with economic issues – which remain relatively limited – but also with the strength of the human and emotional ties between our two countries. Half a million of our compatriots have a more or less distant Armenian background. They enrich France and its culture, in the image of Charles Aznavour's symbolic personality. France is the country that hosts the largest community of Armenian origin in Europe, outside Russia. In addition, 20,000 Armenians in the strict sense, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Armenia, reside or stay on our soil for a long time. There are many bilateral co-operations between our countries, including many decentralized co-operations. Our political relations are excellent, and meetings are frequent at the highest level of both Executives. Everyone knows with what vigour our assembly debated the recognition of the genocide of 1915, and the negationism to which it could be subjected. In accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, this genocide was commemorated on 24 April. The Prime Minister gave a very fair and fine speech on this occasion. While most of the provisions of this Agreement have already entered into force on a provisional basis – as is generally the case with the Europe Agreements – this is not the case with all its articles, particularly the one dealing with nuclear safety. These articles will only apply once all Member States have ratified the text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] France must therefore quickly express its approval of this agreement, which renews relations between the European Union and Armenia. I invite you to vote in favour of this bill, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u55	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u56	I am pleased to speak on this comprehensive and strengthened European partnership agreement with Armenia. This agreement is dear to us, because it concerns a country with which we have a very special, close and intimate relationship. In deciding to officially commemorate the Armenian genocide on 24 April, the President of the Republic recognized the importance of our common history with the Armenian people. This debate is timely, because Armenia is undergoing a political development that we must support. By leading Nikol Pachinian through a peaceful revolution, Armenians have shown that they want more democracy and less corruption. We can only endorse and support these demands. We must also support the steps that are being taken to seek a solution to the Nagorno-Karabagh conflict. As co-chair of the Minsk Group, France has a special responsibility in this regard. The Armenian and Azerbaijani leaders met on several occasions. However, incidents have recently recurred on the front line. It is essential that the discussions progress, even if they are expected to be arduous, as the principled positions of the two countries are difficult to reconcile. This partnership agreement is an intelligent agreement. In the recent past, European foreign policy has not always found the right cursor in its neighbourhood policy. The European Union must accept the idea that neither geography nor history will be changed in this part of the world, and that there are two objectives at the same time: to strengthen a strategic partnership with the Eastern Partnership countries around European values, without denying the need for these countries to maintain neighbourly relations with Russia. This time, the European Union and Armenia have been able to find a formula that allows them to strengthen their ties of friendship and cooperation without forcing Armenia to dissociate its very close relations with Russia for strategic reasons. Thus, the partnership agreement is compatible with Armenia's membership of the Eurasian Economic Union. Finally, this agreement is useful. It deals with important subjects of cooperation, particularly in the field of energy. We are trying to convince our Armenian friends to close, with the help and support of Europe, the Medzamor nuclear power plant built in the seismic zone of the Soviet Union. The decision will be difficult, given that this plant represents one third of the country's energy resources. We must therefore help Armenia to put in place an alternative energy strategy. I come to another issue dealt with in the agreement and of particular interest to France, that of the Armenian brandy exported to Russia since the mid-19th century under the name of cognac. Armenia is committed to abandoning this designation. It will benefit from a period of transition and European aid, as these exports represent a considerable socio-economic challenge for it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group and the LaREM group]] I thank Isabelle Rauch once again who has approached the partnership with Armenia with great relevance. Our committee has enthusiastically passed this bill, and I hope the National Assembly will do so as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u57	In the general debate, Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u58	Armenia, this beautiful country of the Caucasus at the crossroads of Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia, and which is so dear to us! Armenia has a great people, in ancient and often tragic history, bruised by the painful episode of genocide in which two thirds of Armenians living in the territory of the present-day Turkey perished as a result of deportations, famines and massacres. The Republic of Armenia is now a landlocked country with no access to the sea. Although armed clashes have remained limited since the 1994 ceasefire, the country remains in a state of war with one of its neighbours, Azerbaijan. For obvious historical reasons, its diplomatic relations are very difficult and restricted with Turkey, whose border is closed. This situation leads Armenia to rely on its alliance with Russia, at the cost of a strong geopolitical and economic dependence. Although there is no question of forthcoming accession, in particular because of the geopolitical constraints I have just mentioned, Armenia has always shown a willingness to get closer to the European Union. Moreover, Armenians adhere massively to European and democratic values. Moreover, its particular geographical position can enable the country to play a decisive role in dialogue with all actors in the region. That is why it is important to maintain and even strengthen the partnerships that the European Union can have with it. France and Armenia have a very strong history and emotional ties. So half a million of our citizens are of Armenian origin. France is strongly involved in the Minsk group, which has been trying for 25 years to contribute to the settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Numerous bilateral cooperation programmes are in place between our countries, particularly in the academic field, and often at the initiative of local and regional authorities. It was also under the impetus of France that the European Union and Armenia launched new negotiations in December 2015 to replace the previous Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed on 22 April 1996. This new and strengthened global partnership agreement ensures that it remains compatible with the commitments made by Armenia in the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, of which Armenia has been a member since 2 January 2015. It follows the aborted occasion of the 2014 Association Agreements, which only ended with Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine – Armenia having finally declined the European Union's offer. The agreement we have to reach today has been tailor-made for Armenia. It draws heavily on the strengthened partnership agreement with Kazakhstan, reconciling Armenia's desire to move closer to the European Union and its membership of the Eurasian Economic Union founded by Russia. The aim of this new agreement, signed in November 2017, is to bring about regulatory harmonisation in the energy, transport and environment sectors, as well as further cooperation on international issues. It will serve as a basis for deepening the political dialogue between the European Union and Armenia on a common commitment to democracy, human rights and the rule of law. With its 400 articles, its 12 annexes, its 2 protocols and its joint declaration, this new and very dense agreement establishes genuine enhanced cooperation in the political, legal, economic, commercial, social, financial and cultural fields. It will create new opportunities for trade and investment, while ensuring the protection of French and European geographical indications and the implementation of a regular political dialogue. Although it deepens the relationship and cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia, this text is less ambitious than the Association Agreements negotiated between the European Union, Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova. We may regret the absence of free trade clauses, but they would have been incompatible with Armenia's membership of the Eurasian Economic Union. It should be recalled that Armenia has developed close relations with Russia. Its strategic alliance with the latter is the preservation of its vital interests, taking into account, inter alia, the consequences of the bloody conflict in Nagorno-Karabagh, which calmed down with the 1994 ceasefire but which has still not been concluded by a peace agreement. As the situation is blocked with Azerbaijan, and the borders with Turkey are closed, the country needs powerful allies in the region to ensure its security. Only Russia is ready to support it to date. That is why the human and economic ties between the two countries are so strong. It is in this context that the European Union and Armenia have sought to formalise their relations in a broad, ambitious, legally binding agreement but not in the form of an association agreement that would have destabilized the country's relations in the region. This agreement is an important step in the development of the relationship between the European Union and Armenia, especially since, in addition to many generic provisions contained in most of the European Union agreements, it addresses a number of sensitive issues. First of all, there is the risk of the extension of the operation of the Medzamor nuclear power plant. Given the state of this old Soviet reactor, it is essential that the European Union pursue a policy of aid for the maintenance of the powers of the nuclear safety authority and the Armenian operator, so that we do not relive a disaster like that of Chernobyl. Let us then mention the improper use of cognac and champagne names for drinks produced in Armenia. Armenia agrees to renounce these disputed uses, respecting a transitional period precisely organised in the Agreement. For all these reasons, we must ratify this far-reaching, ambitious, legally binding agreement that will strengthen our friendship and partnership with Armenia in the future. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote in favour of the ratification bill and call on each group to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u59	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u60	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u61	If the South Caucasus, of which Armenia is a part, may seem to us far from Europe, our country and our daily lives, we must not turn away from this region of the world. The situation in Armenia, situated in a pivotal area between Europe, the Middle East and Russia, requires our full attention: this state with a turbulent history, a crossroads of many influences, occupies a strategic geographical position, especially in the context of the fight against terrorism. Moreover, Armenia is undergoing a difficult democratic transition and internal conflicts threaten its stability. As Members of a leading country in the European Union, we must bear in mind the difficulties facing Armenia, not to mention the tremendous potential of this territory, which is a real bridge between the East and the West. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of yesterday's Armenia is that of one of the oldest civilizations in the world, but also that of the denial of a people, its culture, its identity. His painful past is imbued with many sufferings, in particular genocide. The history of Armenia today is marked by the challenges to accompany political and institutional stability as well as to improve the business climate in order to attract foreign investment and promote its sustainable development. That is the whole issue of the bill before us. The comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between the European Union and Armenia is an important step in their relations, in particular because it establishes broad areas of political, legal, economic, commercial, social, financial and cultural cooperation. Moreover, it is intended to replace the partnership agreement signed in 1996, which is all the more essential since since then the European Union has widened its borders to the east, geographically approaching Armenia, and in 23 years the economic, political and social situation has changed. This renewed cooperation will strengthen relations between the Member States of the European Union and Armenia but will not lead to a comprehensive free trade agreement, as originally envisaged. However, this agreement is part of a new generation of legal instruments at the service of the European Union's external relations and the dissemination of our values abroad. Of course, it is not a question of imposing on Armenia the European vision of democracy or economic growth, but of establishing a genuine partnership relationship that will benefit the two parties involved in the agreement. France and Armenia are aware of this because our countries are bound by a friendship rooted in history, as evidenced by the presence of an important community of Armenian origin in France. I take this opportunity to stress that our country would be honoured to be more welcoming to uprooted people, including as a result of recent conflicts in this part of the world. We also have a close cultural, scientific and economic cooperation with Armenia, the centrepiece of which is the French University in Armenia, which welcomes more than 1,000 students a year for courses in law, commerce and management. During the twenty-five years of Armenia's independence, our bilateral relations were marked by the recognition of the genocide of the Armenians in 2001 and by the commitment of the President of the Republic to make 24 April, in our country, a day of commemoration of this genocide. The small town of Lusignan, in my constituency, whose lords were, in the 14th century, the kings of Armenia, participates in it every year around the Khachkar. Despite the richness of this relationship, we have not yet been able to establish real commercial ties. The volume of cases, which was around EUR 42.5 million in 2016, remains low. Of course, with regard to investments abroad, French companies are present, particularly in the areas of agri-food and water, or in the banking sector, but we could create and develop many other links. The Liberties and Territories Group welcomes the emphasis placed on the need to guarantee the energy security of the Republic of Armenia while creating the conditions for its development. Indeed, the closure and secure decommissioning of the Medzamor nuclear power plant must not lead to an impasse with disastrous effects on the environment. The agreement is aimed at the early adoption of a roadmap or action plan. You recalled, Madam Secretary of State, the need to give the utmost vigilance to the environmental protection obligations that should be included in this road map or action plan. The commitments on paper will have to be fulfilled. We also welcome the inclusion in the agreement of the commitment of each party to develop and strengthen their environmental cooperation in order to achieve the long-term goal of sustainable development and a greener economy. Policies to improve public health, preserve natural resources and enhance economic and environmental efficiency must focus on modern, cleaner technologies and more sustainable production patterns. Sustainable development is at the heart of this agreement, which is very important to the Members of my group. We cannot support agreements that do not take this dimension into account in all the areas of cooperation they seek. Ladies and gentlemen, the various promises set out in this agreement must give us the opportunity to accompany Armenia towards a more democratic system whose benefits will undoubtedly be positive for both European and Armenian citizens and businesses. Armenia must no longer be seen as a remote territory on the periphery of globalization, but as a strategic area with economic, energy, environmental and security stakes. The European Union, in particular France, must help to meet these challenges. That is why our group will vote without hesitation on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u62	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u63	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u64	We now have to comment on an agreement whose magnitude is measured by its length: almost a thousand pages, not far from four hundred articles, twelve annexes, two protocols, a joint declaration. A huge stone stands before us, which we are proposed to add to the building of the Eastern Partnership led by the European Union. Armenia is a country, as I say in my turn, which is particularly dear to us. The holding in this country of the last summit of la francophonie is a strong symbol. France recognized in 2001 – rather late, but better late than never – the Armenian genocide that left deep traces, both in our country and around the world. This recognition took so long to intervene that it invites us to reflect on the other massacres perpetrated in the world but which we struggle to face. If there are lessons in history, it would be worth remembering. However, I wish to moderate your enthusiasm to invite you to a certain degree of caution. This agreement is part of the European Union's neighbourhood policy. Intended to Europeanise the eastern margins through the export of legislative standards and integration into the single market, this strategy has been a fundamental element of the European Union's external policy since 2009. Let us not be fooled: it is also a matter of influencing Russia's deployment in the region through the expansion of the Euro-Asian Union. It, to which Armenia belongs, severely limits the ability of its members to align themselves with European legislation. This agreement is therefore not a genuine free trade agreement, but it considerably strengthens the political and economic partnership between the European Union and Armenia. The text, which is very truncated, sweeps a wide range of topics, from conflict prevention to cooperation on migration, to sustainable development objectives. Of course, some articles carry my enthusiasm, such as article 9, on combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. However, two aspects of this text require greater vigilance and justify our group's restraint. First of all, let us look at the energy dimension. The Eastern Partnership between the European Union and its neighbours in Eastern Europe and the South Caucasus aims, inter alia, to ensure the sustainability of energy trade. The European Union depends very heavily on imports of fossil fuels. It imports 90% of its oil and 70% of its natural gas – a situation that is quite untenable. As you know, I am in favour of the closure of the Medzamor nuclear power plant, which is considered one of the least secure in the world. Technically obsolete and located in a region of high seismic risk, it is a sword of Damocles that poses a risk to the whole continent. I invite you to follow the recent series Chernobyl, which will give you an idea of the consequences of a nuclear disaster. It's terrifying. The latest statements by the Armenian Prime Minister concerning an extension of the operation of the nuclear reactor at the power plant until 2040 are disturbing to us. The power plant supplies more than 40% of Armenian electricity. This energy dependence, which reminds us of ours, endangers the plan to shut down the power plant. Already in 1999, a previous partnership agreement between the European Union and Armenia, which provided for the development of alternative energies to close the plant, had not been concluded. I fear that this agreement will ultimately lead to support for the Armenian civil nuclear sector; the sustainable development objectives set out in the agreement leave me sceptical. We should have been much more offensive, both to prevent the dangers of the nuclear plan and to develop alternatives to accompany the closure of this plant. I would also like to draw your attention to the general spirit of this agreement, which endorses Armenia's alignment with the economic practices and rules of the European Union, once again set as a model to be achieved. I will not surprise you by reminding you of our love for the current orientation of the European Union – I am ironic! The fact that this agreement meets the very liberal principles governing European economic standards is a problem for us. This agreement reaffirms the framework of the World Trade Organisation – WTO – such as that in which trade relations between the European Union and Armenia develop. It makes free trade a vehicle for development that is sufficient for itself. This logic, also at work in other agreements such as the treaty with Mercosur or CETA, signed with Canada, which we will discuss tomorrow in committee and next week in this House, is deadly. It enshrines the weakening of local economies and the infringement of existing structures by basing cooperation on the competition of private actors that grow as States weaken. While the obsession with free trade is increasingly the weak point of the European Union, as it undermines democracy by moving people away from decision-making, the desire to make it the cornerstone of this agreement seems to me absolutely disconnected from the current concerns. In this case, the WTO's commitments are totally inadequate, if not counterproductive, with regard to the objectives of employment, ecology, development and relocation of the economy to which the Armenian population can aspire. Some articles of the agreement, which aim to remove technical barriers to trade or establish a dispute settlement mechanism, are sufficient reasons for us not to support this text. The stated objective of creating a favourable economic environment for economic operators through the improvement of the administrative and regulatory framework heralds a metamorphosis of Armenian state structures which should make us reflect, at a time when the free trade model is increasingly being challenged on a global scale, in fact. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the far too blurred formulations of an agreement which, although very comprehensive, sometimes adheres to incantations and gives prominence to a form of hollow and technocratic language. It states: "Armenia is taking further steps to establish a functioning market economy. » What is a functioning market economy? I'll leave you judges. "The European Union will help Armenia to develop sound macroeconomic policies. Who determines whether macroeconomic policies are healthy or unhealthy? Unless it is, rather than an assessment, the presupposition of those who sign this agreement: on the European side, we see very well what it can correspond to. I, in turn, wish to welcome the Armenian democratic transition, the "velvet revolution", which celebrates its first year. An extraordinary popular mobilization spoke out in the spring of 2018 against corruption and for freedom. It requires us, today, to support, here and elsewhere, the development of emancipated societies. You know our convictions: an emancipated society and the establishment of freedom and democracy cannot be satisfied with this economic logic of deregulation, competition and competitiveness, which is based on the norms of law and protection and on the possibility of carrying out policies of ecological transition at the global level as well as at the level of nations. Because this agreement does not seem to us to favour the development of freedom or social and ecological progress, the group La France insoumis will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u65	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u66	Armenia is a country dear to our heart: we maintain with the Armenian people, who have been and remain marked by the tragedy of genocide, old and strong relations. Many women and men who have come from Armenia or attached to it have marked the history of our country. I am thinking in particular of these men presented by Louis Aragon in his poem "L'Affiche rouge" as "Blacks of threatening beard and night hirsutes". They were resistant, dead for freedom, dead for France. History continues: the share of music and cinema, the share of humanity that binds us remain intense. The cultural strength of the Armenian people, brought to the movement, is magnificent: it must remind us of the urgent need to act throughout the world for respect for peoples and cultures. There is still much to be done in this region. Developing our relations and cooperating with a country that is actively seeking to build its future is necessary. However, it is very difficult to account for this text on Armenia as a whole, as the report says, it is complete and full. Turning to a wide range of issues, it aims to bring the European Union closer to Armenia while leaving it sufficient freedom to maintain its neighbourhood policy, a dense neighbourhood, made up of complex and sensitive intrications. Of course, it is not possible to mention the Armenian question, not to mention the Nagorno-Karabagh – or the Artsakh – which is a predominantly Armenian-populated territory, but administratively linked to Azerbaijan in the Soviet era, and which suffered a war between 1991 and 1994 when the Soviet Union fell. Armenia is demanding this territory because the population living there is mostly Armenian, while Azerbaijan refuses to be amputated. After several tens of thousands of deaths and almost half a million internally displaced persons, a cease-fire took place, but it never led to true peace. Thus, the conflict had been frozen for twenty-five years, and, as was the case in many others, respect for territorial integrity was opposed to the right to self-determination. Progress must be made towards the recognition of the link between Artsakh and the Republic of Armenia, and towards peace, because the situation continues to produce disastrous effects. Indeed, Turkey, which has a very strong dispute with Armenia, mainly because of the Turks' refusal to recognize the genocide of the Armenian people perpetrated by the Turkish-Tottoman power in 1915 and 1916, has allied itself with Azerbaijan. As a result, two thirds of Armenia's borders, those with Turkey and Azerbaijan, are closed, leading to major supply difficulties. The land-locked country can rely only on external partners for its maritime exports, which complicates the situation. The other two border countries are Iran and Georgia. Iran provides much of Armenia's energy supply, and Georgia the rest. However, as Russia has become Armenia's protective power, relations with Georgia are delicate, with Georgia and Russia in conflict over South Ossetia and Abkhazia. To this, we must add the very powerful internal political upheavals that took place in Armenia last year, and from which it is difficult to draw the conclusion today. In a few weeks, a revolution swept the former president, briefly becoming prime minister with the aim of circumventing the constitutional rules preventing him from carrying out more than two consecutive terms of office at the head of state. Demonstrations brought together several hundred thousand people in the capital, as well as in other major cities in the country. Mr Pachinian's party has replaced this system and we hope that democracy and transparency will prevail. Armenia has been at the origin of large diasporas: all hope that peace and harmony will soon return to the country, so that it can return to the path of human development and prosperity and return to its history. There are many in France who are attentive to the future of Armenia. However, the economic part of the agreement we are considering is confined to distant wills, as Armenia is firmly attached to the Euro-Asian Economic Union, led by Moscow, and it is not possible to belong to several free trade zones. The European Union's neighbourhood policy is too often limited to a policy of influence that we should question, even if it is somewhat contained here. Apart from the economic issue, it is the issue of civilian nuclear power that is fundamental, especially since it is necessary, in order to understand it well, to take into account the geopolitical question, since Armenia's supply of energy, including electricity, remains very precarious because of its conflicts with Turkey and Azerbaijan. Armenia has a single nuclear power plant, set up in 1979 and located about 30 kilometres from the capital, Yerevan, which has 2 million inhabitants; However, the technology used does not comply with safety standards. The Armenians tried to stop him, especially because of the seismic risks, but, too dependent on external resources, they had to give up. The country's electricity supply is therefore a major issue. The testimonies still refer to the only hour of electricity available per day, as well as those people who cut trees in public parks to warm up in winter, starting in 1992, during the war against Azerbaijan. They reinforce the urgency of developing dynamics for the promotion and protection of common goods, including energy resources – major issues for the future of the planet and of humanity. The water supply for hydropower has been so tapped that it has failed to dry up, which would have led the country to a very serious energy crisis. That is why, as early as 1995, in the face of this tragedy, the Armenian government decided to reopen this already old nuclear power plant, which is a few hundred metres from an active seismic fault. The contribution of the European Union should make it possible to look differently at the future. That is why we will not vote against this text: it seems to us important that the European Union and Euratom can help Armenia on this extremely serious issue, including hand in hand with Russia. The question is indeed that of the dismantling of the plant and the treatment of its waste, because it functions as in the Soviet era: nuclear and radioactive waste is stored within the site to be treated at the time of the final dismantling of the plant, not as it is produced. We cannot remain insensitive to such an issue. Finally, Armenia has suffered enough in history, it has been badly treated enough, not to have to suffer today, in addition, the horrors of liberalism. If the Communist Members are not in favour of the European Union's neighbourhood policy, which is too often limited to a reduction in customs duties with economically fragile countries and the creation of asymmetrical economic exchanges, the nuclear issue specific to Armenia, of which I have mentioned the gravity, will lead the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, I repeat, not to vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u67	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u68	Thank you to the parliamentary news for giving us the opportunity to refer to this small country, Armenia, to which we cannot remain indifferent. Its diaspora is located in our regions, particularly in the Drôme, in Valencia, which houses the Armenian Heritage Centre, as well as entrepreneurs. I am also addressing a friendly greeting to the Markarian family, whose new packaging line was inaugurated on Friday 5 July by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Didier Guillaume. Armenia is a country that has experienced a democratic revolution, since blood did not sink on April 23, 2018. It also hosted the 17th Summit of La Francophonie, where I had the pleasure of visiting the President of the Republic in October 2018. Under the leadership of France, the European Union and Armenia initiated further negotiations in 2015 to replace the 1996 agreement, which is compatible with Armenia's commitments in the Eurasian Economic Union since 2015. While this is certainly a less ambitious agreement than those negotiated between the European Union and Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, it remains a good agreement. It provides for large-scale cooperation in all fields – political, legal, economic, social or cultural – and the implementation of regular political dialogue at ministerial and administrative levels, aiming at regulatory harmonisation in these sectors and further cooperation on international issues. Inspired by the enhanced partnership agreement with Kazakhstan, it reconciles Armenia's dual proximity with the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union. It will first of all deepen the political dialogue between the European Union and Armenia, around the common attachment to democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Thus, the fight against inequalities between women and men is identified as one of the areas of cooperation of the agreement. It provides for cooperation on the basis of an exchange of information and good practice on issues such as equal opportunities and the fight against gender discrimination. The parties also undertake to strengthen their cooperation in the prevention and suppression of genocide as well as in the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the illegal trade in small arms and light weapons and organized crime and corruption. We know how much the tragedy of the 1915 genocide is still alive: I myself was able to see on 24 April in Istanbul, on two occasions, how much the Armenian community wants to celebrate this genocide and to have it recognized, even though it is subject to pressure and imprisonment on the part of the Turkish regime, which is blocked on this issue. The agreement will then facilitate the development of cooperation in the fields not only of energy and transport, but also of the environment. Indeed, the framework agreement places considerable emphasis on environmental issues, from the preamble, where the will to protect the environment is affirmed. Public health and safety will be better protected by respecting the principles of sustainable development, environmental needs and climate change. The agreement is also intended to contribute to the long-term objective of sustainable development and a greener economy. This subject is particularly sensitive given Armenia's dependence on civilian nuclear power, a dependency that carries high risks – several speakers stressed this point before me. In the area of combating climate change, the Parties shall develop their cooperation at the internal, regional and international levels and carry out joint actions to comply with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement of 2015. Armenia, which has signed and ratified the Paris Agreement, thus confirms its commitment to honouring the commitments made. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, the agreement will create new opportunities for trade and investment, while ensuring the protection of French and European geographical indications. The working Republic Group supports this agreement and will therefore vote for its ratification, because Armenia is an important and long-standing political partner for France and for the European Union: relations between these partners therefore need only be deepened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u70	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u71	No one today can ignore the very strong human and emotional ties between France and Armenia. These relations, above all human, historical and cultural, result in multiple bilateral cooperation between our two countries. Whether it is Armenia's membership of the Organisation internationale de la francophonie, the linguistic pact which commits it to develop the place of French in education and to promote access to Francophone cultural products, or the bilateral agreement on cultural, scientific and technical cooperation in force between our two countries, there is no shortage of examples. As the last of the six Soviet republics not to have signed a partnership agreement with the European Union, Armenia has shown for several years now a clear will to approach it, as all of us can see. The European Union has therefore been at the initiative of signing this comprehensive partnership agreement with Armenia, with the aim of strengthening the pro-European presence and opening up this friendly country. This agreement, which does not involve any new financial implications for France, is beneficial in several respects. By ensuring better protection of our economic operators, by facilitating investment, by guaranteeing better protection of intellectual property, this agreement is at the height of the geopolitical and geoeconomic challenges facing the Union and, with it, France. However, this agreement does not focus solely on economic matters. It is not a matter of reaching an agreement in principle, only because it would be beneficial to each of the parties. In this regard, I recall the general principles of Article 2 of this Agreement, based on respect for democracy and human rights, as well as the rule of law. Because there are values. While this draft agreement was initialled on 21 March 2017 in Brussels and then signed on the sidelines of the Eastern Partnership Summit of 24 November 2017 by the Member States, the Armenian people have since demonstrated, through the "velvet revolution", their special appreciation for democratic and European values. Holding hands with a country that has made such a demonstration is not meaningless, both for the European Union and for France, the MODEM Group is convinced of this. Armenia's political choices also demonstrate the need for this outstretched hand. While Armenia is openly oriented towards Europe, it sees its political choices constrained by its geopolitical situation. Whether it is a conflict with Azerbaijan or the closure of the common borders with Turkey, Armenia needs a European openness and support from the Union so that it does not systematically pursue a policy in response to the regional difficulties it is experiencing. Indeed, Armenian foreign policy remains determined by the consequences of the conflict in Nagorno-Karabagh, which has not yet been formally resolved politically. This agreement, I believe, because it would confirm Armenia's openness to Europe, could solve other difficulties. By providing for large-scale cooperation in all fields, political, legal, economic, commercial, social, financial or cultural, this agreement will provide important support to Armenia. Although it does not have a free trade component, in particular because of Armenia's membership of the Eurasian Economic Union, it nevertheless presents the virtue of offering new opportunities for Armenia and for the values promoted by the European Union and France. With nearly 400 articles, this text has a real ambition: to establish fruitful exchanges between the European Union and Armenia, both in terms of democratic values and trade, and in terms of respect for human rights and the fight against terrorism. Another important issue must be stressed: the prolonged and risky operation of the Medzamor nuclear power plant, whose condition is precarious. With nearly 40% of the country's electricity, the prospect of the closure of this nuclear power plant was mentioned in 1999 in the previous partnership agreement between the European Union and Armenia. The assistance that the European Union can provide to Armenia in the development of alternative electrical capacity is essential and should lead to the closure of this plant, as the risks of its operation increase day by day. The responsibility of the European Union also lies in these considerations. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] All of these findings therefore lead the MODEM and related group to support, with the same enthusiasm as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the bill authorizing the ratification of this comprehensive partnership agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u72	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u73	First of all, Madam President, I would ask you to accept all my apologies for my absence from the vote just now: I had estimated the timetable according to the number of speakers registered. However, some Members are in the general debate and are not present, which is not normal. The Assembly's Rules of Procedure could provide that a Member who is part of the general debate, and thus blocks the legislative system, would be a little penalized in case of absence! For my part, I reiterate my apologies: I was discussing asbestos with Pierre Dharréville in the corridor. I could not imagine that some registered Members were not present! I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u74	Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u75	I'm coming to Armenia. In the café of commerce, in our families, in our friends, two things come back systematically when we talk about Armenia. Firstly, genocide: the Assembly's legitimate recognition of the Armenian genocide, thanks to Valérie Boyer's courageous initiative, is in the honour of this assembly: it was a demonstration of responsibility and even logic. Secondly, a feeling of fraternity binds us to Armenia: 500,000 Armenians or people of Armenian origin live in France. It's not nothing, Charles Aznavour! When I read your report, the rapporteur, I said to myself that there was a need for a link between all of this. I found a rather little known and very beautiful song by this poet, Charles Aznavour, who is called "Tendre Armenia". We understand the whole of your relationship to the song, which you probably know, and especially the verse: "Lossed in its mountains at the gates of Asia". Your entire report is here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u76	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u77	Armenia is not Europe; It's more like Asia. It has a deep Russian tropism, which is unfortunately due to the abyss of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u78	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u79	[[Smile]] [[Smile]] However, it also has a French tropism and is linked to France by a deep sense of fraternity. Charles Aznavour was right at all points. The European Union uses the surprising expression of "Eastern Partnership", which includes Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine, and Armenia, which is a bit apart. "Yesterday again...", all of these countries were members of the USSR, and that was something else. Among these countries, many "were already seeing..." in the European Union Armenia does not really demand such integration. She may love us more, but she's a little apart. It is part of Aznavour's poetry. Russian tropism will always exist because of the economy; It is very difficult to do otherwise. Fraternity with France will still exist, because we have our 500,000 Armenians, and love has created a kind of republican spread. [[Smile]] It has been said several times, "No, I haven't forgotten anything" It is impossible to forget human rights, labour rights, democracy – everything that Armenia has not known for years, and which has progressed since the Velvet Revolution. As you said, Madam chairman of the committee, it would be catastrophic if France were not at their side. But France is able to help them. [[Smile]] [[Smile]] Your report, the rapporteur, is not a mess: it covers 389 articles. You have to read it, because it's a hell of a job! There are provisions that are worked out, thoughtful, exceptional, and that can meet the needs of our two countries. "As they say," I'm a carabin and a musician: so I can be interested in cognac or champagne, that's understandable. Progress in this area is all the more important since it was not obvious. They were the first to use the name "cognac": they used it since 1863, long before us! Similarly, they were the first to use the appellation "champagne", as France had only used it since 1936. We were a little light back then! The products are not of the same quality at all. It is therefore wonderful that they accept this agreement: it shows a love for France. They understood that they could use these names in Cyrillic, but not in Latin characters. This is a great step forward, because they have 3 million inhabitants and 40,000 wine growers. This sector accounts for 10 per cent of exports, which is not nothing. That they have accepted such a provision testifies to a fraternity, a cousinage, absolutely out of the ordinary. [[Smile]] Provisions on the free movement of persons will be dealt with in a separate framework. They are essential: "Take me..." It would be great if they were different from those applicable to other countries, because Armenia is neither Georgia nor Belarus. We have so much affection and love for this country! It would be exceptional to have specific provisions to facilitate the issuance of visas. [[Smile]] [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. Jean-Michel Clément also applauds]] Thus, this agreement is not completely "for me formidable", but it is a little so! The Socialist and related group will therefore "be allowed to go" to sign it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u80	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u81	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u82	Is that a semantic choice?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u83	... as President of the France-Armenia Friendship Group in the National Assembly, I am pleased that we can now discuss this comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between the European Union, Euratom and the Republic of Armenia. As you know, Armenia is a small country that is at the crossroads of several worlds, European, Russian-speaking, Turkish-speaking, Persian, Asian, but also Arab-Muslim. As you also know, Armenia today maintains historical and political ties with Russia. Since 9 October 2014, she has also been a member of the Eurasian Economic Union. It therefore has its full place in the economic cooperation and trade agreements with the European Union. The agreement signed on 24 November 2017 provides for financial assistance from the European Union and identifies four areas of cooperation: good governance and institution-building, economic development and new business opportunities, connectivity policies and policies for energy development, climate and environmental protection, mobility and exchanges between individuals. The weekly The Economist has designated Armenia as the country of the year 2018. The Armenian people have indeed acted collectively, in a responsible and peaceful manner, contrary to what can be observed in the rest of the world. The success of the organization of the summit of la francophonie, which was held in the wake of the revolution of October 2018, must also be welcomed. I can testify to the extreme efficiency of the organization, and above all to the great enthusiasm with which we were welcomed. Prime Minister Nikol Pachinian is legitimate and popular. Elected Prime Minister by the Armenian National Assembly on 8 May 2018, he was reappointed to this post after the undeniable victory of his party and his allies in the early parliamentary elections on 9 December. But what matters is the security of Armenia and the South Caucasus region. Titles I and II of the Agreement encourage Armenia to become a sustainable partner in the prevention and resolution of international and regional conflicts. Yes, Armenia needs to be supported, in a multilateral framework. In this area, France has already contributed to the integration of Armenia into the European institutions, in particular the Council of Europe and the European Neighbourhood Policy. France, which co-chairs the Minsk Group, therefore plays a key role in the negotiations for the settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. I also welcome the efforts of Prime Minister Nikol Pachinian, since his election, to relaunch the peace process with Azerbaijan. Armenians are also thirsty for justice. Title III of the Agreement supports the implementation of the rule of law and the functioning of the institutions. Among the strengths of Prime Minister Nikol Pachinian's programme are, of course, the fight against corruption and favouritism. It wants irreversible reforms to take place, with the aim of preventing corruption and oligarchy from returning. To carry out this mission, he can avail himself of the massive support of the Armenian people; The support of the European Union, which the agreement we are about to ratify will be a strong signal to the young Armenian democracy. I would add that we French parliamentarians must support the Republic of Armenia in its transition to an efficient parliamentary system. The France-Armenia Friendship Group of the National Assembly is very active – I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for highlighting it. This autumn, with the assistance of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we will continue to strengthen our ties with our colleagues in the Armenia-France friendship group. Finally, the economic development of Armenia is essential for the future of Armenians. Titles IV et seq. of the Agreement support, inter alia, the economic reform process and good tax governance. Armenia's economic growth is strong. Trade, services and construction are now sectors of the economy. Armenian start-ups are growing, and this year they were present at VivaTech. Computer training centres are open to young people – you all know the Tumo centre in Yerevan: its success is such that a Tumo centre was inaugurated in Paris this year. Education and training are therefore fundamental to the economic development of Armenia. The new technology sector requires scientists, as well as lawyers, marketing specialists and managers. In this regard, we welcome the efforts of the French University in Armenia, UFAR, which trains Armenian students and develops the Francophonie. Directed by the rector Jean-Marc Lavest, she plans today to open a new campus in Yerevan. As Nikol Pachinian says, we are only at the beginning of the economic revolution: we must reduce poverty and unemployment, increase revenues, facilitate business, guarantee fair and undistorted competition, and stimulate innovation and growth. Madam Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u84	Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u85	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... the rapporteur, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Armenia needs international expertise; the European Union's technical and financial assistance is fundamental for that country. Not without a certain emotion, I say to you: France must ratify the comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between the European Union and Euratom, on the one hand, and Armenia, on the other, in order to guarantee the success of the reforms of the Armenian government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u86	In the absence of Mr. Louis Aliot, who was the last registrant, the general discussion was closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u87	There you go! That's what I was saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u88	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u89	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u90	The next item is the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Djibouti on the powers of the provost in the territory of the Republic of Djibouti (No. 1154, 1665).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u91	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u92	Madam Chair, Madam Rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u93	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u94	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the benches, I present today, on behalf of the Government, the draft law authorizing the approval of the protocol signed on 1 March 2017 between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Djibouti concerning the powers of the provost in the territory of the Republic of Djibouti. Djibouti and France have remained close since independence, but in recent years have been marked by a relative distance between our two countries, a distance coinciding with an increasing presence of the United Arab Emirates in the 2000s, and especially, for the past five years, China, which has been present both in military and in economic terms. Faced with the risk of overdependence on Beijing, the Djiboutian authorities have for nearly two years shown a willingness to get closer to France. The President of the Republic travelled to Djibouti on 11 and 12 March 2019, before going to Ethiopia and Kenya. With 1,450 troops, France has its largest military base abroad in Djibouti, reflecting our long-term commitment to the security of Djibouti and the Horn of Africa region. Franco-Djiboutian cooperation in the field of defence is part of a cooperation treaty signed in 2011 and entered into force on 1 May 2014. This treaty seals a unique alliance on the continent: in a context of general updating of all the Franco-Djiboutian agreements, the two parties wanted the adoption of a new text – the protocol we are considering today was signed in Paris on 1 March 2017. The provost is a unit of the national gendarmerie established with the French forces abroad or engaged in external operations. It is responsible for general police and military judicial police missions. In the territory of the Republic of Djibouti, the provost has as a priority the exercise of the judicial police with the French forces of Djibouti, whether military personnel, civilian defence personnel or their families. It also carries out general police missions, in order to prevent risks and to suppress incidents, disturbances to public order that may involve French military personnel or engage the responsibility of the State. It also carries out force support missions in some areas. Finally, it contributes to the intelligence mission, in order to preserve the security of the French military and the French powers of control. This Protocol specifies the division of powers between the Provost Marshal and the Djibouti police and gendarmerie to try offences committed by staff members. This new agreement will therefore allow for a better determination of the jurisdiction of the different courts, depending on the nature of the offence and the place where it was committed. In the case of the French forces stationed in Djibouti, France shall exercise its jurisdiction as a matter of priority to hear and determine all offences arising out of any act or negligence committed by a member of the French staff on duty, as well as offences affecting the security or property of the French State, or the property or person of a member of the French armed forces. Finally, it deals with offences committed by members of the French armed forces within the facilities made available to the French authorities. Investigations are mostly initiated following simple flights to the detriment of our armies. The text we are looking at today is intended to protect the situation of French citizens deployed in Djibouti. It should not be overstated: the objective of the text is, I repeat, to protect our citizens and to ensure good coordination with the services of Djibouti.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u95	Mrs Monica Michel, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u96	I am very pleased that, on the occasion of the ratification of this protocol, we have the opportunity to reaffirm the importance of our bilateral relationship with Djibouti. Indeed, we still have a very special connection with this small country of the Horn of Africa, which left the French colonial giron only in 1977 – forty-two years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u97	With regret...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u98	This separation was never a break: France and Djibouti remained friends, prolonging the effects of the first friendship treaty signed in 1862 under Napoleon III. This friendship and proximity arise from the fact that we have the French language in common, making Djibouti an exception in this region of English-speaking Africa. They are also based on the continued presence of our military detachment, the French forces in Djibouti, for the mutual benefit of our two countries. In Djibouti, France deploys its largest force abroad to date, with about 1,450 military personnel. The latter defend the integrity of Djiboutian territory, participate in the monitoring of air and sea areas and provide support for the training of their counterparts. They thus play an important role in promoting Djibouti's security. Moreover, France is in Djibouti the only military force with a family presence. Other military contingents – American, Chinese, Japanese – often operate in a vacuum, and rarely leave their bases. Conversely, the families of the French soldiers shop in Djibouti-Ville, put their children at French school... This community of about 4000 citizens thus plays a significant role in the economy of this small country. As the Ambassador of Djibouti, whom I have met several times, repeated to me, the French forces are very well received in Djibouti. They find unique and varied training grounds, and strategic positioning on the Bab-el-Mandeb Strait, through which 40% of the world's energy supplies flow. Our relationship with Djibouti is therefore privileged and exceptional. Yet – many of you will probably say – this relationship is under threat. It is threatened by our relative erasure of this region of the world, as well as by the increasing competition of other powers that are taking foot in it – sometimes massively, like China, which is multiplying major investments there. I believe, however, that we must defend the specificity of our bilateral relationship and bring it to an even higher level. The visit of the President of the Republic to Djibouti last March reaffirmed the importance we attach to it. Chinese investment benefits Djiboutians only moderately and dangerously increases the country's debt, which remains among the poorest in the world today. In 2016, Djibouti was ranked 170th out of 187 in the human development index. This indicator fully justifies the reintegration of Djibouti into the list of priority countries for our development assistance in 2013. In order to develop, Djibouti needs a balanced and respectful partnership, which France is in a position to propose to it. In recent years, we have reinvigorated our bilateral cooperation in various areas. The military field has always played a leading role. In 2011, we concluded a Defence Cooperation Treaty, which replaced the defence agreement that had been binding on us since independence. The protocol we are examining today is part of this renewal of our defence relationship. The very fact that Djibouti had agreed to conclude a new protocol governing the powers of the provost on its territory was a sign of the special attention it accorded to France. I recall that our country has pre-vote detachments with all its armed forces deployed abroad, but it is only in Djibouti that the powers of the pro-vosts are explicitly recognized by the host State, within the framework of a specific agreement. At first glance, the purpose of this protocol may seem very modest and circumscribed: it is to update the legal references of a text that had not been revised since 1980 and to provide for some small adjustments in the missions of the provosts, which are more in the direction of greater legal certainty for our soldiers and their families. Although its scope may seem narrow, this text marks our mutual political will to refurbish the foundations of our relations and to go further. On the other hand, it is very opportune that our provosts should have a solid legal basis for carrying out their missions in Djibouti. Their presence allows our army to have an immediate investigative capacity to shed light on disputes involving the military or their families. It also allows direct cooperation, on the ground, with Djiboutian investigators, without having to go through the French authorities in Paris. The provost is therefore an institution that supports the projection of power of our armies, securing the legal framework and fluidizing cooperation with local authorities. In the very competitive context of Djibouti, where many armies are now established, our provosts are a real asset. This institution is a French specificity – the other armies are accompanied by police detachments whose missions are often significantly different, focusing more on the military police than on the judicial police. The provosts are therefore one of our strengths, which this protocol allows to anchor firmly. For all these reasons, we can vote without reservation on the bill authorizing the approval of this protocol. As I stressed, it is important for our bilateral relationship with Djibouti: it marks our common will to strengthen our strategic partnership, which has always been drawn by France's military presence in Djibouti. However, we must also hear the request of our Djiboutian partner, who now aspires that this relationship expands beyond the military field. In particular, the Ambassador of Djibouti had referred to his desire to boost parliamentary diplomacy. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I am in charge of monitoring a region that includes Djibouti, and I am working in partnership with Bertrand Bouyx, the chairman of the France-Djibouti Friendship Group. We will continue, at our level, to study what could be implemented. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Luc Lagleize also applauds]] Madam Secretary of State, I appeal to you to ensure that this momentum is also maintained on the government side. I believe that at a time when Djibouti is being courted on all sides by powers that have seen all the interest they could derive from it, France must invest more in this partnership with mutual benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u99	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u100	A big thank you to Monica Michel, who has just remembered with talent the stakes of this protocol on the skills of the provost with Djibouti. This text allows us to address the question of France's presence in Djibouti and in this absolutely strategic region of the Horn of Africa. Djibouti is only a few tens of kilometres from the Arabian Peninsula, on the Bab el-Mandeb Strait, which controls access to the Suez Canal, one of the most frequented shipping corridors in the world. Most of the maritime trade between Asia, Europe and Africa is off the coast of Djibouti, whose deep-sea port is the natural gateway to all of East Africa. I am absolutely convinced that France must play an even more active role in this region of the world, starting of course with Djibouti, a country with which we have been united for a long time with very strong ties. It was with this conviction that I led a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with Marion Lenne, Christian Hutin and Didier Quentin, in Djibouti and Ethiopia in May 2018, and then in Eritrea last February. On the spot, despite – or because of – the presence of other actors, France is very much expected. We must meet this expectation and strengthen our bilateral relationship with Djibouti. In my view, the visit of the President of the Republic last March is a strong signal of France's expected reinvestment in Djibouti and this region of the world. We have an ancient and unique relationship with Djibouti. This relationship is historical, cultural, linguistic and strategic. France is the only country with which Djibouti has concluded a defence agreement. The rapporteur recalled the importance of our military presence: Djibouti is our largest military base abroad, with 1,450 military personnel present, half of whom are family members. This presence is highly appreciated on site. China inaugurated in August 2017 its first military base abroad, which can accommodate up to 10,000 men. The Americans are also present, to the tune of 4000 men. In this context, France must draw a clear conclusion: it is imperative that we maintain and consolidate our military presence in Djibouti. At the economic level, Djibouti's debt to China is becoming unsustainable: Chinese debt accounts for 60 per cent of the country's debt. As in other African countries, China reimburses itself, for example, by taking control of infrastructure. This issue of Africa's debt to China is a major challenge to which France, Europe, and the international community will have to respond. In any case, as the main economic players have told us, this is the right time to relaunch the presence and investments of French and European companies in Djibouti. Culturally and linguistically, Djibouti is the only francophone country in East Africa. The French language is a wealth that unites us and that we must absolutely preserve. But France must do more. French is a national language of Djibouti, but fewer and fewer young people speak it. The means of the French Institute really deserve to be strengthened so that this islet of francophonie lives. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We must also look to the Horn of Africa and support the efforts of Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. I hope that in the long term, peace with Eritrea will bear fruit. The Ethiopian Prime Minister's hand in Somalia will contribute to the stability of the region, despite our great concern about the ongoing developments in the Sudan. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that France can prevail as an actor in favour of peace and prosperity in this great region, at the crossroads of the African and Arab worlds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u101	In the general debate, Mr Yannick Favennec Becot spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u102	Africa is not waiting for France to take the path of globalization. Despite our close and historic ties, particularly with French-speaking Africa, our country has not been able to establish any new fruitful and lasting relations with the African continent. Emerging countries, particularly China, have come to take a vacant place. But, as we all know, nature hates emptiness. After a decade of investment, especially in raw materials, China is now accelerating its strategy for sustainable implementation on the African continent. This includes his initiative called "New Silk Roads". As part of Beijing's strategy to boost the global economy through a wide range of investments, China has provided around $60 billion in foreign direct investment over the duration of its project. Several African countries have expressed their willingness to integrate this dynamic, but the Chinese strategy of the "new silk roads" is being pursued in East Africa. Three countries are outposts: Ethiopia, Kenya and Djibouti. In Djibouti, an agreement was signed to establish the first Chinese military base outside China. This military base is not only close to one of the main American bases, but also to the French and Japanese bases, on a territory of only 23,000 square kilometres. Beyond security aspects, this military presence is also justified by economic reasons, given Djibouti's strategic geographical location. From a commercial point of view, the country is a gateway to East Africa and the Indian Ocean. Djibouti is also the focus of all the attention of India and Japan, which, in turn, have set up a joint initiative, the "Freedom Road", which aims to compete with China's "new silk roads". So, ladies and gentlemen, what about France in this competition between emerging countries? It is unfortunately weak: our country manifests itself almost exclusively by the military presence of 1500 soldiers. Yet Djibouti was once the French Coast of the Somalis, before becoming the Republic of Djibouti after independence. But it is true that the population of this French overseas territory has long known the injustices and civilizational attacks of colonization. For example, I'll tell you a little personal story. My mother-in-law, a Somali from Djibouti, told me that in the course of history, he was taught that his ancestors were Gauls – his African origins were totally denied. Despite this, she is deeply grateful to France, which has given her the opportunity to be the French citizen she is today. If I share this little part of my family history with you, it is to tell you how much I believe it is necessary for our country to establish a new and true partnership relationship with Djibouti. Admittedly, the ties between our two countries have been somewhat lost in unsaid, in lies sometimes, but also in our belief that the roots of this common history were strong and lasting, and that is certainly what has contributed to the weakening of relations between our two countries. Today, we need to build renewed ties, up to the challenges that this part of the African continent needs to address – I am thinking in particular of security and migration issues. Djibouti's geographical location is indeed an issue in terms of migration. This small territory connects Europe, Asia and Africa; it is also a transit point to the Gulf of Aden and beyond. As part of the examination of this bill, I therefore consider it appropriate to ask how Europe and France can be alongside Djibouti, which has become since 2009 a major stage in the road for irregular migrants, who are moving there or transiting there to search for eldorado, particularly in Europe. Madam Secretary of State, the Liberties and Territories Group is waiting for clarification from you on this situation which Europe, and our country with it, must understand with responsibility and humanity. The situation of migrants is no longer sustainable. The images we see broadcast on television or on social networks are untenable, whether it is that of a dead father drowned with his daughter in Rio Grande or those of these women, these children and these men, including many Somalis, whose road ends in the depths of the Mediterranean. Ladies and gentlemen, on the security front, France's presence is indispensable to support Djibouti in its fight against piracy. This territory is indeed a compulsory crossing point for many commercial vessels transiting the area. He is a natural actor in the security of the region. The presence of French forces is therefore essential, particularly in terms of logistical support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u104	While France is present alongside the Djiboutian forces, it must also be present alongside our soldiers, who, for many of them, live for three years, together with their families, in this part of the Horn of Africa. Their security must be ensured in Djibouti, where ethnic tensions between the Afars and the Issas have recently reappeared, giving rise to sometimes very deadly clashes. At the same time, our country must ensure the proper conduct of the 4,000 civilians and military who live there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u105	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u106	This is the role of the provost which is the subject of the protocol under discussion. This unique institution plays a major role that we absolutely need to preserve: it takes over primarily judicial police missions with the French forces in Djibouti, but also general police, force support and intelligence missions. [[The rapporteur and the chairman of the committee applaud]] For the Libertés et territoires Group, ratification of the agreement is essential in order to ensure the maintenance of good relations between France and Djibouti. That is why we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u107	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u108	We are considering the proposed updating of a protocol between the Government of France and the Republic of Djibouti, aimed at renewing a bilateral commitment of 2011 on the powers of the Provost Marshal in the territory of Djibouti. First of all, I would like to return to the role of the provost, an institution so unique in our country. This training, which belongs to the corps of the French national gendarmerie, carries out a military judicial police mission with our armed forces, under the supervision of the Paris High Court. Its origins are distant. They date back to the birth of the French army. At the mercy of history, the institution has changed, its missions too. At present, it is responsible for the investigation of the offences committed by or against the French armed forces and the investigation of the perpetrators. It also prevents the risk of disturbances to public order that may involve French military personnel. The presence of a provost gendarmerie in Djibouti, as in other regions, is due to the long-standing relations that our country has established with the young Republic. On 27 June 1977, thanks to the decolonization movement and the outcome of three popular consultations, the country finally achieved independence. The Republic of Djibouti is then born. At the same time, a provisional protocol was signed to maintain a permanent French military presence on the territory, which could be debated today. As soon as independence was proclaimed, 3,000 soldiers were deployed, often accompanied by their families, which involved the presence of a pre-votal detachment. Since then, this presence has been reaffirmed successively, for the last time in 2011. Let us remember: if France is today the only country with which Djibouti has signed a defence agreement, it is not the only country to be present militarily. This is also the case for China, which is explained by the geostrategic position of the Republic of Djibouti: encircled in the Horn of Africa, this former French Territory of the Afars and Issas sees 40 per cent of the world's maritime traffic. It is for this reason that it is the subject of covetousness and power relations in the region. There are military bases of great powers. French, American, Chinese, Japanese and Italian soldiers are present. Since 2017, China has positioned itself at this strategic crossroads. As early as February 2014, a partnership agreement had been signed between China and the Republic of Djibouti. At the Sino-African Summit in Johannesburg in December 2018, a dozen cooperation programmes were announced. The development of the Doraleh port, the construction of a new civilian airport and the commissioning by the Chinese of the railway line are the cornerstones of the new Beijing strategy in the region. The Djiboutian regime takes advantage of this strategic context by organizing a real trade in military bases that it praises to its allied powers. The Chinese site in Camp Obock would include at least a 10,000-man cantonment. The only Japanese military base outside Japanese territory is located in Djibouti. As for the French base there, it now has 1,450 men, raising it to the rank of first French base in Africa. All this is in line with the prospect of militarization of the region, which seems to be reaching a particularly critical threshold today. This is a risky, if not dangerous, bet on the part of the Republic of Djibouti. If these military bases open diplomatic levers – that's how it is – they also threaten the country's economic independence. In this context, what role should France play? That is the question that must be asked first and foremost. The problem of provostism is part of a comprehensive reflection on the presence and role of our forces in this context. Our establishment cannot ignore the local political situation or the nature of the Djiboutian regime. In May 2018, in its report on the human rights situation addressed to the United Nations, the Alkarama Foundation revealed the persistence of serious violations of the human rights of detained persons, as well as the severe repression of members of the opposition, journalists and human rights defenders. We cannot rightly debate an agreement on the judicial police by concealing the very absence of a right to a fair trial for political opponents and demonstrators of all kinds in this republic. Such a situation, which cannot escape us, must even alert us and mobilize us. We cannot adopt a form of blindness to the reality of this country and to the historical relations we have with it – which we must undoubtedly change. I would also like to clarify my geopolitical point. The installation of a Saudi military base in Djibouti cannot leave us indifferent. It effectively reflects Saudi Arabia's military objectives in engaging in the conflict in Yemen. Having repeatedly denounced the terrible conflict in which France participates through its arms exports, we cannot ignore a situation with considerable human implications. Even if the ministers constantly repeat in committee or in this House that, if they sell arms to Saudi Arabia, they do not know what they are used for, and therefore have no proof that they are used to massacre Yemenis, we do not accept this blindness or this form of realpolitik.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u109	In this case, also denounce the Huthists! And what are you doing with Daesh's role in the area?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u110	Please, let's not question the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u111	I would like to have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u112	Madam Member, don't answer the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u113	That's too bad, because this one's interesting. To imagine that the massacre of Yemenis can take us forward in the fight against Daesh is a singular conception of peace and the fight against Daesh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u115	From this perspective, I said, the strategic strait of Bab al-Mandeb, through which half of the world's trade flows, is at the centre of concern. But our geostrategic interests in the region cannot be contrary to our demand for the protection of human rights, nor to our commitment to peace and justice. The agreement, although opportunistic and necessary to ensure the protection of our citizens – which I can hear – does not seem to us to measure the geostrategic context at work in the region. French diplomacy and our relations with other world powers must serve to defend the interests of our country, in accordance with the values that guided the construction of our Republic. In other words, we must be an actor of peace, and no economic interest, no realpolitik must distract us from the imperious French contribution to a world of freedom and fraternity. This does not appear in your vision of this partnership. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] That is why, together with my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party, we will abstain and support the adjournment motion that our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq will be defending.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u116	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u117	This subject, which is very rarely discussed in this Chamber – the provost, a kind of gendarmerie of our army – invites us to look at the behaviour of our troops when they are projected outside our national borders. Thought from the first reflections on the armies, in the 14th and 15th centuries, the ancestor of our provost was created as a special troupe charged with regulating the discipline within the army of the King of France. This mission, which echoed the following centuries at the gendarmerie, finally specialized in the last century. Particularity of the provost, his hierarchical authority varies according to his different missions. But it is the command of the provost gendarmerie that organizes the prevotal brigades, permanent detachments – as in Djibouti – or temporary ones – in the case of external operations. In Djibouti, there is one officer and six non-commissioned gendarmerie officers in the provost brigade. They are responsible for supervising the 1450 French military personnel stationed at the military base, including 400 spouses and 700 children. This protection is useful: in 2018, the brigade found forty-six crimes and offences including property and personal offences, forty-six traffic accidents and nearly seventy judicial intelligence procedures. The number of crimes and offences has been steadily decreasing since 2014, but the usefulness of the brigade is undeniable, especially since Djibouti hosts the largest French military base abroad. This military establishment is the mark of a very strong common history between France and Djibouti. If the Mayotte question remains pending, Djibouti is the last territory decolonized by France on 27 June 1977. However, there remains an extremely unique link between the two States, given the continued military presence that allows France to keep an eye on the Horn of Africa and to project quickly. Djibouti is located on the Bab el-Mandeb Strait, which separates the Gulf of Aden from the Red Sea, one of the three largest sea routes in the world, connecting Europe to the Middle East and Asia, and on which 5 million barrels of oil pass every day. This maritime area is also bordering Yemen, a committed country – should we remind it? – in a total war. The belligerents – particularly the Saudi warships – are active there. That should lead us to question once again the issue of the arms trade. The Strait also attracts mafia and armed groups who practice piracy and contribute to increasing tensions in the area. Since Djibouti is by far the smallest geographical player in this part of the world, its policy has moved very quickly towards a real business of hosting international military bases, becoming one of its main financial resources and constituting a major economic interest, since soldiers also use local services and shops. The country has more foreign military facilities than there are elsewhere in the world, and provides a key strategic location for the supply of regional humanitarian missions, peacekeeping and the fight against piracy. The United States has its largest African base with nearly 4,200 soldiers, Japan has also been present for years with about 600 soldiers, and China, the last actor to arrive, has deployed enormous means to establish itself. It now owns 600 soldiers in Djibouti, but its barracks worries all the international powers present, since it could eventually accommodate up to 10,000 soldiers. In addition, European soldiers from Operation Atalante are fighting piracy in the Gulf of Aden to secure Europe's maritime supply. The zone is therefore a condensed global geopolitics with fundamental international and military issues. The protocol that we are asked to approve is one of the stones of the French military cooperation building with Djibouti, which allows our two countries to maintain a privileged relationship. Having made his country what it is today, the President of Djibouti is considered indispensable by the States established there, which gives him a certain degree of impunity. His political opposition, often violent, continues to denounce this situation which France refuses to hear. France is all the more deaf to any criticism of the regime because Djibouti, as an old colony, still remains a little faithful to our country, which is an asset in this context of competition. The legal framework which this Protocol will replace dates back to 1980 and has become almost obsolete. It defines the respective jurisdictional powers of the two countries for any offence concerning the French forces: the missions of judicial police and administrative police of the provost are therefore determined from that time and these missions are unique since Djibouti is the only country with which France has such an agreement. Only there can the provosts exchange directly with the investigators without having to go back to France. But with a judicial cooperation agreement passed in 1986 and the 2011 agreement, too many legal changes took place and it was time to put things back on track. The protocol we are examining today has therefore been designed to facilitate Franco-Djiboutian relations. Signed on 1 March 2017, it is fully based on Article 16 of the 2011 Cooperation Treaty. Although on the ground things will hardly change, this treaty will still help to secure our soldiers stationed in Djibouti legally. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Nevertheless – and my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq will return – the crucial issue is indeed that of France's political relationship with Djibouti and its authoritarian regime, to the detriment of the country's sovereignty and the freedom of its citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u118	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u119	The bill that we are discussing today is an opportunity to recall our historic partnership with the Republic of Djibouti. France is expected in Djibouti; and the ratification of this protocol is an act that will seal our friendship and fluidize our future cooperation. Although, at first glance, our country seems to be more invested in the Sahel, it is still close to Djibouti since independence, and our commitment to the region must be growing. This republic is also a long-standing partner, as this text shows, a genuine commitment of trust by which it recognizes the competence of the provosts in its territory. Our presence is also unique, since the French contingent is, in the country, the only foreign force with a family presence. The provost thus concerns not only 1,450 soldiers, but also nearly 400 spouses and 700 children. French troops have never left Djibouti: their presence is a structuring element of our bilateral relationship. France is the only country to have signed a defence agreement with Djibouti, under which it has undertaken to contribute to the defence of the integrity of the territory of the Republic. During his visit to the Horn of Africa, the President of the Republic, who began his visit with Djibouti, stressed our strategic partnership and the profound cooperation that unites us in the security field and in the fight against terrorism. Djibouti is home to our first military base by size; It is a strategic ally at the heart of the crisis arc extending from the Sahel to the Middle East. The regional environment is unstable, whether it is open crises in Somalia – where the country deploys a third of its army in the context of the African Union mission – or Yemen. In this context, the French presence represents a strong support for the pacification of the region. Djibouti is also the only country in the Horn to be Francophone, which is a significant factor. French, along with Arabic, is one of the two official languages of the country, and the Djiboutian authorities maintain a strong attachment to the Francophonie even if it is losing momentum. Djibouti is also a member of the International Organization of la Francophonie. It should be noted that Ms Frédérique Vidal, the Minister of Higher Education and Research, accompanied the President of the Republic during his visit to the region. There are indeed strong expectations of young Djiboutians, to which we have responded by strengthening cooperation in higher education, youth mobility and teacher training. In an area exposed to radical religious influences, the Francophonie is indeed an important vector of our influence, and its development contributes to preserving the ties forged by history. But la francophonie, it is also values that guide our action, that compel us and compel our partners. It is an essential element in the promotion of peace, democracy and human rights, which France intends to represent and to bear. I will not dwell on the need to strengthen our economic partnership in this region of the world where 40 per cent of the world's energy supplies and maritime trade are transiting. While Djibouti has a strategic interest in being located on the Bab el-Mandeb Strait, one of the most frequent maritime corridors in the world, the country is also affected by the low availability of water resources, food insecurity and the energy deficit. Water supply has always been a real challenge for people and authorities, although a cross-border system of drinking water supply between Djibouti and Ethiopia has been achieved. With regard to energy, our companies, which are ready to invest in the long term, want to strengthen our cooperation in the development of renewable energy. Djibouti is also particularly concerned about the consequences of climate change, as the country is experiencing an increased frequency of extreme hydrological events. On this issue which concerns us all, the President of the Republic has announced the establishment of a regional observatory to participate in research. The Republic of Djibouti is therefore a partner in environmental protection in the region. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, the signing of this protocol confirms our strategic partnership with Djibouti and reaffirms the will to sustain our presence in the region. More than a symbol, its ratification will, I hope, be the beginning of an even richer cooperation with this Francophone island, and will allow us to meet the country's expectations while continuing to promote our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u120	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u121	The French Republic and the Republic of Djibouti have been friendly countries for many decades and I am delighted to be able to speak on this bill on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Movement and as secretary of the France-Djibouti friendship group. The bilateral relations we have with this French-speaking country in the Horn of Africa are dense, as evidenced by the numerous and frequent diplomatic visits that have taken place in recent years, and in particular that of our President of the Republic last March. If bilateral relations are so dense, it is also because they are diverse and multisectoral. Several French companies are located in the country and opportunities for interesting markets exist in the fields of services, infrastructure works, equipment, telecommunications and renewable energy. Djibouti is also on the list of priority countries for French development aid and the bilateral relationship remains extremely dynamic, both in the field of cultural cooperation and in the field of scientific and academic cooperation or in the field of governance. Strategic and military cooperation is also important and crucial for both our countries. The Defence Cooperation Treaty between France and Djibouti, signed on 21 December 2011, entered into force on 1 May 2014. France reaffirmed its commitment to the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Djibouti by this Treaty and the security clause it includes. This treaty determines the operational facilities granted to the French forces stationed, which constitute our largest military base abroad with more than 1,400 men. In addition, Djibouti deploys nearly 1800 soldiers trained and partially equipped by France to the African Union mission in Somalia. As you will have understood, the implantation of French forces in Djibouti is decisive in our relationship with this Republic. In line with well-identified objectives and recognized interests, it contributes strongly to the understanding of our interests in this highly strategic region, where 40 per cent of the world's energy supply flows. While we note a decrease in the number of French forces over time, particularly as a result of the rise of French forces in the United Arab Emirates, our 1450 soldiers today remain the symbol of our special relationship with this country, attested as early as 1862 with the signing of the Treaty of Friendship between the Second Empire and the Sultan of the time. While this decline is regrettable in a context where French influence is clearly competing in this French-speaking island within a very English-speaking region, the French contingent remains the only foreign force with a family presence in the country – half of the soldiers are placed there with their families for a period of three years. This method strongly energizes the French local community, with about 4000 nationals, and thus the economy of Djibouti City. We must insist on the example of the French presence, which is not merely a foreign force: our army is valued because of its relationship with the population, because of the cooperation it develops and because it participates in the local economy. Unlike the Chinese and American presences, we must continue to cultivate this difference in a new kind of partnership as desired by the President of the Republic. This is all the more important because the President of Djibouti is now looking for a way out of the alliance with China, and he sees how unbalanced it is for his country. However, any deployment of military forces must necessarily involve "warmen" police missions. While the military presence may result in certain benefits, it remains essential to be able to regulate the latter on a civil and criminal level: it is precisely the role of the provost, a French tradition and an ancient mark of the exemplaryness of our armed forces. Justice without power is powerless, strength without justice is tyrannical. The role of the Provost Marshal is attached to the administration of good justice, and no one ignores it. As I recall, the provost carries out judicial police missions with our foreign-based military forces as well as general police missions aimed in particular at suppressing public order disturbances which may involve French military personnel or incur the responsibility of the State. This pre-votal tradition is essential to orderly parking of our armed forces. The French provost also has the role of cooperating closely with the Djiboutian security forces, particularly in the event of a disturbance to public order. This cooperative dimension is important from a functional point of view and also highlights the proximity link between our two countries. The protocol on the powers of the Provost Marshal in the territory of the Republic of Djibouti responds to a need to clarify the division of powers between the Provost Marshal and the Djibouti police or gendarmerie, in particular for the prosecution of offences committed by French staff members and their dependants. The first issue is to update marginally a legal framework dating from 1980, the one resulting from the signing of the Protocol on the powers of the Provost Marshal with regard to offences or misconduct committed by members of the French armed forces and their families in the territory of the Republic of Djibouti. The protocol that we are now called upon to endorse for ratification only confirms the uniqueness of the bond, trust and friendship firmly established between our two countries. It draws the consequences of the new division of jurisdiction established by Article 16 of the Defence Cooperation Treaty signed on 21 December 2011. As such, it is deepening a type of defence agreement that allows us to be one of the few countries that still count in this region today. The practices are changing and lead us to clarify legal regimes dating back several decades, a fortiori when it comes only to sacrificing what has already been established previously through the Treaty of 2011. Common sense therefore encourages us to approve this protocol, especially since it does not imply any change in our domestic law, its provisions being fully within the framework of the Code of Military Justice and the French Code of Criminal Procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] It is therefore in full awareness of our strategic interests and the importance of strengthening our cooperation with the Republic of Djibouti that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u122	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u123	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u124	When we were in primary school or college, the maps spoke of the "Territoire français des Afars et des Issas". It's not that far away since the country's independence dates back to 1975 – for my part, I had my baccalaureate in 1978. During all my youth, the territory of the present Republic of Djibouti was therefore French. The chairman of the commission and I went to Djibouti with Marion Lenne and Didier Quentin, without apprehension or preconceived ideas. We quickly realized that we were expected. Ms. Secretary of State and Ms. Monica Michel told us, as you yourself, Madame de Sarnez: "The ambassador is waiting for us. » This is not the colonialist approach of the past, where stupidity could exist, but a response to a form of waiting: the people of Djibouti are waiting for us. We met several business and industrial leaders, who are waiting for us and say, "Come back home. Take back influence. This is the whole difference between colonialism, which I hate, and a form of affection that remains between our two countries. We visited Djibouti's military base, whose strength has decreased: from 3000 soldiers, they have increased to about 1500. It is not a base like any other: these 1500 soldiers, as well as their families, live on the territory in a kind of fraternity with the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u126	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text reminds us that the provost, an institution that may seem old, deals with road accidents, the discipline to be enforced off the ground and other minor problems. It is composed of seven gendarmes. If the interference in the affairs of a foreign country bothers me deeply, the idea of a seven-way interference surprises me a little! This force can only be a support solution. DNA analysis, for example, is not possible in Djibouti, but it exists in France: it is therefore interesting to establish cooperation in this field. Is it difficult to say, after so many years, that there is no real deal of dependency between our two countries? Yes and no – in this case, rather no. That is what this agreement reflects. On the other hand, we had the chance to meet the soldiers present in Djibouti. They brought to our knowledge an essential element of the fight against jihadism that no one thinks of. All the airmen we met told us: without training in this sector, they are totally ineffective against Daesh.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u128	Djibouti is the only place that will enable us to improve our capabilities in the fight against the Islamic State. We have only a few specialists, probably three commanders and six colonels. Not big-world, so, but beautiful guys, who are seriously doing their job. It is therefore important that we continue to build on this momentum, especially as the people of Djibouti accept our approach. As I said earlier, the families of the French military live in Djibouti. Mrs de Sarnez will no doubt be mad at me to say so: we lived two days in a rather chic hotel... And we found the German army there. It's surreal: they don't live with people, but in a four-star hotel. We also saw the Chinese base, halfway between Fort Knox and Fort Chabrol. You don't see a Chinese; They're locked up. Neither do we see the Indians, nor the Americans, nor the Japanese. In Djibouti, we are the only ones living with our brothers. Perhaps what I'm saying is excessive; In any case, we are not here as colonizers. Our state of mind must be balanced and prudent, as always, but we can accomplish beautiful things. This protocol on the powers of the Provost Marshal in the territory of the Republic of Djibouti concerns seven gendarmes. How can we not ratify it, when we know that it would strengthen their authority regarding, among other things, interventions on road accidents? We were concerned about the planned cooperation with the Djibouti police. However, it will focus only on areas of which France is a specialist – such as DNA analysis – in the event of a crime. Under no circumstances is it a way for France to decide the course of business. I hope that the few unfortunate precedents where it has gone otherwise will not happen again. The expectation of the people of Djibouti is absolutely exceptional and I cannot imagine how we might not vote for this text. Didier Quentin, Marion Lenne, Marielle de Sarnez and I visited the Chinese hub. The exceptional set that the Chinese are building risks a severe blow to the ports of Le Havre and Dunkirk. We must resist; We resist because of our emotional bond with the people of Djibouti. We must continue this way. The Socialist and related group will not hesitate to vote for this text. In my view, this is not an interference, let alone a colonization. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq also applauds]] Let's read Victor Hugo: in Notre-Dame de Paris, Phoebus was the captain of the guard. Two cases escaped the provost of Paris, two abominable crimes: heresy and lèse-majesté. Let's forget heresy. As for lesis majesty, long life for President Macron! And if I have to be a little heretic, it will be by voting for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u129	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u130	As you said, Madam Secretary of State: the scope of this protocol is not to be overestimated. Nevertheless, we all agree in this Chamber that Djibouti is a country of strategic importance, including issues beyond the Horn of Africa. Strategic importance because this country is located in the Bab al-Mandeb Strait, where 40 per cent of the world's energy supplies transit. This country and strait are therefore the subject of many lusts, as evidenced by the establishment of US, Chinese, Japanese or German military bases. Yes, the world's major economic powers have understood the importance of extending their influence in this region at the crossroads of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. It is clear that China, whose ambitions in Africa are known – to the point of talking about Chinafrique for many years now – sees Djibouti as a real hub for the rest of Africa and invests heavily in infrastructure. As you pointed out, Madam Chairman of the Commission, this investment is being made for Djibouti at the cost of a colossal debt owed to the Chinese dragon. Competition is therefore becoming more and more fierce in Djibouti, where the great powers are playing a game of influence. Djibouti is a French-speaking island in an English-speaking East Africa where France is increasing its influence, as demonstrated by the recent displacement of the President of the Republic to Djibouti, Ethiopia and Kenya, in which I had the honour of participating. But Djibouti remains, despite the presence of these international desires, a vulnerable country, particularly due to a lack of economic diversification. I therefore welcomed, more than a year ago, the decision of the Interministerial Committee on International Cooperation and Development to keep Djibouti on the list of priority countries receiving French official development assistance. That is what Monica Michel's report reminds us of, and I would like to pay tribute to the quality of that report. French cooperation with Djibouti in defence matters is unparalleled. Only with France has Djibouti concluded a defence agreement. The French forces stationed in Djibouti defend the integrity of the territory, participate in the surveillance of the air and maritime areas and train their Djiboutian counterparts, since the country's independence in 1977. If the French military presence is a structuring element of our bilateral relationship, I believe that the priority given to Djibouti as well as to other countries receiving official development assistance – in the social, climate and even economic field, through the Choose Africa programme – will have repercussions on the next finance law. Our bilateral relationship will expand beyond military matters. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Foreign Affairs Committee has received the draft law authorizing the approval of the Protocol on the powers of the Provost Marshal concluded in March 2017. This protocol is necessary because it updates an almost forty-year-old legal framework. This updated legal basis will provide a solid foundation to sustain and strengthen our strategic partnership with Djibouti.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u131	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u132	The main objective of the 2017 Protocol is to clarify the division of powers between the Provost Marshal and the Djibouti police or gendarmerie for the prosecution of offences committed by French staff members and their dependants. The 2017 Protocol complements Article 16 of the 2011 Defence Treaty, which determines the jurisdiction to try offences committed by staff members and sets jurisdictional priorities according to the nature or place of commission of the offence. In the case of French forces stationed in Djibouti, France exercises jurisdiction in all offences resulting from any act or negligence committed by a French staff member in service, offences committed exclusively against the security or property of the French State or the property or person of a member of the French armed forces, and offences committed by members of the French armed forces or dependants within the facilities made available to the French authorities. The Protocol also amends the 1986 Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance by introducing a derogation on the execution of letters rogatory and on the surrender of documents of procedure and judicial decisions issued by the French judicial authorities which fall within the competence of the Djiboutian judicial authorities. This derogation authorizes the formations of the provost, under certain conditions, to act independently "to serve only these citations or to carry out these mandates alone within the premises. It also authorizes the provost to execute "the letters rogatory from the French judicial authorities with regard to the offences referred to in Article 16.2 of the Treaty". The new features of the 2017 Protocol concern the articulation of cooperation with EU law and Djibouti's domestic law. Indeed, agreements between France and Djibouti must not contravene European law and must not require any amendment of Djibouti's domestic law. Each country will retain its own competence and legitimacy in its areas of concern. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At present, the Djiboutian State is still in the process of ratification. That is why it is urgent that we vote unanimously, as we did in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the bill authorizing the ratification of this protocol, to clarify the role of each institution and thus preserve the good relations between our two countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u133	I have received a motion from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to adjourn pursuant to Rule 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u134	The Communist Group wants to defend a motion to adjourn, so that we can look beyond the only provost. Indeed, to discuss our relations with Djibouti is to talk about the traces of French colonization, since, as we explained in a more technical way in the general discussion, this memorandum of understanding takes its roots in the decolonization of Djibouti by France on 27 June 1977. By leaving political power to the new State, however, France has not lost any influence on this territory, particularly on the military level, since our country benefited, before leaving, from the granting of a permanent military base. This barracks, Camp Lemonnier, became the largest French military base abroad, with nearly 3,000 soldiers. It retained its status, but only welcomed 1,450 soldiers, accompanied by their families. In 2011, a Defence Cooperation Treaty brought the two States closer together considerably, since France became, under Article 4 of the Treaty, the defender of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Djibouti. Djibouti's military dependence on our country is therefore almost total. But while France has a separate status vis-à-vis Djibouti, it is not the only country with its military base on the spot. The strategic position of this state probably makes it the most popular land confitti of Africa, if not of the world. The Strait facing Djibouti is at the heart of global geopolitics, and it is unthinkable that it can be obstructed by anyone, hence the readiness of the great military powers to position themselves there. Ismaïl Omar Guelleh, President of Djibouti, has understood it well and, for several years, a place on his territory for military bases in exchange for interesting subsidies. Since Djibouti is almost a desert, where temperatures are extreme and can exceed 60 degrees Celsius, this is the most lasting and simple way to turn the economy, even if it remains artificial, since the population never sees the fruits of the resulting growth. The United States, China, Japan and France have military bases alongside each other. The Americans permanently stationed close to 4,300 soldiers in the largest base of the American army in the African zone. China has installed 600 soldiers for the time being, but has just completed the construction of a 10000 base. Since Beijing's place in Africa has expanded considerably in recent years, it needs to strengthen its military presence to fully build its strength and benefit from a strategic projection capability in this area. Japan has 600 soldiers, and the French contingent, as we have said, is 1,450 soldiers. In addition to these permanent bases, the troops of Operation Atalante are present. This force, fed by the Member States of the European Union, has about six ships and as many maritime patrol aircraft. These European military forces are also based in Djibouti, although the housing conditions seem to be surprising and costly, as the soldiers are housed in hotels. This EU mission was deployed ten years ago to protect the delivery of food aid to Somalia and to curb the piracy of the Horn of Africa, which was spoken of in 2000, when Al-Qaeda attacked the USS Cole warship there. The Somali waters and the Bab-el-Mandeb Strait were very quickly the scene of anti-piracy operations, which can now be described as a real success: in 2018, there was no hijacking of ships in this area, even though tensions remain, especially as a result of the war in Yemen. For our globalized and highly interdependent economies, this passage through the sea, through which about 5 million barrels of oil pass a day and more than one third of world trade, is fundamental. No great economic power can do without it, so everyone wants to be there to monitor the area. The presence of military forces is very important in this small space, as international issues are crucial. This agreement on the competences of the French provost in Djibouti, which complements the bilateral military agreement signed in 2011, demonstrates that France does not intend to release this area. Our country wishes to have stronger ties to maintain military, diplomatic and, ultimately, political influence at all costs. But with the presence of other bases and China's economic power, which has emerged in this area in recent years, French influence is decreasing. For almost a decade, Djibouti's strategy has begun to change in depth. Taking on the model of the Asian city-state, taking advantage of its geographical location, since it is ideally placed on the world's trade routes, Djibouti wants to become an international logistics and commercial hub. China has seen this potential for ten years and has invested nearly $14 billion in China with a GDP of $1 billion, placing it at the heart of the silk road strategy. In particular, the State of Djibouti inaugurated a giant free trade area a year ago, created by China to facilitate this role as a hub for trade between Africa, Asia and Europe. With very interesting tax advantages for investors, this area could facilitate Ethiopia's exports, which is becoming a key player in the textile sector, to Asia and Europe. To this, add the creation of three ports in a few years in the country and a train line from Addis Ababa to Djibouti City, built opportunely by China, and you have a relatively clear picture of what is being played on the spot. All this has, at least, a very perverse effect: these huge infrastructure projects in Djibouti were carried out on credit from Beijing. The country of Xi Jinping is now Djibouti's main creditor; It holds almost 70 per cent of its external debt, making the country very sensitive to the Asian giant's wishes. The State of Djibouti is trying to strengthen itself at the heart of a region where instability prevails. The Bab-el-Mandeb Strait stirs up lusts, and sometimes there is the impression that everything is happening here: it is enough to list the States bordering the Red Sea, namely Eritrea, the Sudan, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Djibouti, Yemen and Saudi Arabia, to demonstrate the intensity of diplomatic and military activity in the area. To this, we must add the Russian presence, which has agreed with China to share its barracks in Djibouti. Iran is trying to preserve its influence in this area, beyond the Arabian peninsula, especially as it intervenes in the war in Yemen where the Huthis rebels, fought by Saudi Arabia, are close to Tehran. Turkey is also present in the Red Sea, thanks to the small island of Suakin, which was granted to it for ninety-nine years at the end of 2017 by Sudan, against promises of investment, reconstruction and military cooperation. This island will eventually house a Turkish barracks. This presence strongly irritates Egypt, which sees it as an interference by Turkey in its sphere of influence, since Ankara has always supported political Islam and the Muslim Brotherhood, while Cairo fights these movements with the utmost firmness within its borders. Let us also refer to the Somali question: the Somaliland and Punt regions are assisted by regional forces in their desire for independence, in response to geopolitical fluctuations and the struggles against terrorist groups that gnaw Somalia. And all this, not to mention the inter-ethnic conflicts between Issas and Afars, most of which live in Ethiopia! The dictator of Djibouti, Ismail Omar Guelleh, regularly manipulates these tensions for political purposes; Since he himself came from an Issa tribe, he recently interfered in inter-ethnic fighting in Ethiopia, with the aim of obtaining the favour of the Issas in view of his future mandate in 2021, but also contributing to the destabilization of Ethiopia and Eritrea. The recent fragile peace between these two countries could indeed bring a fatal blow to Djibouti's economic expansion: Eritrea's territory is much easier to access than Djibouti in peacetime and has a better maritime facade, so that the Djiboutian regime has everything to lose in this reconciliation. But it's worse: Yemen. Located a few nautical miles from Djibouti, the world's worst humanitarian disaster is taking place with its share of atrocities and disruptions for maritime traffic in the Red Sea. This extremely complex situation – in which France participates through its arms sales to Saudi Arabia, as the Communist deputies keep reminding us – tends to destabilize the trade in East Africa. If the conflict gets bogged down, as appears to be the case, it will complicate Djibouti's economic expansion. But the war in Yemen is not the only challenge linking East Africa to the Arabian Peninsula. An illegal migration route, linking Africa, especially Ethiopia, to Saudi Arabia, passes through Djibouti. According to the International Organization for Migration, every month several thousand migrants, often Ethiopians, try to reach Saudi Arabia, via Djibouti and Yemen, in search of work and a better life. The crossing is much cheaper and a little less difficult than that of the Mediterranean, which probably explains why it is so borrowed. Worse, this migration route is two-way. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimated that nearly 20,000 Yemenis had fled to Djibouti since 2015. A United Nations camp is located in Obock, about 100 kilometres from Djibouti City, and houses nearly 3,000 Yemeni refugees. Some stayed here, others continued their journey. The strait is very narrow, barely 30 kilometres, and gives the hope of being easily traversed. Unfortunately, the currents are very strong and often kill those who try to cross. Hundreds of deaths have been found on Djiboutian beaches in recent years. The very strong interlocking of all these destabilising external issues favours an internal context of total impunity of the Head of State, as many countries rely on the political stability of that country to maintain their trade and military position in the area. A regime change could mean a change in the strategy of Djibouti's political power and undermine the future of military barracks or trade with China. The President of the Republic of Djibouti fully understood this and proved to be indispensable. A politician since the late 1960s, he was one of the actors in his country's independence in 1977. As soon as the regime changed, he became Chief of Staff of the President of the Republic, Hassan Gouled Aptidon, and succeeded him as President of the Republic in 1999. He has been in power since then, exercising his fourth mandate and has worked for twenty years to crush any opposition. Ismaïl Omar Guelleh is all-powerful, and nothing seems to call his regime into question, not even his country's extreme poverty – poverty and unemployment rates reach 40% of the population – or the fact that almost half of Djibouti's citizens do not reach the end of primary school. The list of concerns on civil and political rights, drawn up in March 2018 by the UN Human Rights Council as part of its universal periodic review, is very long. The report states that the United Nations is "seriously concerned by reports of excessive and indiscriminate use of force by members of Djibouti's security forces, including the use of live bullets resulting in the death of at least 27 people and 150 injured in clashes between demonstrators and the authorities". The Human Rights Committee has also expressed its concern "at allegations of human rights violations allegedly committed by the security forces [...], including excessive use of force, arbitrary arrests, torture and ill-treatment of demonstrators". The same Committee expressed its "deep regret at Djibouti's failure to investigate thoroughly alleged cases of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". But that is not all, the United Nations has also denounced the politically motivated prosecution, harassment of defence lawyers, excessive length of pretrial detention, threats and other intimidation of human rights defenders and journalists by law enforcement and military authorities. In addition, UNESCO criticized the fact that only the official media was authorized and that the only Internet service provider was managed by the State. In short, the list of human rights grievances is excessively long for such a small country. Ismaïl Omar Guelleh brutalizes his civil society and violently obstructs any attempt at political expression. In this field of political expression, the case of Mohamed Kadamy represents the most serious judicial case between France and Djibouti. Mohamed Kadamy is the president of the Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy in Djibouti, the FRUD, a political and armed resistance movement to the dictatorial regime of Guelleh, created in 1991. At the request of the Djiboutian authorities, who issued an international rogatory commission, Mohamed Kadamy was summoned on 13 February 2019 by the French investigating judge Serge Tournaire. Along with his colleague from Djibouti, the magistrate heard him and then charged him with "acts of complicity by instigation of crimes against the integrity of persons, of sequestration, of diversion of means of transport, of extortion and of destruction by the effect of a fire of public and private property, an undertaking whose aim was to seriously disturb public order through terror, committed on 30 September 2015". One of the most serious aspects of this story is that, despite his status as a political refugee, which normally guarantees him the full confidentiality of his personal contact information vis-à-vis the State he fled, his file was forwarded to the Djiboutian courts in the framework of the rogatory commission with all these details – address, telephone number, places usually frequented etc. It's a terrible breach of his security. It is extremely worrying that a man who enjoys the protection of political refugee status in France has managed to be summoned by the French courts executing the request for Djiboutian justice. It is an open breach in the very status of political refugee and we dare not imagine that this case would lead to extradition as the resulting jurisprudence would be inhumane. The Maralé event highlighted by the rogatory commission concerns the fire by FRUD militants of vehicles from an Egyptian leasing company carrying Djiboutian military equipment and troops engaged in an offensive in August-September 2015 in this northern part of the country. The vehicles, empty, were burned on site. This military action resulted in arbitrary arrests and torture in detention. Mohamed Kadamy, informed after the action – he was in France – published a press release on 3 October 2015 describing the exact conditions under which the FRUD activists had acted, which was interpreted by the Djiboutian authorities as a formal claim and allowed them to request his indictment for terrorism. But more prosaically, it happens that Mohamed Kadamy and the FRUD were at the initiative, in September 2018, of a gathering of democratic forces opposing Guelleh. Coming at the time when the latter announced that he would run for a fifth term in 2021, by muzzling any opposition to his regime, this demonstration was badly experienced by the dictator. Ismaïl Omar Guelleh therefore wants to attack the main supporter of a peaceful and democratic political transition solution, Mohamed Kadamy, president of the FRUD. What is very worrying is that in an article published in mid-April 2019 in the magazine Jeune Afrique, the President of the Republic of Djibouti announced that he would make an extradition request to try Mohamed Kadamy in his country, since he, although a political refugee in France, still has Djiboutian nationality. This whole case landed in the office of Mr.Tournaire, investigating judge at the financial center of the Paris court of great instance. In particular, he heard the Bygmalion case, the case of arbitration on the Credit Lyons case and the Fillon case. He is also responsible for investigating the Sarkozy-Khadafi case, which concerns the suspicion of financing by the second of the first election campaign in 2007.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u135	This judge has a job!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u136	One of the witnesses, or accomplices, of this case would hide in Djibouti. This individual is Wahib Nacer. Banquier and former head of the private management bank Indosuez-Crédit Agricole in Geneva, he has taken refuge in Djibouti since 2017 after his name appeared in the Sarkozy-Kadhafi case. He would indeed have had a role in the sale of a villa in Mougins purchased at an abnormally high price by the Libyan authorities on behalf of Alexander Djhouri, who would have benefited from this generous amount on behalf of Nicolas Sarkozy. All of this is conditional. Would the Djiboutian authorities be monetizing Mr. Wahib Nacer's questioning by Judge Tournaire in exchange for Mr. Kadamy's removal to Djibouti? The question deserves to be asked. Would France try to redeem some of its influence from Ismail Omar Guelleh at the cost of Mr. Kadamy's removal to Djibouti and to a probable death? For Mohamed Kadamy knows too well the nature of this regime. As early as 1968, he participated in high school demonstrations in Djibouti and was imprisoned for this. While Mr.Kadamy had recently been a political refugee in France, the Djiboutian regime repeatedly requested his extradition – in 1979 and 1995 – without success. It was Ethiopia that finally delivered Mr. Kadamy to Djibouti in 1997, just before the latter provided him with maritime access. Coincidence? Mohamed Kadamy was then locked up in Gabode prison, subjected to ill-treatment and torture with several other FRUD leaders and with his pregnant wife, who will only be released a few days before his delivery. Although it concerns a person to whom she has given political asylum, France will remain silent on this matter. The treatment of political prisoners in Djibouti is still a serious problem, reinforcing the concern expressed by Mohamed Kadamy's supporters that he should be extradited. On 2 August 2017, Mohamed Ahmed, said Jabha, another political opponent of Ismail Omar Guelleh, died in prison. Accused of being an Eritrean agent, he was held in pre-trial detention in 2010 for seven years and was sentenced to 15 years in prison. Despite his lawyer's numerous warnings, his state of health was never taken into account in his detention. He died of it. Colleagues, the purpose of this motion is to move the adjournment of this bill. I tried to demonstrate to you how the policy of dictator Guelleh stemmed from the strategic position of the state he leads, and to show you his ability to play with the geopolitical instability of the region. Autocrat protected by the powerful, this man does not exercise his power in a democratic or republican way. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] The Communist deputies warn you of the unconditional support given by our country to certain infrequent men for the sole purpose of maintaining its geostrategic position. Similarly, in Chad, France uses realpolitik arguments to maintain a military projection capability. But let us think carefully: they are entire peoples who suffer, who are left out, who remain in poverty, ignorance, lack of care and employment in the name of our very small privileges as great powers. Let us keep barracks and our provost in Djibouti, but gracefully, let us not protect the dictators who welcome them. And I know that all of us together will make sure that we never extradite Mohamed Kadamy from France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u137	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u138	At the end of the examination of these three conventions, I would like to thank the Members who are still present at this early hour and to stress how far they are not anecdotal at all. Indeed, they are considered by the partner countries with whom we sign them as progress – the scope of which, of course, varies according to the texts. In any case, you should know that they are, above all, a major task of diplomacy, then of drafting, and finally of follow-up. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the agents of the Quai d'Orsay: in their various functions, they contribute to this diplomacy of small steps that, by touches, draw our vision of international relations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u139	And we thank the Government for its response to the motion to adjourn...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u140	Colleagues, I wish to inform you that, in the event that the adjournment motion is not adopted,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u141	Assumption of chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u142	...I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote on the single article. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u143	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u144	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have heard our colleague say that we should go beyond the mere purpose of the text, but I would like to make you aware of the situation of those who, on the ground, have their hands in the country. I assure you that when I was at the head of my section, in external operation, or at the head of my company, in Germany, and I received, in the middle of the night, a call from the provosts to inform me of a rape, a robbery, a blue card fraud, a road accident... well, I was really delighted to have them as intermediaries and not to have to deal, in Germany, with Polizei or, in the field, with the local forces. There is a strong expectation of the military and their families on the ground, and that is why I very much hope that this text will be voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u145	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u146	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 17 Number of votes cast 14 Absolute majority 8 For adoption 14 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-08-E1008.u147	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Vote by public vote on the bill to combat hate on the Internet; Final reading of the proposal for a law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories; Discussion of the text of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for an organic law on the appointment of the Director-General of that agency; Discussion of the text of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law establishing the French Biodiversity Office and on the draft organic law on the application of the fifth paragraph of article 13 of the Constitution. The meeting is adjourned.
