ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u2	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor to put her question, No 774, on the tele-declaration of the dossiers of the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u3	My question is for the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who was, two days ago, with the farmers of the Drôme, who were the victims of considerable damage due to thunderstorms and hail. Allier farmers are also experiencing significant weather damage. I am thinking in particular of the drought, which was terrible in 2018 and is expected to be of the same magnitude in 2019: with my colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne, here, we were this weekend with the prefect, according to which the current level of precipitation was equivalent to that of August, so that the department was placed under increased vigilance last week and that it took measures of restriction. In addition to the climatic difficulties, which affect the exercise of their profession, the farmers in my constituency have told me of administrative problems. As the 2019 campaign, with regard to the changes to the declaration, ended last week, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the expectations, which are a source of concern, of farmers regarding the tele-declarations of applications for aid under the CAP, the common agricultural policy. Since 2015, many of them have experienced significant delays in payment, which, for some, have just been caught up, while these are sometimes three to four-year-old campaigns. The conditions for telereporting for the campaign for 2019, which ended on 15 May, did not reassure them. Indeed, many files could not be opened and informed as early as 1 April 2019, the date of the launch of the campaign, because farmers did not have all the necessary information, due to the lack of duly finalised instructions. In addition to the climatic hazards I mentioned earlier, the profession regularly suffers from many others, economic and – recently – media. It cannot see its cash flow further weakened due to administrative uncertainties. That is why I would like to know what initiatives will be taken in order, on the one hand, to bring more flexibility to the examination of the dossiers and to prevent farmers from facing penalties for errors related to the reporting conditions, and, on the other hand, to send instructions on time or, failing that, to open all the dossiers on the date scheduled for the next marketing year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u5	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u6	Mrs Peyrol, I apologize for the absence of Didier Guillaume, who is still in Drôme, from the farmers. Your question is about the tele-reporting campaign for CAP files. First, we would like to point out that the schedule for the return to normal of the 2018 campaign payments, on which the Government had committed itself on 21 June 2017, has to date been respected; We can congratulate ourselves on that. The aid for the 2018 marketing year was paid according to the normal schedule: advances from 16 October 2018, the balance from 14 December. At national level, a total of EUR 7.66 billion was paid, representing more than 99% of the aid. The first payments for agri-environmental and climate measures and aid for organic farming for the 2018 marketing year were made in March 2019 and will be finalised by the end of the year; To date, 44% of cases have been acquitted, reflecting a return to normal. The 2019 campaign will also take place according to the normal calendar. The tele-declaration, which took place between 1 April and 15 May, took place in good conditions. As of May 15, 2019, 345226 files had been filed, compared with 347252 files on the same date in 2018; This is what was expected, given the annual erosion of the number of applicants. The processing of applications has already begun in DDT, the departmental directorates of the territories. The normal payment schedule will be respected for the benefit of farmers. As regards simplification, there is a need to make efforts in this area, we agree. Be assured that we are taking this position high in the context of the next CAP negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u7	Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 780, concerning the increase in the registration fees for foreign students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u8	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, I would like to draw your attention to the increase in the fees for the enrolment of foreign students in French universities and, in particular, to the consequences of this measure for the University of Strasbourg – which will certainly interest the President of the sitting – as well as for the University of Haute-Alsace. The University of Strasbourg welcomes more than 10,000 foreign students each year. Two thirds come not from Europe but from countries such as Lebanon, Ghana or Colombia, where the standard of living is much lower than ours. The vast majority of these students already have recourse to borrowing, in addition to their savings, to study and live in our country. The increase in registration fees for non-European students will be a hindrance to their arrival in France, put us at risk of dropping out of the attractiveness of our higher education and will create a regrettable caesure between our country, our universities and the rest of the world. Unfortunately, this increase will also lead to a weakening of the attractiveness of our country, our regions, our territories and, ultimately, our businesses. These young foreign students will prefer to turn to other European universities, while coming to study at home would contribute to the future of our country and would mainly contribute to the international influence of France. In Alsace, a land traditionally oriented towards Europe and the world, the absence of non-European students on university campuses is perfectly inconceivable. In view of the figures I have quoted and the reality of foreign students living in our universities, what steps do you think you are taking, Madam Minister, to ensure that they can retain their place in our universities and thus contribute to strengthening the attractiveness of our country through our knowledge, our research and our innovation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u9	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u10	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u11	Mr Reitzer, the objective of the "Bienvenue en France" strategy is to attract more foreign students to our country, by considerably improving their reception conditions and by sorting out the number of scholarships and exemptions so that all students who want to choose France can continue to do so. For the first time, the international attractiveness of our universities has become a government priority, as the Prime Minister said on November 19. This involves simplifying the procedures for obtaining and renewing visas, which we have conducted with the Ministry of the Interior. This also requires the establishment of a redistributive system to support the funding of a better reception of all foreign students. What is at stake is to create a link of solidarity between foreign students who will have the capacity to pay these differentiated rights and those who will not. The latter will naturally be exempt from this, but they will nevertheless benefit from quality reception conditions. Non-European students already engaged in a course in France will not be affected, nor will doctoral students, who will be exempt. The differentiated fees will also not apply to students with tax residency status in France, who are obtained after a few years of study. For all the others, we have planned the introduction of a system of scholarships and exemptions, which will be issued either by diplomatic posts, as was already the case before, or directly by universities, which is new. At the national level, we have already tripled the number of scholarships and exemptions notified to diplomatic posts. At the local level, each university already has the capacity, while respecting its autonomy, to exempt its non-European students and thus build, gradually, over several years, a strategy of attractiveness. The differentiated fee enforcement decree also allows each institution to modulate the level of exemption that it will apply to the fees for foreign students. Finally, with a view to the coming year, we have made available to the institutions an envelope of EUR 10 million, which will allow the establishment of one-stop shops this year, in order to improve the reception of students and the development of French as a foreign language, as part of a call for projects. These various measures have already made it possible to ensure the near-stability of applications for licences for next year – admissions represent only a small fraction of these applications. They will also allow each of the institutions, including the University of Strasbourg and the University of Haute-Alsace, to project in time its strategy of attractiveness while building its policy of international solidarity, for the benefit of all its foreign students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u12	Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u13	Minister, I take note of your explanations and the accompanying measures that you are applying. However, the fees were not very high, and that was one of the strengths of our higher education. To compensate for their increase, you take various measures, including specific measures for certain places. This leads me to think, I repeat, that we are building a new gas plant! That's why I'm still skeptical. I think these increases will have disastrous consequences. Above all, the message sent around the world is not very positive for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u14	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u15	I'll give you an appointment in two years – if we are still here – to take stock.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u16	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 761, on the assignment of the bachelors of La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u17	First of all, I would like to greet all the high school students who are graduating this week. I have a special thought for those of La Réunion. I want to tell them that they are the hope of our island and its future; We are counting on them and I wish them and all French high school students success. As the 2019 baccalaureate exams began yesterday, Monday, June 17, high school students received the first answers on the platform for admission to higher education, called "Parcoursup". Between May 15 and June 17, the first assignment responses arrived. Many high school students, despite good results over the past year, have been denied their applications for admission to reunite courses. They therefore have to apply in establishments in Hexagon. When placed on waiting list, they will receive a response during the supplementary phase, which will take place from 25 June to 14 September. Several hundred of them are in this case. Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, we must imagine the stress that this situation causes for these high school students: their future is suspended from the decisions of software that will decide their fate, and they will only know at the last moment if they will have to leave their island to go to study 10000 kilometers from there. These cannot be considered acceptable conditions for passing the baccalaureate exams with the necessary concentration and serenity. Madam Minister, I ask you two things. First, a derogation procedure should be put in place which allows a period of at least one and a half months before the school year for students wishing to study or leaving in the hexagonal territory or being forced to do so. This delay would not only allow them to prepare for a move made complicated by remoteness, but also reduce their anxiety. Secondly, it would be necessary to create an individualised support unit in order to manage, on a case-by-case basis, the financial issues relating to the departure to Hexagon, to facilitate the procedures relating to housing at the place of study and to assist in the installation of these young Reunions. They and they are the future of La Réunion and our country. We must take care of our young people and avoid unnecessary additional hassle. Reunion and overseas have record levels of unemployment, particularly among young people; It is the duty of the State to create all the conditions to combat this scourge. Thank you, minister, for taking my requests into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u18	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u19	To date, Mr.Ratenon, more than 85% of high school students have already received at least one proposal for placement on the Parcoursup, while we are still one month from the close of the main proceedings, which will take place on 19 July. This early date, in 2019, satisfies your request to interrupt the closing one and a half months before the start of the school year. All applicants placed on hold or refused in selective courses are subject to a very specific approach, in accordance with the provisions of the Student Guidance and Success Act. Under the latter, ultramarine students wishing to continue their studies outside their home academy are subject to a special procedure: they will in fact be deemed to have come from the academy which provides the training for which they have applied. Ten new wishes may be expressed in the supplementary procedure from the end of June. For those who will have to follow their studies in Hexagon, a specific accompaniment has been set up at the level of the CROUS – the regional centres of academic and academic works – and the rectorates, and a mobility aid of 500 euros has been renewed this year in order to help all new students, including, of course, those coming from La Réunion. This assistance, which is in addition to the grants on social criteria that future students may receive, can be requested directly on the platform, which contains all the useful information, on this subject as well as on the specific arrangements for supporting student life – students have been able to benefit from this information for several weeks. In La Réunion, as elsewhere, we have also put in place, as early as 25 June of this year, a series of three milestones to accompany the orientation of candidates who wish to do so and who are still hesitant. Guidance counsellors are permanently available, including for appointments, via the platform or by telephone. I would therefore like to reassure you: everything is being done by the Government to accompany with the highest degree of demand all our future students in access to higher education, including, of course, our ultramarine students, who, as you have said, are the future of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u20	The floor is open to Mr François Jolivet, to put his question, No. 770, on drought in Indre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u21	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, thank you for replacing the Minister of Agriculture and Food. I want to warn you about the worrying level of drought in Indre: one could even say that the department is dry, since it is the only red ranked in France, its rivers being already at their lowest level, fifteen days before the arrival of the summer. The situation continues to deteriorate, with a rainfall deficit of 35 per cent throughout the country. The entry into force of the water restriction measures has been in effect since last April. This drought has a significant impact on the ecosystem and the agricultural economic fabric. Losses are also recorded in individuals, where soil and basement collapses and cracks are observed in the walls of built structures. The situation is very worrying, particularly for the whole agricultural world, which has lived three difficult years in a row.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u23	Our cereal farmers, our farmers, our wine growers are the biggest victims. Drought has serious consequences for the production of fodder and cereals. The situation of the entire agricultural sector, which has already been affected, is becoming a matter of concern, and concern is growing in a department which, moreover, is eligible for ICHN, the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps. What measures does the Government intend to take? What instructions have been given to departmental departments to deal with this issue in the name of national solidarity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u24	Very good question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u25	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u26	The Minister of Agriculture and Food has asked me to answer you, Mr Jolivet, on this subject on which his ministry and mine are working together. Your question concerns the Government's response to the lack of water, particularly in your department, Indre. Indeed, France was hit in 2018 by an exceptional drought, and some territories are already facing a situation of water tension after a particularly dry spring. A few weeks ago, I convened a monitoring committee to monitor the situation: it emerged that a dozen departments are already on alert, including Indre, which is placed on red alert. This is due to the particularly low level of rivers and the fact that not all groundwaters have recovered after the winter, although the rains of the last few days should give our farmers a little more air. If the situation were to worsen, the Government would mobilize, as it did in 2018 with an envelope of 201 million euros to compensate farmers, and activate support measures. Didier Guillaume has already sent a request to the European Commission a few weeks ago for a derogation to make the fallow areas grazable. However, you are right to point out that with climate change, the events we are talking about will become more and more frequent. The amount of water available will be considerably reduced as demand grows and, in places, it is not being met. As a result, conflicts of use may increase. This subject is at the heart of the second phase of the Assises de l'eau, co-hosted by François de Rugy, Didier Guillaume and myself. Like other economic sectors, French agriculture must respond to the challenge of adapting to less available water: it must be more efficient and, where it is useful and sustainable, carry out winter water storage projects. In order to facilitate this transition, the Government issued a new instruction in early May to facilitate the establishment of the withholding tax and to increase the funding of water agencies. The method of land-based projects for water management has been generalized to give more room for manoeuvre to local actors and for consultation. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition have therefore both accepted the principle of these deductions. It will enable us to work on the seventy priority projects already identified, in a good understanding between environmental and agricultural actors. These projects should help, I think, to resolve the situation that you have described, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u27	Mr Olivier Gaillard has the floor to put his question, No 767, on pollution in the vicinity of the former mining site of La-Croix-de-Pallières.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u28	In the northwestern part of the Gard department, families live close to the former mine sites of La-Croix-de-Pallières, in an environment contaminated with arsenic, antimony, zinc and lead. Their daily lives are harshly marked at multiple levels, their future is uncertain and their expectations are high. However, this very large residual pollution has been known for 18 years. Very large sums were spent on studies and reports, carried out by Géodiris in 2002, by INERIS – National Institute for the Industrial Environment and Risks – in 2007, by ICF Environnement in 2012 and 2013, by IGAS – General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – in 2016, by a forensic expert in geology in 2016 and finally by ARS – Regional Health Agency – in 2018. A real risk to the environment and health is now attested. It is a health and environmental disaster. Public health, safety and compensation for exposed families are the top priorities. The place of life of one of the homeowners was classified, which led the SRA to conclude that the permanent occupants of the home should no longer be exposed to pollutants in the soil. In view of the serious threat to the health of this family, the State has proposed an amicable acquisition of the property. Other homes, located nearby on the industrial site of the tile factory, former iron laundromat of the Joseph mine, are also exposed. In any case, you will agree, the public health issue arises on an enlarged area, to be understood as a whole. The other reality is, of course, the considerable loss of value of the property located within the perimeter. The principle that seems to be appropriate is the separate treatment of each individual case. It seems imperative that the ten families exposed to pollution receive equal attention and fair treatment in the short term. In the past, this choice was made, not far from it, in order to secure and compensate populations affected by pollution of old mines in Saint-Laurent-le-Minier. Legal difficulties arise in the identification of responsibilities, the mobilization of funds and the implementation of police powers. This situation is incompatible with the urgency. The pitfall we face – the absence of a truly effective mechanism to compensate for mining damage – leads to endless legal proceedings. That is why, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I would like to know the Government's position on a possible inter-ministerial plan, involving the ministries responsible for the environment and health, with a view to coordinating the research and implementation of solutions for the safety and compensation of families. Is the announced reform of the mining code finally leading to a short-term outcome favourable to this devastated territory? If so, by what date and how? Let us not forget that the treatment of the Saint-Félix-de-Pallières file echoes the problems identified and the recommendations made by many reports, including the one issued jointly on 18 January 2012 by the CGEDD and the CGIET – Conseil général de l'environnement et du développement durable, and the Conseil général de l'économie, de l'industrie, de l'énergie et des technologies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u29	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u30	Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, cannot be present this morning, Mr Gaillard, he asked me to answer you. Like him, I am, of course, very attentive to managing the risks inherent in former mining sites, especially when polluted land is likely to pose a significant risk to human health. My services, both at headquarters and in the deconcentrated administration, are fully mobilized on these sensitive issues. You mentioned the health situation of families living near the former mining sites of La-Croix-de-Pallières. I understand the concern that such a situation can give rise to. However, in order to find the most appropriate solution, the situation of each household must be examined individually. You mentioned the special situation of the family whose property the State has decided to amicably acquire. This decision follows the various investigation campaigns carried out in 2012 and 2015, which led to the classification of the environment as "incompatible" with the property uses declared by the family, in particular due to the very high levels of lead in the soil. After studying different scenarios to restore the compatibility of land soils with housing use, and in view of the serious threat to the health of the occupants of the premises – confirmed by the health authorities – an agreement in principle was reached with the family on the amicable acquisition of the property. This agreement stems, on the one hand, from the confirmation by the RSA of the need to eliminate the exposure of the permanent occupants of this fireplace to pollutants and, on the other hand, from the fact that the former ore laundromat, converted to housing, would now, if it were still in operation, be subject to the regulation of the installations classified for the protection of the environment. In addition, the operator of the time is considered to be in default. Since other households cannot be assimilated to the previous family, their treatment must be differentiated. These homes were investigated by Geoderis, an expert on the state's post-mine, in the second half of 2016. The concentrations of lead measured in their properties are much lower than those recorded in the previous family property, which led the SRA not to issue a specific health recommendation, and Geoderis considers that contaminations affecting them are unlikely to have a mining origin. All the conditions justifying an agreement in principle with the first family are therefore not met for these other households, and there is no mobilizable mechanism, both under the environmental code and under the mining code. In December 2016, the CGDD – Commissioner of Sustainable Development – and the IGAS advocated the use, as appropriate, of the unsanitary police for the possible relocation of the persons concerned. The implementation of this police by the health authorities is a trail that has not yet been explored. On the other hand, the situation of the families at the La-Croix-de-Pallières site is not comparable to that of the families at the Saint-Laurent-le-Minier site. In the second case, the amicable acquisition involved only one dwelling, and it was necessary for the successful completion of the work. Finally, with regard to the reform of the mining code, it was announced at the ecological defence council, for a presentation in Council of Ministers by the end of 2019. Its overall objective will be to strengthen the consideration of environmental issues in the issuance of mining titles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u31	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor to put his question, No. 776, on the removal of shipwrecks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u32	Elected Azurean, I would like to refer to the wrecks of ships that pollute our seabed and our coastline, and their consequences for our communities and our coasts. The case of the commune of Antibes Juan-les-Pins, which is located in the heart of my constituency and has the largest coastline in the department, illustrates this phenomenon. A collective awareness of the dramatic consequences for the environment and the dangers to navigation posed by ship failures is needed. Outside the ports, the State is competent to deal with this problem – the prefect for the public maritime domain and the maritime prefect for any wreck on the high seas. When a ship is grounded, the responsibility of the owner, shipowner or operator is incurred, the State having the possibility of replacing the shipowner or operator to have the wrecks removed. Such substitution often occurs when the persons concerned are not identifiable or when they are insolvent; Under these conditions, the municipalities are obliged to secure shipwrecks at their own expense without being able to intervene in their removal. The procedures are complex and financially very burdensome for both the state and the communities. Having been confronted with this problem when I was first deputy of the commune of Antibes, I became aware of the difficulties encountered by the municipalities in obtaining from the State services the evacuation of the wrecks, which pollute the coast for many months. The mayor, who is close to his or her population, must be able to act and respond to the legitimate anger of his or her citizens who see their environment degraded, especially at the beginning of the tourist season. However, it does not have the legal means to evacuate the wrecks. Our coastline is a real asset and wealth that deserves to be protected and preserved from these pollutions. What measures does the Government intend to take to simplify the procedures, for example by introducing – this is a way of thinking that I allow myself to submit to you – a system of agreement between the State and the communes, allowing them to act more quickly for the removal of the wrecks? How does it intend to allow the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the municipalities to combat these pollutions? Finally, does he envisage making compulsory for the owner, the shipowner or the operator the subscription of insurance covering, in particular, this type of risk, in order to make behaviour more virtuous?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u33	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u34	Your question, Mr. Pauget, is about the evacuation of the wrecks. In particular, the mayor is responsible for public safety and security. For the municipalities bordering the sea, this power is exercised on the shore to the limit of the waters. It is therefore possible to imagine that the mayor may be forced to secure a stranded wreck on the shore and, where appropriate, to take measures to combat pollution, particularly if it is an oil tanker. Traditionally, the financial burden of the measures taken by the mayor under his municipal police power is on the municipality and not on the State. In addition, it is up to the municipality, if it believes it is justified, to ask the person responsible for the conduct causing a disturbance to public order, to reimburse it for the costs incurred in action under ordinary law; it would be the owner, owner or operator of the vessel. To determine whether, in this particular case of shipwrecks, the police measures taken by a mayor must be financed by the State, is in our view a political opportunity. A link could be made with other cases in which a mayor must intervene to safeguard public order when the situation is not a matter of his or her own fact. Sometimes, for example, green algae in Brittany or sargasse algae in the West Indies, the State paid: for green algae, it was declared responsible for the pollution and ordered to reimburse the costs incurred by the municipalities for the cleaning; for sargasse algae, it has voluntarily helped the municipalities to finance the measures. On the other hand, in the event of storms, tree falls or land movements, it is up to the commune to finance the measures. Finally, with regard to the insurance coverage of the risk of marine pollution, I would like to inform you that the International Maritime Organization has adopted five civil liability agreements providing for an insurance obligation on the owner of the ship, four of which are currently in force. They cover, respectively, persistent oil cargo pollution, oil pollution used for the propulsion of ships or the operation of their equipment, damage to passengers and removal of wrecks. A ship falling within the scope of one of these conventions must, if it is flying the flag of a State party or if it enters a port of State party, have a certificate attesting to insurance or other valid financial security to cover the damage covered by the convention in question. France has been a party to the CLC – Civil Liability Convention – on oil pollution since 1996, the CLC on bunker oil pollution since 2011, the Nairobi Convention on the removal of wreckage and the Athens Convention on the sea transport of passengers since 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u35	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to put his question, No 790, on nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u36	Ecology and energy transition are major problems in our society, which are often only touched or bypassed, and policies in these areas no longer respond to the economic, societal and ecological challenges we face. According to Yale's Environmental Performance Index, our Swiss neighbour has been in the space of just two years propelled from the sixteenth to the first place for environmental health. At the origin of such a feat, there is no closure of roadways or complete shutdown of nuclear power, but a target has been set since 2001 and its deadline will be one year from now. In twenty years, twenty presidents of the Swiss Confederation will have succeeded each other, as will four French presidents. On another scale, the number of particle alerts in Île-de-France doubled this year. On Switzerland's agenda: a decrease in nuclear energy production and an increase in renewable energy, as proposed in France. The current Swiss energy mix is 60% of the electricity produced in hydroelectric power plants and 35% in nuclear power plants. France has also developed this concept of a long-term objective, with plans to reduce nuclear energy production to 50% by 2035. It is far from the Swiss mix, for reasons of scale as well as geographical reasons, but it is also an even more distant objective from that of our German neighbours, who opted for a clumsy and too rapid exit of nuclear power by 2022, to turn to coal, a choice that is at least questionable. I would like to dwell on the idea of pragmatic ecology: not to leave nuclear power overnight, but to think about sustainable, secure and, of course, achievable alternatives. The right question is not whether nuclear power is dangerous, but whether it is more or less dangerous than other large-scale sources of electricity such as coal or hydraulics. Coal has taken the place of nuclear power in Germany and, while it is false to say that it induces an increase in CO emissions, the studies do not lie, in particular those of WWF: they show that the release of fine particles causes 23,000 premature deaths in Central Europe, mainly in coal-based electricity-producing countries. As for hydraulics, it poses environmental and also safety problems: let us remember that a break in the dam in China in 1975 was one of the most deadly accidents in history, with hundreds of thousands of victims; people must also be moved – something to drown our hopes for clean energy. Nuclear power is the object of all fantasies, especially because of the disasters it has caused. However, in order to remain objective, the 5000 cases of cancer and the 31 direct deaths recorded by the United Nations following the Chernobyl accident are pale in the face of the balance sheet of other forms of energy production. What if, on the contrary, nuclear energy saves lives? It has been proved by Michael Shellenberger, distinguished as "hero of the environment" by Time magazine, that the use of nuclear energy has saved at least 2 million lives by preventing the burning of biomass and fossil materials. Against everything, it must be said that the production of nuclear energy has done much more good to our society than it could have done. So why stop there when we can continue the research that can fill some of the gaps that have caused disasters that certainly remain engraved in our memories? Here I quote Steven Pinker: "Nordhaus and Shellenberger synthesize the calculations of an increasing number of climatologists: "There is no credible path to reducing global carbon emissions without a considerable expansion of nuclear energy. It is the only low carbon technology we have today with the proven capacity to centrally produce large amounts of electrical energy. " » Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, do you think it is wise to reduce the share of nuclear energy to the benefit of more expensive, less secure and less efficient energies? We have not yet talked about alternative energies, wind and solar. Is it not possible to take a step towards more controlled and cleaner energy production by investing in the renovation of power plants, research on nuclear development and appropriate security measures?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u37	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u38	There's not much time left for him to answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u39	You have indeed given me only a minute to answer you, Mr. Son-Forget; So I'll be brief. You quote Yale's ranking, mentioning that Switzerland is ranked first there; But you fail to say that France ranks second, which seems to me to validate our strategy. We have multi-annual energy programming and a national low-carbon strategy that, as you know, aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. In this context, we have chosen to increase the share of nuclear power to 50% of our electricity production by 2050: this target has been included in the law on the energy transition for green growth. At the same time, we have chosen to close the last coal-fired power stations by 2022, which, contrary to what you say, obviously has an impact: by returning to coal in Germany, we obviously increase greenhouse gas emissions! In the medium term, our goal is a carbon-free mix; For this, we will rely on the low-carbon energies that will be the most effective by 2050. Several solutions will need to be evaluated, ranging from a 100% renewable scenario to a scenario where nuclear energy remains a sustainable source of electricity generation. That is why the President of the Republic has called for a programme of work to be set up so that, by 2021, the elements necessary for the decision can be available.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u40	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 762, on the control of the development of wind farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u41	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to the measures to be taken quickly to avoid the anarchic development of wind in rural areas and the deterioration of certain local landscapes and living environments. Yesterday, convinced of the merits of the deployment of renewable energies, people are now concerned, as controversial projects proliferate in many territories. These situations create real tensions and raise several questions of form and substance – this is the case in the Allier department. On the form, it is inconceivable for citizens to learn from the press that a wind farm project close to their homes has received a favourable opinion in principle to initiate the procedure. This lack of information inevitably promotes reactions of rejection and nourishes a deleterious climate that leads to the confrontation of the inhabitants who previously lived in perfect harmony. On the background, wind turbines must find their place in a balanced way in the necessary development of renewable energies, which is not the case at present: wind turbines tend to develop in an anarchic way, to the will of some promoters more inclined to mount financially juicy projects than to worry about the appropriateness of the location of a particular park or the preservation of landscapes and the quality of life of the inhabitants of a territory. The energy transition will be a success only with a large public energy service that combines the territories. Without a comprehensive strategy, without undispersed development planning and under public control, we are condemned to run behind projects beyond all the rules that must prevail in the organisation of the territories and in the fight against the nuisances of which the residents are direct victims. This is particularly the case with ever-higher wind farms projects for which the current regulatory framework is no longer appropriate. There is no doubt that the rules of distance from dwellings and built or natural heritage are no longer sufficient. The idea of a calculated distance from the length of the blades or the height of the masts seems to be interesting in this respect. What measures does the Government intend to take, on the one hand, to review these regulatory distances and, on the other hand, to restore serenity to the territories? Does he intend to regain control of the development of wind energy in France thanks to a large public energy service guided by the general interest and not the only financial profitability?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u42	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u43	France has set an ambitious target under the Green Growth Energy Transition Act to increase the share of renewable electricity in the national electricity mix to 40% by 2030. Because it is a mature, competitive and low-consumption land-use sector, land-based wind turbines are destined to take their full place in the French electric mix. The publicly released multi-annual energy programming project confirms this ambition. Nevertheless, the development of wind projects, far from being anarchic, is on the contrary strongly supervised by the State. The approval of the projects is in fact part of the scheme known as the "classified installations for the protection of the environment" and falls under the authority of the Prefect. In this context, an impact assessment is carried out systematically, allowing the consideration of all the issues that you have rightly mentioned: preservation of biodiversity, landscape quality, sound and visual impacts, taking into account the results of a public survey or respecting local planning documents. A public survey is carried out, which allows the views of local authorities and citizens to be taken into account. The minimum regulatory distance from dwellings is 500 metres. However, it may be extended on a case-by-case basis, depending on the prefect's analysis. Like you, I am convinced that the association of the territories and their inhabitants with the development of wind energy is essential and will make the energy transition a success. This appropriation of projects must be possible at different levels of integration, depending on the will and capacity of each territory. That is why, in order to allow for greater involvement of local authorities and citizens, a premium is already given to projects where part of the financing or capital is open to them, in a participatory form – this is, I repeat, one of the conditions for the success of wind projects. Wind energy remains a recent object in the French landscape. The Government is determined to continue to support, improve and act towards greater acceptability by communities and residents. To this end, I have recently referred to the Higher Committee on Sites, Perspectives and Landscapes for a collective reflection on the proper articulation between the objectives of the energy transition, in particular the development of wind and photovoltaics, and the general objectives of preserving sites and landscapes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u44	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor to raise her question, No. 768, relating to the Charles-de-Gaulle Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u45	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the "Charles-de-Gaulle Express" project is definitively accepted, although postponed until the end of 2025. At the same time, no less than fifteen major projects are to be carried out or launched by 2024 on the northern railway beam of Paris, in particular line 15 West. The latter, 20 km long underground, will benefit more than 800,000 inhabitants of Hauts-de-Seine and Seine-Saint-Denis. From the bridge of Sèvres to the Stade de France, to Nanterre and La Défense, the first European business district. The 15 West line will form, with the 15 South and 15 East lines, a large 75-kilometre bypass around the capital, these new connections being primordial in order to reduce congestion of already saturated lines. In fact, RER A, T2 tram and line 1 are sources of dissatisfaction and stress for users. With the work of the CDG Express, these lines are likely to be even more overloaded, as the 900000 daily RER B passengers are expected to fall back on them. The implementation of the West 15 line is planned for 2030, which is already five years longer than the first timetable communicated, and this deadline seems untenable. It would take seventeen years to build the future Grand Paris Express de la Défense station, in the current state of the studies, so it is instead by 2040 that we can count on line 15 Ouest. With the announcement of the arrival of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express at the end of 2025, I wonder about the consequences of such a pharaminous project for the other lines of the western-Parisian section. Indeed, after having indicated its move in relation to the planned location, under the shopping center of the 4 Temps, the company of the Grand Paris now plans to open the line without station in La Défense. However, the original idea of the Grand Paris Express was, I would remind you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, to open up the suburbs, with the aim of making travellers transit outside the Paris walls. I would therefore like the Government to reaffirm the continuity of the line 15 project, within the framework of the Grand Paris Express. I also want to know your opinion on the construction or not of the Paris La Défense station.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u46	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u47	Mrs Hennion, you asked the minister responsible for transport, who asked me to answer you. On 11 February, Ms. Élisabeth Borne signed the concession contract for the Charles-de-Gaulle Express. This decision was taken after the necessary dialogue with local actors and citizens. The Charles-de-Gaulle Express is essential for Paris and Île-de-France. No one can be satisfied with the airport service, which today relies largely on the road, a saturated access. This project, which has suffered for too long from hesitation and renunciation, must be carried out. It is financed by its future customers at 60%, and by airport passengers at 40%. It also provides EUR 500 million for the maintenance of existing links, including EUR 190 million for RER B. In concrete terms, the effort that we are making in Île-de-France and therefore for its suburbs is unprecedented, with 7.6 billion euros inscribed in the CPER, the contract for a State-region plan. These investments involve a lot of work in the coming years: for the RER B master plan, the regeneration of the existing network, the creation of interconnections with the Grand Paris Express or the accessibility projects. When Ms. Borne confirmed that the CDG Express was being carried out, she had also set a red line: that this additional work would not penalize everyday travellers. The project and its timetable for implementation could therefore be adjusted. A report was requested from the regional prefect on the feasibility of all these projects: he concluded on two scenarios, and the Government chose the one for the postponement of the implementation of the CDG Express at the end of 2025. In addition, the Government confirmed in February 2018 that all lines of the Grand Paris Express network, implemented by the Greater Paris company, will be completed by 2030. This obviously concerns lines 15 and 17, which will serve Bois-Colombes and connect the Hauts-de-Seine to Charles-de-Gaulle Airport by rail. You see it, in keeping with its commitments, the Government is determined to act for the transportation of everyday life, both in Île-de-France and throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u48	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u49	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. However, I intend to warn you that at each meeting on the subject, the dates of construction of line 15 West are postponed. I have worked enough on large projects, complex projects, to know that this is not a good sign at all; This raises doubts as to the proper management of this project and the timeliness of its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u50	Mrs Michèle Tabarot spoke of her question, No 777 on noise pollution around Cannes-Mandelieu airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u51	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, my question relates to the air pollution around Cannes-Mandelieu airport: this is a major problem for more than 50,000 people, flying over by the planes landing there. For years, we have been mobilized, with local associations and elected representatives, to demand a better reconciliation between this activity and the quality of life of the residents. We had achieved positive progress, with an annual ceiling on the number of jets allowed, the limitation of the weight of aircraft to 22 tonnes, the classification of the platform in category B or the requirement to train pilots. But many of these advances have been called into question, particularly with privatisation: the number of jets is no longer limited; the authorised tonnage has increased to 35 tonnes; sanctions for non-compliance are almost non-existent. As a result, the nuisances have exploded, at the same time, you will understand, as the anger of the residents. I have regularly alerted the State services and the Government to this situation, but we have long faced a denial of reality. Today, however, we feel that there is an awareness: I was received at the ministry responsible for transport last year to take stock of the situation, and, in the continuity of the work of her predecessor, the sub-prefect of Grasse has just informed us of a future order. The latter should limit the activity of light aviation and sanction flights at too low altitudes. In addition, the study of the north-west trajectory, which has been expected for years, has been announced. These improvements go in the right direction but are insufficient and too slow. We need to go further. The decree referred to must allow to sanction all deviations of trajectory, not only non-compliance with altitude. Moreover, the study of the north-west trajectory will take years; faster solutions are needed to diversify landings. No reflection should be obscured, particularly with regard to the return to a limitation on the number of flights or the development of landings by sea, which had been more numerous before. Finally, why not study a gentle-slope landing procedure, rather than at constant altitude, which would significantly reduce nuisances? All this has become an imperative in the current environment of ecological emergency. We must think about it together, in a dedicated working group, which we wish to create with elected representatives and associations. I am sure that you will welcome this request, to bring out solutions that could become a model for the whole territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u52	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u53	Mrs Tabarot, you drew Mrs Borne's attention to the situation of the residents of Cannes-Mandelieu airport. On 5 June, during a meeting with the elected representatives of the municipalities concerned in the Grasse sub-prefecture, and on 7 June at the occasion of the environmental advisory commission of the Cannes-Mandelieu aerodrome, the local services of the DGAC – Directorate-General for Civil Aviation – presented the progress of their work aimed at improving the environmental situation of the aerodrome. This work begins with alternative north-west trajectories, based on a new, innovative and complex, specific high-precision satellite procedure, which is still under study. Its implementation requires special training of crews and aircraft equipped with the latest satellite track monitoring features. After the Ajaccio aerodrome, the Cannes-Mandelieu aerodrome is the second in France retained by the air navigation services to experiment with this procedure. Netjets Europe has formally committed itself to partnering with DGAC to build this procedure, with an experimental objective in early summer 2020. In addition, lengthy studies of the integration of this procedure into the Nice and Cannes air traffic system will have to be carried out in parallel. Action had also been taken on the issue of sanctions. The decree of 6 December 1995 limiting the conditions of use of the Cannes-Mandelieu aerodrome already makes it possible to punish the shortcomings found. At its meeting on 5 March 2019, the Airport Harm Control Authority imposed two fines in the amount of 22000 euros on an airline which did not comply with the noise limitations on take-off and landing. To go further, as you have suggested, this order will be amended in the coming months to allow for sanctions, on the one hand, for non-compliance with air training restrictions, particularly during the summer months, and, on the other hand, for IFR flights – with instruments – in rear wind, well below the most commonly used published trajectory. As far as safety is concerned, the Cannes-Mandelieu airfield does not present a particular danger to the populations flying over. DGAC services work daily to ensure that a high level of civil aviation safety is maintained. Finally, there is no increase in the number of movements on the platform: traffic has been constant since 2016, with 71920 movements in 2018, compared to 71494 in 2016, including business flights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u54	Mrs Michèle Tabarot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u55	I believe that your information is not very secure, Madam Secretary of State, because traffic has increased significantly: there were some 10,000 movements in 2003, and you yourself are talking about more than 71,000 movements now; you are delighted with the recent stability of their numbers, but you will understand that for the residents, their present number is particularly difficult, heavy. With regard to sanctions, only two were handed down in 2017. Honestly, elected officials and residents feel like they're walking around. I am pleased to have been able to ask this question and I would ask you to set up the working group requested, in order to appease elected representatives and the population, in the presence, of course, of representatives of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u56	Mr François André, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No. 769 on the heritage and real estate policy of the departmental fire and rescue services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u57	Minister to the Minister for Cohesion of the Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, responsible for the city and housing, my question concerns the legal framework of the heritage and real estate policy of the departmental fire and rescue services, the SIDS. Indeed, some of them have entered into partnership agreements with local and regional authorities – in particular the departments, their main financiers – to entrust the latter with the exercise of their heritage competence in the field of construction, management, maintenance and maintenance of buildings. This translates into direct management of the real estate works by the department concerned. This device exists, for example, in Ille-et-Vilaine or in Morbihan. This type of innovative cooperation has many virtues. It strengthens the pooling of human and financial resources, providing SIDS with the expertise, engineering and experience of departments in the construction and maintenance of fire and rescue centres, as well as their financial capacity to raise the loan. This allows economies of scale to be achieved in a constrained budgetary context, particularly for departments, and to focus the capacity of SIDS on their operational activities. However, in accordance with Act No. 96-369 of 3 May 1996 on SIDS, the Regional Chamber of Accounts and the General Inspectorate of the Administration recommend that SIDS regain control of their property policy on two grounds: this competence conferred on SIDS would not be "severable or transferable"; This would undermine the autonomy of the institution and the sincerity of its budget. In view of this, I would like to know the intentions of the Government to guarantee the legal certainty of the agreements for the transfer of the property and property competence of the SIDS – in any case concerning those already existing – either by amending the legislation in force, namely article L. 1424-18 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, or, failing that, by giving them the right to experiment with local and regional authorities as provided for by the constitutional reform of 28 March 2003, or by a future right to differentiation, to which we hold each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u58	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u59	Mr André, I would be grateful if you would excuse the absence of the Minister of the Interior, who instructed me to answer your question. As you said, the SDIS's heritage policy falls within its own sphere of competence, as indicated in the general code of local authorities, which states: "The departmental fire and rescue service builds, acquires or leases the property necessary for its operation. The particular legal nature of SDIS requires maintaining a certain border, if I may say so, between the department and SDIS. The latter, in fact, is not a departmental public institution, since it is created not at the initiative of the department but at the initiative of the law; it is therefore a local public administrative establishment sui generis, subject to a particular regime. It is on this legal basis that the judge of the accounts and the various inspection bodies called into question the financial arrangements established in Ille-et-Vilaine that you described. Why did the judge say that? This was because questions arose about the budgetary sincerity and autonomy of the SIDS. Now it's about how we can move things forward in the direction you're advocating. The existing legislation already provides for many arrangements to ensure a pooling of resources between the department and the SDIS. I will mention a few examples. Departments may enter into service agreements with their public institutions on support functions. The department may be entrusted by the SDIS with responsibility for an operation – it is already possible, but perhaps this possibility needs to be strengthened and, in any case, made known. It is also envisaged that the department may, on behalf of and at the request of the public institution, maintain all its material resources. There is a mechanism, extended four times, which allows the departmental councils, until 31 December 2020, to build, acquire, or renovate, including on the dependencies of their public domain, buildings intended to be made available to the SIDS – we may need to make sure, with the State services, to better implement all these already usable devices or, at least, to better support the departmental councils in their use. The SDIS may also issue a contract for the department to carry out a building or infrastructure work on its behalf, this time under the public order code and not under the general code of local authorities; In this case, the SDIS remains the competent authority to finance the project. For all these reasons, at this stage, the Government is not considering any changes in legislation with a view to entrusting the departments with new tasks in the area of patrimonial competence exercised by SIDS. However, all the possibilities already offered by the law, whether contained in the code of local authorities or in the code of public order, can no doubt be further developed in order to settle cases comparable to the ones you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u60	Mrs Stella Dupont, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 771, on the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u61	The competence of aquatic management and flood prevention, known as "GEMAPI", has become mandatory for EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – with own taxation since 1 January 2018. Although a law passed at the end of 2017 has come to relax and simplify the conditions under which EPCIs can transfer or delegate this competence, many local elected officials remain concerned about this. This is particularly the case in my department, Maine-et-Loire. Indeed, the Loire, a majestic river, and some of its tributaries are endowed with a vast system of protection composed in particular of hundreds of kilometres of dikes, managed in particular by the State. As part of the implementation of the GEMAPI competence, the law provides for all the dikes to be made available to the municipalities and their groups. However, several studies have confirmed that their level of protection is often insufficient in relation to their importance. It is therefore a crucial issue of population security, which entails a very significant responsibility and financial cost for the IBDs. However, the GEMAPI tax does not seem to be the appropriate vehicle to finance this competence. The report by Mr Alain Richard and Mr Dominique Bur already pointed to two difficulties. Firstly, this tax is not used by the EPCIs because, in the absence of a tax transfer, they fear that the tax burden on taxpayers will increase by creating a new tax. The second difficulty is major: the tax faces a geographical disadjustment between the IEPs and the watersheds. In my view, the latter are the only areas of intervention relevant to the exercise of GEMAPI competence in the spirit of the European directives. All the works in the watershed play a role in a given territory: it is a whole. The current regulations create inequity and heterogeneity between CIPOs and taxpayers who are exposed to the same risks in terms of water cycle. The financial issue is central; It requires strong commitments, visibility and national solidarity in order not to distort territorial equity between EPCI and taxpayers. Minister, is there a national framework planned? I am thinking in particular of an equalization mechanism. In order to avoid too strong territorial imbalances, what does the state provide for the extra cost of transferring state-owned dams? Article 3 of the GEMAPI Act provides for the submission of an evaluation report to the Parliament, to present "an assessment of the protection of the national territory against the risks of river flooding and marine submersion" and to study "the possible institutional and financial developments of this management". Would you kindly tell us when this report will be published?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u62	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u63	Mrs Dupont, first of all, I would like to apologize to Mrs Jacqueline Gourault, Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, who asked me to reply. Since 1 January 2018, the GEMAPI competence has become a compulsory competence of the EPCIs with own taxation. The aim of this development is to clarify responsibilities and competencies, and to strengthen the links between water management and flood prevention. You said all that; I can't believe it. You also know that GEMAPI can be financed in two ways: by the unallocated resources of the general budget and/or by an optional fee, capped at the equivalent of 40 euros per inhabitant per year, dedicated exclusively to the taking over of this competence. More than a year after the coming into force of the law, it appears that the acquisition of jurisdiction GEMAPI is gradually structured, despite some territorial disparities, I will return to that. In most cases, the organization of competence is now stabilized and a positive dynamic is in place. The figures show this: as of 1 January 2018, of the 1264 EPCIs with existing own taxation, 428 had introduced a GEMAPI tax, and the total product exceeded 150 million euros in 2018, compared to only 25 million euros in 2017. There are, however, a few territories for which a consensus solution between the actors still needs to be found. This is the case, in particular, of the territories located along the Loire, which you mentioned. In view of this, the Government has assigned a mission to the inspection bodies to assess any consensus options. It is through such a consensus that we can find solutions. This mission is under way. I do not have the exact date of submission of his report, but I undertake to speak to Mrs Jacqueline Gourault about it so that we can provide you with this information. I also stress that funding has been devoted to the state-owned dikes of the Loire and that the EPCI can transfer all or part of the GEMAPI competence to one or more unions covering the same watershed. This answers one of your questions, especially for the water and forest engineer I am.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u64	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor to put his question, No 763, on social housing overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u65	Minister responsible for City and Housing, section 126 of the Finance Act of 30 December 2017 for 2018, removes the housing allowance for home ownership and housing improvement schemes, or APL accession. The planned disappearance of the main tools of the fight against unworthy housing puts several hundred families in a deadlock. In Guadeloupe, Guyana, Martinique and Réunion, there are more than 74,000 unworthy dwellings. In addition to the abrupt cessation of the social housing challenge, the abolition of the accession LPA endangers an entire economic sector. The latter represents a combined turnover of more than €75 million per year for overseas enterprises and employs more than 500 very small craft enterprises in the building industry. In addition to the 300 employees of state-approved operators in all overseas countries, more than 3000 direct jobs are at risk. The totality of professional expertise in the fight against unworthy and unsanitary habitat is likely to disappear. Is it worth pointing out that, overseas, there are 12.5 % of unsanitary housing, compared to only 1.2 % in France as a whole? The abolition of the accession LPA has weakened the capacity to finance the works for the most difficult households who cannot finance the remainder by contracting a loan. However, the remaining costs are all the higher in the overseas countries as the problem of asbestos increases the cost of work by more than 35%. It is no longer to be demonstrated that the improvement of housing and the construction of LES – social living accommodations – are an alternative to the lack of social rental housing. The LES allows a residential course for households aspiring to the property. Families have been waiting for many years, without answers or prospects for the future. When is a mechanism to make up for the long-term abolition of the APL accession, temporarily restored in 2019? This recovery will have only a very limited scope and impact, as it relates only to cases initiated in 2018. What is the status of the report of the mission entrusted by the Government to the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development, which met with all stakeholders in the housing sector in early 2019? Minister, we are waiting for joint, ambitious and courageous political decisions for all families who are forced to abandon their work projects, which condemns them to live in lasting unsanitaryness. What does this Government intend to do in the face of the real risk of extremely high social tensions, especially in the neighbourhoods covered by operations RHI – resorption of unsanitary or dangerous habitat – or marked by unsanitaryness?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u66	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u67	First of all, I would like to thank you for your question, Mr Nilor, because I know that we have in common the will to fight against unhealthy and unworthy habitat, a real scourge in our country, especially in our ultramarine territories. You have recalled that this scourge has unfortunately been raging for years, which justifies the strong measures that we have taken in the ELAN law – the evolution of housing, development and digital technology. I am thinking, for example, of the fight against sleep merchants or the provisions on degraded condominiums. I am also thinking, with regard to the ultramarine territories, of all the work undertaken with Minister Annick Girardin in connection with the Overseas Housing Conference, which we launched four months ago and which is under way. I am also thinking of all the work that has been done with Housing Action, this agency linked to 1% housing: we have jointly launched a voluntary investment plan of 9 billion euros, on which we have decided, together with the social partners, to grant 1.5 billion – I insist on this amount – to the ultramarine territories to carry out a real policy of strengthening the construction of affordable housing and renovations overseas. We need to go even further. You are referring to the case of the accession LPA: it turns out that this device brought a very special benefit, in our ultramarine territories, in the fight against unworthy habitat. On the basis of this, we have reintroduced it by a transitional mechanism, as you have pointed out, quite rightly. I come specifically to the questions you are asking. The report of the CGEDD – the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development – has just been delivered to me. Being accustomed to working transparently, it is with great pleasure that I will convey it to you so that you can give me your opinion on it and so that we can work ahead of the next finance law to see what might be the best accompanying mechanism. We need to find a short-term solution, with a view to a lasting mechanism. We will necessarily have this debate within the framework of the next finance law since the mechanism of the accession LPA, including in its transitional arrangements, ends at the end of the year. It is clear that combating unworthy habitat also requires ownership mechanisms. This is an issue on which we must strengthen our policy, in consultation with you, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u68	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u69	Minister, thank you very much for your very honest, very frank answer. We agree on the diagnosis and the urgency. I would have preferred, however, for you to make a commitment not to provide me with a reply or a document at a later date, but to sustain healthy devices. For lack of better, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u70	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor to put his question, No. 787, concerning the post office of the Courteille district in Alençon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u71	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the announced closure of the post office of the Courteille district in Alençon, Orne. Between the date of the submission of this question and today, the collective mobilization of elected representatives, trade unions and users of our territory has finally allowed the establishment to continue, thus preserving access to the public postal service in a densely populated neighbourhood. Such closure would have once again affected the public from already fragile neighbourhoods. This mobilisation preserves access to public services, in line with the demands made by our citizens for many months. Our desire to maintain this post office was based on the 2017-2019 territorial postal presence contract, which established as a principle the support for the presence of La Poste in the priority districts of the city's policy. The contract also reaffirmed the minimum threshold of 17,000 points of contact spread throughout France; This figure is formally respected but reflects the gradual replacement of post offices by simple postal relays, with much smaller missions. While the mobilization of elected officials and residents of the Courteille district has helped to preserve this post office, we still see the erosion of many public services, which gives the feeling of a territorial mesh that is getting poorer. In addition to the post offices, it is important to mention the SNCF counters at the Alençon station, which will now be closed on Saturdays and Sundays, which will effectively reduce access to an essential proximity service for users who do not use the dematerialised means. We are also wondering about the reshaping of the local network of the Directorate-General for Public Finance, which has just been announced by the Minister for Action and Public Accounts. In these circumstances, we will remain attentive to the fact that no other post office is affected by the maintenance of the Courteille post office – I am thinking in particular of those in the communes of Damigny and Saint-Germain-du-Corbéis – and of the preservation of all public services in the neighbourhood. Minister, can you assure us that no post office closures are envisaged in the whole town of Alençon and its agglomeration?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u72	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u73	Mr Pueyo, you said very well in your question: the mobilisation in Courteille led to the decision not to close the post office this year, which I welcome. But your question is broader in scope and I find it all the more important as you point out the difficulties of access to public services in terms of proximity, in addition to territories that are dear to me – beyond my native origins, I refer to the priority areas of city policy. Because the post office you mention is set up in a priority area, and we know very well that La Poste is often a place of particular importance in these areas, because it welcomes a lot of people. First point: this government has made local access to public services a priority. That is the whole meaning of the remarks made by the President of the Republic a few weeks ago, recalled in the Prime Minister's general policy statement a few days ago. Second point: La Poste is a very particular actor, its operation being governed by agreements with the State but also by the contract of postal presence. The Association des mayores de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité are associated with the preparation of the next one, which will cover the years 2020 to 2022. Be assured that the State will be extremely vigilant about its development. Third point: beyond La Poste, I want to stress the other services of proximity, starting with the future France service houses, announced by the President of the Republic. There will be at least one per canton, with priority given to the most fragile territories, in particular to the priority areas of city policy. They are designed specifically to provide access to community-based public services. They will be the result of projects dating back to the territories, and they will depend on them. They will offer a minimum basket of services, guaranteeing a certain level of quality. The ambitious policy launched by the President of the Republic and being implemented by the Prime Minister and the Government shows, you see, that we fully share the vision that you express and the will that you show for greater proximity in the public services. In this regard, our determination is complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u74	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u75	Minister, thank you for your answer and I take note of your willingness to work together, beyond differences in political sensitivity. I think that one can indeed share the same diagnosis and move forward by being aware that a community service is also important because it accompanies users. Thus, I am thinking of the elderly who have not acquired control of the new communication techniques and who need to be advised, accompanied and sometimes led. That is why local services – La Poste, SNCF and others – seem indispensable to me. If we can move forward together on this path, I would of course be satisfied; You can count on me to be constructive. The question was important because if La Poste made the right decision in maintaining this office, it will be necessary to be vigilant in the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u76	I call Mrs Auconia to speak on her question No 788 on inactive bank accounts and life insurance contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u77	On the occasion of its last annual report, the Court of Auditors returned to the application of the law of 13 June 2014, known as the "Eckert Act", on inactive bank accounts and life insurance contracts in disinherence. The Court made a rather encouraging first observation on the provisions that had been made: "a well-understood reform, an implementation to be strengthened", she wrote. After several weeks of a social movement that has traversed our country and in which the question of purchasing power has proved very central, these funds would be welcome for their recipients. The stock of unliquidated life insurance and bank assets is, of course, eroding slowly, and the high level of unliquidated stocks is expected to continue in the coming years, despite the provisions of the Eckert law and the establishment of the ciclade.caissedesdepots.fr site, on which individuals can claim the sums owed. Above all, another phenomenon of disinherence is that of supplementary pensions. The Eckert Act applies only to futures contracts, while supplementary pensions are termless contracts. As a result, the Court of Auditors made recommendations: optimizing the functionality of the ciclade.caissedesdepots.fr website; the preparation of legislative developments to specify the products included in the Eckert Act; a mandatory annual reporting of banking institutions to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority; the definition of how the Eckert Act applies to supplementary pension contracts. Therefore, Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, my question is as follows: Does the Government intend to follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors in order to improve the effectiveness of the Eckert Act, the aim of which is to return these funds to their legitimate recipients?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u78	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u79	Mrs Auconie, the Court of Auditors' annual public report for 2019 provides an overall positive assessment of the scheme implemented by the Eckert law, which has enabled us to better understand the stock of assets in dispossess and to encourage the reactivation of life insurance accounts and contracts. It also implements a transparent process for the transfer of inactive accounts and contracts to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, which is responsible for the construction and management of a platform to facilitate the return of such amounts to their holders and beneficiaries. With regard to the recommendations for improving the functionality and processing processes of the ciclade platform, it is for the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to make such developments as it deems necessary. Since its inception, the CDC has focused on enhancing its functionality and simplifying its records management and training processes. Tangible progress has already been made in terms of the delays in the return of the money affected by the disinherence, which have been considerably reduced, even as the number of cases investigated has increased sharply. With regard to legislative developments to clarify the products included in the scope of the Act of 13 June 2014 or to extend this scope to new products such as supplementary pension contracts, in-depth studies are still needed in view of the complexity of the products concerned, in order to better assess the impact of such measures. In its Articles 71 and 72, the PACTE Act – on the growth and transformation of enterprises – has already provided for measures to improve the treatment of the disinherence of life insurance and retirement savings contracts, in order to draw the first consequences of the Court of Auditors' report. Furthermore, the proposal to create an annual reporting obligation for banks on their inactive accounts stocks to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority does not currently appear to be useful. Indeed, banks must already publish in an annual report or on another durable document, easily accessible, the number of inactive accounts opened in their books and the total amount of deposits and assets entered in those accounts, as provided for in Article R. 312-21 of the Monetary and Financial Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u80	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u81	Minister, I heard your answer, which reassured me. Like you, I can see how much the Eckert Act has made real progress in reassigning these funds to their recipients. I welcome the initiative taken at the time by Christian Eckert, then Secretary of State. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors confirms that it is possible to do much better. If the number of bank accounts in dispossessed is eroded, this trend is too slow to his liking. There is also the question of supplementary pensions, which are covered by no-term contracts for which there is no provision for supervision. It would seem, even if this remains to be verified, that they amount to several billion euros. These funds are in the funds of pension insurance companies, while they would certainly be more useful in the bank accounts of those who should be the beneficiaries. At a time when purchasing power is a major concern for many of our fellow citizens in the territories, improving the management of those accounts in disrepair would be a good signal. I thank you, Minister, for the information you will be able to convey on this subject to the minister concerned, so that we can move forward much faster on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u82	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor to raise her question, No 772, on the market for the supply of liquefied petroleum gas and on consumer protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u83	In France, nearly 700000 households use a propane tank. These 700000 households are therefore dependent on this heating solution, which is as polluting as oil. For several months, we have been working with the Government to enable them to benefit from the same conversion aid as for oil tanks, which is essential from the point of view of the ecological transition. We've got some progress. However, much remains to be done to regulate the market for the supply of liquefied petroleum gas – LPG – and to protect consumers. Despite significant advances over the past five years in the transparency of contracts offered by distributors, there are still many rigidities in their contractual relations with consumers. In a notice issued in 2014, the Autorité de la concurrence noted the opacity of these contractual relationships, stressing the captive nature of the contracts between the two parties, as consumers are dependent on a single supplier for the installation of the tank, its maintenance and propane supply. The Autorité de la concurrence has also noted the weakness of information on the evolution of supply prices, again to the detriment of the consumer, who, because of the captive nature of the contract linking him to the supplier and his lack of knowledge of market developments, rarely takes the risk of turning to another supplier. The law of 17 March 2014 on consumption, known as the Hamon law, has enabled positive developments in consumer information. It also limited the maximum duration of contracts to five years. However, some elements have not changed: the contracts always match installation, supply and maintenance; termination clauses remain complex; the breach of contract is often very expensive. For those 700000 households that depend on propane and most often live in rural areas – you know my commitment to this – there are other levers that would help protect them more. Minister, what are the possible measures to amplify the effects of the 2014 law on the propane market, with a view to energizing this market, ensuring transparency for consumers and reducing the French energy bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u84	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u85	Madam Member, I am aware of your commitment to both the issue of ecological transition and land-related issues. As you pointed out, a number of the households living in rural areas are dependent, sometimes totally, on this heating system. Given its specific characteristics, the market for the supply of LPG is highly regulated, with a view to protecting consumers. The law of 17 March 2014, you recalled, in particular, limited the duration of supply contracts to five years. A decree signed by Bruno Le Maire on 6 November 2017 imposes a uniform presentation of offers, so that they can be compared more easily by consumers and that they can better compete. Moreover, this market is subject to very regular checks by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention: shortcomings identified in a national survey conducted in 2018 have given rise to contentious follow-up. In addition, the main proposals made by the Autorité de la concurrence in its opinion of 14 January 2014 have been implemented. However, the proposal to impose on suppliers the sale of the tank to consumers wishing to acquire it, with the aim of fluidizing the market, was not accepted, as it raises a legal difficulty with regard to ownership rights. Finally, important safety issues are linked to this market, due to the use of equipment operating with high pressure levels. The Government is not opposed to further reflection on possible initiatives to improve the functioning of the LPG market, particularly for first-time contractors. The Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition will have to be involved, particularly in view of the security issues I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u86	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u87	This is indeed a collective and cross-cutting work involving several ministries. I take it from your answer that we can go towards decoupling offers. I had tabled an amendment to that effect on the energy and climate bill, but it was declared inadmissible, given the scope of the text. This will therefore need to be the subject of a bill, which I will, of course, work with the Government. Work will also have to be done to strengthen consumer support and improve the readability of contracts. In this regard, work needs to be done with the DGCCRF in order to go beyond what has already been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u88	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No 785, concerning Arjowiggins and other companies in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u89	My question is addressed to the Minister of Economy and Finance and deals, on the one hand, with the circumstances under which Arjowiggins has closed several sites in the departments of Sarthe, Loir-et-Cher and Seine-et-Marne and, on the other hand, with possible threats to other French industrial companies located in Sarthe, particularly in the metropolis of Le Mans. Arjowiggins was, until recently, one of the first paper companies in Europe. It was a subsidiary of the Sequana Group, whose State was the reference shareholder through the public investment bank, Bpifrance. In total, nearly EUR 200 million had been disbursed in recent years in the form of investments or loans. Therefore, the closure of several sites remains incomprehensible. Management had decided to sell the industry in favour of a multidistribution activity. If the price of the raw material, the pulp, has risen sharply in recent months – sometimes with jumps of 30% – this risk should have been covered. It is therefore the group's very strategy that needs to be questioned. A newspaper that appeared on Wednesday informed us that in 2017, a subsidiary had been sold to a group, which no more or less emptied the company from its assets and put it into liquidation. Other companies and industrial sites in the Sarthe region, particularly in the capital city, particularly in the areas of connectivity, aeronautics and defence, are now apparently receiving attention from funds or companies which may wish to buy them in order to better separate themselves from them after selling the assets and maintaining the technologies and ownership attached to them. My question is simple and has two parts: in the case of Arjowiggins, what was the use of the EUR 180 million injected into the company, knowing that there were no significant investments to modernise the production tool? With regard to other sensitive sites, does the State intend to deploy a strategy that protects companies, their physical and intangible assets, their qualified collaborators and, thus, the industrial tool itself? Beyond a policy response, I would like the necessary measures to be taken. The commitments made by buyers must be respected and real means given to accompany workers and employees, which are now left behind due to short-term strategies and the lack of effective guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u90	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u91	Madam Member, thank you for your question. I know you're very committed to this case that affects the Sarthe, but also the Loir-et-Cher department, which I know well. In response to the first part of your reply, the financial support granted by the State and Bpifrance since 2012, which is estimated at EUR 200 million, was used only to cover the operating losses of Arjowiggins sites, which have been in deficit for several years. Its sole purpose was to promote in-beneficial divestitures. These divestitures could have been possible last autumn, since extensive negotiations had been carried out, as you know, with a Belgian investor. However, an exceptional rise in the price of pulp, which you recalled, has greatly influenced the profitability of the site and led to the failure of negotiations as well as the initiation of a judicial reorganization procedure. The mobilization of the State remained total during the duration of this procedure: not only did we ensure that the operation could continue financially, but Bercy's services were constantly mobilized to seek the maximum number of candidates for the takeover of the sites concerned. It was this substantive work as well as the promises of public financial support from the State and the region that made it possible to develop the offer of Swedish candidate Lessebo, which ultimately proved impecunious. The support for this offer was complete, since the State had committed itself, together with the regions Pays de la Loire and Centre-Val de Loire, to participate in any recovery project amounting to 50% of the total need for financing, i.e. the maximum amount authorised by the rules of EU state aid law. An additional participation by another public actor, beginning with Bpifrance, which you mentioned, would have contravened these rules and posed a major risk to the recovery project. It is therefore because of the absence of a private financer, not a public financer, that the process of taking over the lying paper site failed. I confirm that the State is always prepared to provide financial support to a possible private contractor who would demonstrate himself for the takeover of some of the assets of the Bessé-sur-Braye site, including in this liquidation situation. Let me turn to the second part of your question. All the light will be shed on the financial flows between the various subsidiaries of the Sequana group during the suspicious period. This information was received by the procedural bodies, administrators and judicial representatives. In addition, I confirm that the Monetary and Financial Code provides for a procedure for prior authorisation of foreign investments for the acquisition of sites or companies with a particular sensitivity due to their scientific or technical potential, in sectors that are limitedly listed, related to national defence or likely to involve public order and activities essential to the protection of the country's interests. At the end of this procedure, the Minister responsible for the economy may or may not authorize the transaction, depending on whether the investor undertakes to ensure that the interests of the country are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u92	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u93	Thank you, Minister, for these elements and for the Government's commitment to this issue. I think it is not closed and we will have to continue our efforts. That has been said and you have recalled, Minister: in exceptional circumstances, an exceptional response. We really need to find the solutions that will allow us to take over, at least partially, the Bessé-sur-Braye site. I would also like to draw attention to other companies, in particular Souriau, in the aeronautics sector. A sale is envisaged, which could put the company in difficulty and harm the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u94	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No 783, on public security in Toulouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u95	My question is for the Minister of the Interior. The daily security police was a major commitment of the President of the Republic and our majority. Launched by Mr Castaner's predecessor on 8 February 2018, this tailor-made policy aims to put the service of the citizen at the heart of the action of the security forces. This scheme was implemented in the Republican reconquest district of Mirail in Toulouse. Adapting to the expectations of the population and the needs of the territory, it has proved its effectiveness, as it has achieved visible results on the ground in just a few months. This republican reconquest has helped to combat insecurity, trafficking and radicalisation by strengthening the presence of our law enforcement forces, as close as possible to our fellow citizens. However, this arrangement had a perverse effect in Toulouse, since it led to an intensification of traffic in other areas, such as the Izards-Trois Cicus and Borderouge. Several fatal shootings related to these traffickings have taken place in recent months in these two neighbourhoods, which are developing and whose population is growing significantly. During the last shooting, on May 4, that is, just over a month ago, a 19-year-old man was shot dead under the windows of the family home. The situation is no longer tenable for our fellow citizens, and we must collectively redouble our efforts to combat this crime, drug trafficking and the circulation of weapons. If these phenomena succeed in developing, it is in particular because of a shortage of personnel: our law enforcement agencies do not have the human resources necessary to ensure the security of everyone. I am particularly interested in the situation in these two areas of my constituency. I hope that the good of living together and the social mix will continue there. I make myself the spokesperson of their inhabitants, who ask me every week to try to find a lasting solution, so that all can regain a certain serenity. On 18 June, I also appeal: can the Government make a commitment to implement the daily security police in the Izards-Trois Cocus and Borderouge neighbourhoods, in order to restore the republican order there?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u96	Thank you for this 18 June call, my dear colleague. The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u97	Mr President, I thank you for this question which concerns a territory which you know well, for being a deputy to the mayor, and which you represent in Parliament today. The fight against drug trafficking is one of the priorities of the work of the daily security police – PSQ – and of the republican reconquest districts – QRR – such as Mirail, which benefit from additional staff, because they are aware of particular problems. In 2018, the strength of the Toulouse police district was increased by 30 officers. The PSQ is deployed in the Izards-Trois Cocus and Borderouge districts. Since May 2019, eight operational partnership groups – GPO – have been set up in Toulouse, including one in the Maurine district. Within the framework of this GPO, will work in partnership national and municipal police, elected local, donors and associations of inhabitants. This mobilization is beginning to bear fruit: in these neighbourhoods, crime has decreased by 12% in the first four months of 2019. The problems related to drug trafficking, which you pointed out, are perfectly identified, and there is nothing to link the delinquent activity in these neighbourhoods to the creation of a QRR at Mirail: in 2013 and 2014, several clashes between rival gangs had already caused deaths in the Izards and Grand Mirail neighbourhoods. Above all, results have been achieved: in the first five months of 2019, for example, public safety seized 10 kilograms of cannabis; In February 2019, the judicial police arrested three people carrying 3.5 kilograms of cocaine in the Bagatelle and Borderouge neighbourhoods; In April 2019, as part of the investigation into the double assassination attempt of 17 March 2019 in the Izards, three individuals were imprisoned. The Izards-Trois Cocus and Borderouge neighbourhoods benefit from the enhanced pilotage system set up as part of the fight against drug trafficking. Since June 2018, the city has had an operational narcotics intelligence unit, which facilitates several ongoing investigations, notably in the Izard-Trois Cocus sector. His work also contributed to the arrest of the alleged perpetrator of an attempted homicide and the seizure of four weapons and numerous ammunition. This mobilization will increase in power, thanks to the plan to combat drug trafficking, desired by the President of the Republic, on which the services of the Ministry of the Interior are actively working.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u98	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u99	Thank you, Minister, for the new developments that you have brought to our attention. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that maintaining the Republic in the neighbourhoods where it is still present is just as important as the republican reconquest. Let's not let these neighborhoods sink into the dark face!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u100	I call Mr Sebastien Nadot to speak on his question, No. 791, on the consideration of environmental and digital issues in constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u101	In these times of constitutional reform and referendum, I would first like to say that in Toulouse, we love freedom. It is true throughout the Southwest, whether on my lands in Lauragais, in Gers, in Tarn or in Aveyron. I convey to you a very strong concern, that of teachers gassed in front of the rectorate or the prefecture, that of public finance agents hindered in their right to protest, that of medical personnel who are subjected to violence in emergencies. Violence has become a habit, on both sides, during the Toulouse gatherings of yellow vests; It repeats every Saturday afternoon. The installation of this violence, which becomes the norm, raises real concern and raises a question about human relations in the context of constitutional reform. My question is for Mrs. Keeper of Seals. I would like to ask him about two other aspects that I believe are fundamental to the debate on the Constitution. If we are doing a constitutional reform, it is good to adapt to the changes in society and to the new challenges, first and foremost the environmental challenge and the digital challenge that have emerged recently. The Environmental Charter was an important milestone in 2005, but it does not incorporate the environmental emergency. There are no plans to prevent and punish the irreversible destruction of an ecosystem. This is the first area where acute questions arise. The second is digital, the Constitution of which says absolutely nothing. There is no general principle on digital issues, whereas the role of the Constitution is to facilitate living together and to protect individuals. Is it planned to integrate the new and fundamental issues of ecology and digital technology into the next constitutional reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u102	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u103	Mr Nadot, there is not, on the one hand, the defenders of freedom, which is also geographically identified, and, on the other hand, its enemies. We are all here, the Government in particular, committed to the Republic and to fundamental rights. Your question refers to the conception that one can have of the fundamental law and its function. In essence, a constitution is used to organize public authorities and their relations. This also guarantees fundamental rights. Finally, for a people, it is a means of asserting values or setting common goals. The two topics that you address are obviously essential in the world that is ours. With regard to climate, the Government intends to include in the draft constitutional law, which will shortly be discussed in the Council of Ministers, the elements adopted by the National Assembly to include them in article 1 of the Constitution: "The Republic acts for the preservation of the environment and biological diversity and against climate change. » By this solemn proclamation, the Constitution would enshrine these elements as the founding principles of our Republic. It may be considered that their inclusion in the basic law will give them special weight when the courts, in particular the Constitutional Council, have to balance several constitutional principles. It would also be a strong signal, addressed beyond our borders, of our country's commitment to the future of the planet. With regard to data protection, discussions had taken place in 2018 on the adoption of a digital charter. A working group of the National Assembly and the Senate has led to very useful reflections on this subject, but they have not been able to reach a consensus on the principles to be enshrined in the Constitution. The complexity of the matter and its rapid evolution make the exercise difficult by nature. However, we are not legally deprived on these matters. The keeper of the seals had the honour of presenting before you the text which became the law of 20 June 2018 relating to the protection of personal data. European law, with the general regulation on data protection, offers a high level of protection to our citizens, and that is good. In addition, we have completely recast the law of 6 January 1978 on information technology, files and freedoms in order to adapt it to the European legal framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u104	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u105	A precision concerning geography: in our home, it is well known, "even the memois love castagna". If we particularly condemn violence in Toulouse, it is because there is a very important problem in this area; Jean-Luc Lagleize mentioned it just before me. If the environmental issue is incorporated into the Constitution in the near future, I would be delighted to do so. However, what will be the level of constraint? What would people, organizations or businesses be exposed to irreversibly damaging the environment? I regret that digital is left out on the grounds that it raises complex issues and that matter is rapidly evolving. The digital or virtual personality of everyone has become a very important issue. I invite you to start a reflection, in which I will be very willing to participate, particularly on the issue of interoperability. Large groups have built some kind of cages, which makes it impossible to move from one system to another by keeping its social partners. Now, if you change your bakery, you lose your friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u106	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u107	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u108	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor to put her question, No 766, on employment in the horse-traffic sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u109	My question is for the Minister of Labour. It deals with the legal uncertainty in which companies organising horse racing, as well as providers employing employees in racetracks, find themselves for short and repeated periods of time. The organisation of these races requires the presence of qualified personnel, such as judges approved by the Ministry of the Interior to monitor the regularity of the tests and veterinarians in charge of the anti-doping control, as well as staff ensuring the taking of bets and the reception of the public. In view of the particular nature of this activity, it is customary for racing companies to use short-term employment contracts for employees responsible for carrying out these tasks. They are mobilised very punctually or very little – on average between five and fifty days a year, depending on the category of employment concerned – at varying dates, for a weekly period of between five and seven and a half hours, which clearly does not allow them to offer an indefinite contract. Following the adoption of the law of 12 July 1990, a decree specified the sectors of activity authorized to use fixed-term contracts – CSD – of use. However, the jobs I have just mentioned are not part of it, whereas the Ministers of Labour in office in 1991 and 1992, Mr Soison and Mrs Aubry, confirmed in letters or written replies published in the Official Journal that the contracts concluded for the activities of pari-mutuel pari-mutuel and the organization of horse races in the racetracks corresponded well to the usual CDDs. In addition, the jobs concerned meet the seven characteristics defined by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs in its 2015 report on the evaluation of the use CSD. Unfortunately, several courts have held that the contracts concerned should be re-qualified as CDI, in the absence of an express mention of horse racing in article D. 1242-1 of the Labour Code, which defines the beneficiaries of the CDDs of use. The horse racing industry, already very weakened by financial difficulties, cannot bear the risk of requalification in CDI of all employment contracts concluded. I would therefore like to know what legal form the Minister of Labour advocates for such jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u110	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my delay. Please also excuse the absence of Ms. Pénicaud, who was busy this morning with the announcement of the unemployment insurance reform. She asked me to answer on her behalf. As you know, Mrs Leguille-Balloy, the CDD of use is a case of recourse to the fixed-term contract. In certain sectors of activity defined either by regulation or by extended collective agreement or collective agreement, it is a constant practice not to use the open-ended employment contract because of the nature of the activity carried out and the intrinsically temporary nature of the jobs concerned. The use of the CDD of use thus derogates from the principle that the contract of indefinite duration is the normal and general form of the employment relationship. It must meet specific and immediate needs, for specific posts and for a limited period of time. It cannot have the effect of providing long-term employment linked to the normal and permanent activity of the undertaking. These rules are an essential guarantee, in order to prevent the deterioration of the employment of wage-earners. When the judge re-qualifies a CDD as a CDI, he does not question the employment as such, but the employment relationship uniting the same employee, who is constantly re-employed under the CDD of use, with a particular employer. In such cases, the employment relationship is clearly not temporary, but rather reflects long-term needs, which an employee in CDI would normally have to satisfy. The aim of the legislation is to limit this type of contract to strictly defined needs. In order to avoid the risk of requalification in CDI, it is necessary to check that the main activity of the undertaking is included in the list laid down in Article D. 1242-1 of the Labour Code, which has been supplemented by certain collective agreements and extended collective agreements. According to the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, the collection and management of betting in racetracks on behalf of horse racing companies does not relate to any of the sectors listed in the decree. This is reflected in a decision of the Social Chamber of the Court of Cassation dated 24 June 2003. Consequently, it is preferable that the conditions of use and the framework for the use of the usual CSD to fill the jobs in question should be defined as a matter of priority by collective bargaining. It is therefore up to the social partners of the hippodromes and training centres branch of Île-de-France, Cabourg, Caen, Chantilly and Deauville to define the framework for the use of the short contract, in order to provide a response adapted to the temporary labour needs of the sector, while offering guarantees adapted to the employees. As such, the Ordinance of 22 September 2017 on the predictability and security of labour relations allows certain rules specific to CSDs to be developed by extended branch agreement in order to take account of the configurations of the sector concerned. The rules on the total duration of the contract – including renewals – and the maximum number of possible renewals of the contract are thus open for negotiation. This openness to negotiation is the relevant answer to the problem that you raised, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u112	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u113	Mr Secretary of State, you are certainly aware of the short-term difficulties facing the sector. At present, it is all the more difficult to negotiate because some employees have already obtained the requalification of their contract. After the adoption of the Act of 12 July 1990 and the above-mentioned Decree, two ministers expressly specified that one-time jobs in racetracks were part of the contracts of use, even if they did not amend the Decree accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u114	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u115	You mentioned the employees who took the bets. Others are involved, including veterinarians and judges, who are doing very specific work. Also used elsewhere, they will not enter into this discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u116	Mr Loïc Dombreval has the floor to put his question, No. 773, on radon testing in tourist caves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u117	My question is for the Minister of Labour. Since 2008, the Labour Code has imposed a measure of radon in tourist caves. The dose threshold and the current dose coefficient are 400 becquerels and 1.4, respectively. These standards do not interfere, or very little, with the management of personnel, who stay between 350 and 500 hours a year in these caves. However, the French regulatory texts, adopted in 2018 to transpose Euratom Directive 2013/59 of 5 December 2013, lower the dose threshold to 300 becquerels and raise the dose coefficient to 6 for people working in caves. Curiously, the other underground spaces remain subject to a coefficient of 3. Compliance with these new standards will result in a reduction in the time spent by staff in the cavities by a factor of 4 on some farms. This could result in a decrease in turnover and an increase in fixed costs, due to shorter opening periods or an increase in the number of workstations. I met the professionals of the only two tourist caves in the Alpes-Maritimes department, which are located in my constituency, in Saint-Vallier-de-Thiey and Saint-Cézaire-sur-Siagne. If they are fully conscious – and it's happy! – the risk factor inherent in radon, which is natural gas, they wonder, however, that the coefficient of 6 is applied exclusively to caves, even though they benefit from natural ventilation caused by the difference in temperature between the basement and the outside, which allows to dissipate radon emanations. In view of these observations, should the coefficient of 3 to which all the other basements are subjected not be applied to the caves?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u118	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u119	Mr Dombreval, you have drawn the attention of the Minister of Labour to the consequences of the regulatory amendments on radon measurement for the activity of people working in tourist caves. I would like to recall the evolution of the provisions we are talking about this morning. Decree No 2018/437 of 4 June 2018 on the protection of workers from the risks arising from ionizing radiation transposed the Euratom Directive of 5 December 2013, which laid down the basic standards in this field. It actually reduced the reference level of radon gas concentration in air to 300 becquerels per cubic metre, initially set at 400 becquerels per cubic metre. In addition, the Decree supplemented the measures for the enhanced protection of workers who may be exposed to this gas by introducing two new provisions. This is, on the one hand, the delimitation of regulated access zones, known as radon zones, by a specific signal, where the concentration of radon in the air is likely to produce an annual radiation dose greater than 6 millisieverts, and, on the other hand, the setting up of an individual monitoring of the exposure of workers likely to receive a dose greater than 6 millisieverts per year. In practice, exposure to such a level of radiation remains exceptional. The relationship between the concentration of radon gas in air, expressed in becquerels per cubic metre, and the dose received by the worker as a result of exposure to radon gas, expressed in millisieverts, is established by dose coefficients, defined by the International Commission for Radiological Protection – ICRP – based on exposure conditions. The coefficients recommended by the ICRP – not at the French level, but at the international level – are taken up by the Member States in their regulations. In France, they were incorporated into national law by the Decree of 1 September 2003 laying down the procedures for calculating effective doses and equivalent doses resulting from the exposure of persons to ionizing radiation. If the reference level of the concentration of radon gas in the air has been lowered by 25%, the new provisions on the delimitation of zones and the radiological monitoring of workers allow operators of underground caves to continue to operate them, while ensuring traceability of the doses received by the workers affected. In its publication No.137, published in January 2018, the ICRP issued new recommendations for dose coefficients, which are more stringent for certain exposure situations. The European Commission has not yet commented on the need to follow them or not. Without waiting for it to take a position, the Directorate-General for Labour, the Directorate-General for Health and the Directorate-General for Risk Prevention jointly referred the matter to the Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety with a view to assessing the possible consequences of the transcription of the new coefficients and their application in national regulations. This is the rule of law; This is the position of the Government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u120	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to put his question, No 760, on the unemployment insurance agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u121	On 20 February, employers and trade unions did not reach agreement on the unemployment insurance agreement. This failure has paved the way for the Government to take over the case. The future of unemployment insurance will therefore be defined by decree by the executive. On February 26, the Minister of Labour announced that she would take the opportunity. I quote: "Our whole project is to move towards a more flexible and open labour market." This statement shows that the failure of the negotiation was orchestrated by a dominant technocracy, by means of a scoping letter: the nature of the savings required to the detriment of the beneficiaries alone could not be accepted by the unions; the penalisation of short contracts could not be done by the employer. The social partners are held responsible for the failure, and the Labour Code removes them from the case for the benefit of the executive. Well done! Between Christmas and New Year's Eve, Ms.Penicaud took the decrees for the application of the law for the freedom to choose her professional future, whose title – in governmental novlangue – is a perfect antiphrase. Pôle emploi becomes a judge and a party: the agency can now decide alone on the sanctions applied to job seekers, such as the abolition of allowances; It proposes employment, defines the reasonableness of employment and applies the penalty in case of refusal. This model of law bears a name: arbitrariness. True to its ordo-liberal logic, the Minister of Labour transforms work into employment, employment into a job, the unemployed into guilty of his situation, the public employment service into a repressive tool. The intention was in the law, its implementation in the decree. We call on him to be transparent in exposing his projects to national representation and the people. The vagueness maintained by the presidential majority also concerns the professionals of the show. Although they had achieved unanimous agreement on Annexes VIII and X to the Convention, they would like to know the ins and outs of the text as a whole. Do not confront them to wait until the minister has prepared in complete discretion decrees that will come out during the summer holidays, when the Avignon festival will no longer be a political issue! Do you not think, reasonably, that we should return to the negotiating table rather than leave the executive with the power to decide on the next convention?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u122	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u123	Be convinced of this, Member: the Government has no vagueness and has shown a willingness for dialogue and transparency throughout the process of reform of unemployment insurance, which it presented this morning with the main provisions. Let me begin by reminding you that the framework for reform has been the subject of extensive parliamentary discussions in the context of the review of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. Secondly, the transmission of the scoping document to the social partners last September was preceded by a phase of consultation aimed at drawing up a diagnosis shared with all of them. Finally, following the failure of the negotiations last February – as you recalled – the Minister of Labour began a thorough and intensive consultation phase in the form of a series of bilateral exchanges with all the actors concerned. The announcement today by the Prime Minister and by Mrs Pénicaud of the detailed content of the reform is the result of this process, of these various works and exchanges. As the Prime Minister announced last week in his policy statement, the reform is intended to transform our unemployment insurance system in depth with four main objectives: to end the abuse of short contracts – you will probably join us on this point; ensure that the recovery of employment is always more interesting than the continuation of unemployment; review the rules for compensation of employees who receive the highest wages; Finally, to strengthen the support of jobseekers. These measures constitute a coherent set of measures to promote sustainable employment and to combat insecurity. In addition, the December 2018 decree you mentioned, relating to the monitoring of job search, had three objectives: to further customize the reasonable job offer in order to better take account of individual situations; simplify the sanction procedure to make sanctions more credible; Review the sanctions scale to make it fairer. The idea was, on the one hand, to ensure that the balance of rights and duties was respected, and, on the other hand, to help and remobilize job seekers who were no longer actively seeking employment because they were discouraged, did not use the right method or were not sufficiently accompanied. It is therefore not a question of making jobseekers guilty, but of bringing them back on the job path.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u124	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u125	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State, although you did not answer me about the special regime for intermittents. However, under the guise of harmonising the unemployment insurance system, all those in intermittent jobs – which do not only exist in the entertainment sector – will suffer a sharp devalorisation of their purchasing power, since they will not be able to claim any unemployment benefit or almost any unemployment benefit. In addition, you do not guarantee us continuity in relation to the April 2016 agreement – but I had already asked Mrs Nyssen and Mr Riester this question before addressing you today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u126	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor to put his question, No. 789, on the inclusion of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u127	While support by school assistants is considered insufficient – yesterday's newspaper La Voix du Nord devoted a new article to the phenomenon – the Government is calling for an expression of interest in the identification of "100% inclusive territories", which legitimately worries persons with disabilities and families with children with disabilities. Indeed, the idea of "100% inclusive territories" evokes a form of standardization of the accompaniment of different people. However, as the associations that claim a certain expertise recall, inclusion is not decreed: it is impulsive, accompanied. Moreover, it can only be considered in a very gradual manner, given the public concerned. This strategic vision of a 100% inclusive society is supported by the report released in April 2019 by the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities entitled "Disability Policy: For an Inclusive Society". The Secretary of State stated that "France has long made the choice to isolate persons with disabilities for the sake of protection, a good feeling that has gradually turned into a comfortable separation". And she overbids by asking: "Would we have passed from the noble plan to protect the other to the less noble one to protect us from the other? » These remarks make the parents' associations guilty of taking responsibility for a fragile population more than sixty years ago by claiming national solidarity, which was previously excluded from this population. The members of these associations have structured institutional responses to enable the children and adults concerned to have access to a form of socialization, whereas Jules Ferry's compulsory public school did not want to receive them. These solutions, the founders of the associations began to implement them using their own money. In a note from February 2018, the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities recalls that the construction of a truly inclusive society implies "a rapid and large-scale shift in favour of specialized support, if necessary, in the ordinary environment". For families, the expression is contradictory of a necessary reasoned anticipation that promotes tailor-made accompaniment for people with mental disabilities, as opposed to a standardized system. While the High Council for the Family, Children and Age recalled, in a report adopted on 5 July 2018, the major milestone of the Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities, Ms Cluzel called it into question. Also in her report "Disability policy: for an inclusive society", she stated that the systematic use of the law was not working and that the results of the 2005 one were, 15 years after its promulgation, half-tinted. The assertion is all the more paradoxical as the associations relied on the Secretary of State to enforce this law. In addition, reducing the inclusive shift to closure of social and medico-social institutions, based on the model of some countries, shows that the consequences of such a policy orientation have not been measured. The first results in these countries were so disastrous that many of them subsequently reopened the institutions. In her report, the Secretary of State also claims that one of the causes of the exclusion of persons with disabilities by our society was its adherence to certain cultural, economic and political dogmas. A provision introduced by the Senate in the bill for a school of trust, which may not be included in the final text, attests to the fact that society remains normative and favours a utilitarian vision of education, supposed to be profitable, at the risk of discriminating against children with mental disabilities. On 21 May 2019, the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the school inclusion of children with disabilities focused on the journey of children with neurodevelopment disorders, in particular attention deficit disorders and autistic spectrum disorders. The rapporteur then protested against national education, which had not been able to provide the committee with figures on school inclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u128	My dear colleague, you must give the Secretary of State time to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u129	I come to my conclusion. The associations point out that social inclusion does not depend solely on the degree of autonomy of the different person and his or her ability to self-determine. Is that also the opinion of the Government? How can it address the legitimate concerns of families and associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u130	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u131	There would be a lot to answer, honourable Member, to such a long and rich statement: I will not be able to say everything in fifty seconds. Perhaps you know this: as a Member of Parliament, a few months ago, I was particularly invested in these issues; I cannot therefore remain insensitive or indifferent to your intervention. There is no stigma or guilt in the Government's inclusive policy. What is at stake is the ability of our society to accommodate different people within it. This is the whole meaning of the term "person with disabilities": it is not a question of being politically correct, but rather of meaning that it is the environment that is likely to place the person in this situation, and that it is therefore up to him to evolve to accompany him – I will come back to this notion – within the framework of the inclusive project. In short, it is not for people with disabilities to adapt, to comply with the standard...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u132	We have to keep the schedule, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u133	It's a little difficult to answer in these circumstances, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u134	Just a few more seconds, then.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u135	The challenge, I said, is not to ask people with disabilities to adapt, but to ensure respect for their uniqueness and not to exclude them. This is the whole meaning of the public service of inclusive school, to which you alluded: to guarantee school-based solutions adapted to children with special needs, so that they can do their school start as well as others. The Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities visited a teaching unit in Autism Elementary last week. In these structures installed within schools, children – parents say so themselves – regain serenity; they borrow at their own pace the gateways with the reference classes; They're starting to learn and tell their day. I will conclude by referring to the 100% inclusive territories – I am sorry for the dispassionate nature of my remarks, but it is the length of your question that limits the duration of my answer and prevents me from being exhaustive. I will simply mention one of the main expectations of the call for expression of interest: "No matter where the person lives, the social bond is preserved and his access to the common law, because he is accompanied, is guaranteed there. I stress the notion of accompaniment: we want to make things possible by providing all the necessary serenity and security – I know, believe me, how essential they are in a journey of life. Thirty territories were involved in the process. Naturally, the transition must also be accompanied: with regard to inclusive schools, for example, we have set up a national follow-up committee that will be able to talk to parents, talk to them about what works well or less well, and adjust what needs to be done if necessary. This fruitful dialogue and unity, we, the state, associations and communities, owe them to our fellow citizens with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u136	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to her question No. 765 concerning the entry into service of light sanitary vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u137	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the ambulance service plays a central role in the chain of care: it provides both emergency missions, in relation to the UAS – an emergency medical aid service –, missions to monitor patients during their transport and missions to accompany patients with little or no autonomy. I was seized by a couple in my constituency who co-hosted an ambulance company of their difficulties in obtaining authorization for the commissioning of light sanitary vehicles – VSL – requested from the services of the regional health agency – ARS – of Île-de-France. It should be noted that the ARS d'Île-de-France has delegated the granting of authorizations to a service located in Seine-Saint-Denis, whereas the company in question is located in Val-d'Oise. In a letter dated 24 October 2018 which the co-owners have brought to my knowledge, the service located in Seine-Saint-Denis explains that the absence of a procedure for revising departmental quotas justifies the length of the response periods. This length is nevertheless penalising: you know, Mr Secretary of State, that obtaining authorization depends on the sustainability of the salaried activity of these persons and of their own society. In order to improve the organisation of patient transport, which is a major issue for access to French healthcare, but also for the economic health of companies, does the Minister of Solidarity and Health intend to make it more transparent and practical to obtain authorisation for the commissioning of VSL from the ARS?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u138	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u139	As you said, honourable Member, health carriers carry out essential tasks, both for urgent medical assistance and as a link in the health path of many people, especially those suffering from long-term conditions. This is one of the reasons why the regulation of their activities is complex. The sector's stakeholders, engaged in the transformation of the health system, are currently working to change it. The regional health agency, both guardianship and administrative police, is responsible for applications for company approval and associated changes, including accommodation or vehicle changes. It is also responsible for regulating supply in order to adapt it to the needs of the population while controlling health spending – it is also one of its tasks. In order to implement this regulation, the Director General of the ARS defines a departmental quota of sanitary vehicles in accordance with the rules laid down in the Public Health Code. To this end, account shall be taken, on the one hand, of the ratios per capita, established by ministerial decree, and, on the other hand, of the local characteristics, in particular in the light of the opinion of the sub-committees on health transport, organised by department and involving the various actors of the territory. This procedure avoids arbitrariness due to its transparency and the existence of pre-established rules; This, I believe, is an answer to your question. A health transport company may increase the number of its light sanitary vehicles within the limit of the departmental quota thus fixed. In Île-de-France, in view of the quotas in force, the ARS no longer issues new authorisations for commissioning. However, obtaining authorization is still possible by transfer, following an assignment between companies. Unless mistaken, the services of the ARS have specified this situation to the company of the Val d'Oise that you mentioned. In order to ensure a fairer treatment between the French carriers, the ARS of Île-de-France has chosen to bring together the administrative management of applications for authorisation within a regional service. Be convinced that this service, although located in Seine-Saint-Denis, is effectively linked with the subcommittees organized in each of the departments. The ARS is committed to a transformational approach, which aims to modernise its procedures, in particular by developing the use of digital tools. The challenge is to improve the quality of the service provided to patients, which certainly requires a change in the relationship with health carriers and even the law that governs them. According to the territories, this improvement does not necessarily require an increase in the number of vehicles authorized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u140	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u141	Thank you for that clear answer. The small family businesses of ambulance companies offer reassuring, secure and humane support of patients to health services. The case I mentioned, which concerns Herblay in my constituency, highlights a more general problem: the attitude of the ARS, which does not respond to professionals or users. Indeed, we have been waiting for his reply for 18 months, when his departmental delegation from Val d'Oise had responded to our requests. This leads us to question, as elected officials, the relationship we have with the RSAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u142	The next speaker is Mr Didier Quentin, to put his question, No. 778 on medical demography on the island of Oléron.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u143	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to ask you about the recurring problems of medical demography. In our country, as on the island of Oléron, in my constituency, health professionals and the public are concerned about the retirement of several general practitioners who do not have a replacement. For example, the island of Oléron, with a population of just over 20,000 in the winter but more than 200,000 in the summer, has only 26 general practitioners, of whom twenty-one are close to retirement. In the absence of new practitioners, guards are often provided by retired doctors in recent times. The elimination of the numerus clausus for access to medical studies alone, at least in the short term, will not be sufficient to respond to the shortage of general practitioners or even specialists. This situation is increasingly being experienced by our fellow citizens, who are unable to find a referent general practitioner, the practitioners already installed being themselves, if I may say, saturated with patients. I have even been told of difficulties in obtaining death certificates, with delays in making the necessary findings sometimes lasting several days. In addition, problems of medical demography also affect the specialty of cardiology at the Royan hospital centre. Although a territory hospital group has been established, there is an urgent need to recruit cardiologists. Only a cardiac-oriented medical service existed in Royan. In the absence of a sufficient number of cardiologists, it has just been transformed into a multipurpose bed service. This is very insufficient for this city and its agglomeration, which has a large elderly population and has considerable tourist traffic. As a result, the emergency department at Royan's hospital is further congested, and caregivers often find themselves confronted with very aggressive citizens. I would therefore be grateful if the Government could tell me whether it is possible to experiment, in Oleron Island and in the country of Royanese, with the arrangements of interns or medical staff providing general medical services, which are provided for in the plan "my health 2022". In addition, is it possible to recommend to the New Aquitaine Regional Health Agency that one or two additional cardiologists be recruited for the Royan Hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u144	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u145	Mr President, the demographic challenge we face is important: whatever the medical field in question, the number of general practitioners or direct access specialists practising as a Liberal has been declining steadily since 2010, and this decline is likely to continue until 2025. For this reason, we launched, as early as October 2017, the plan for equal access to care in the territories, which includes a range of solutions, adaptable to each local context, as the response to demographic difficulties cannot be unique or homogeneous across the territory. Since then, mobilization and cooperation dynamics have been initiated locally. They have made it possible to make initial progress on the ground. The "My Health 2022" strategy, announced by the President of the Republic last September, has given new impetus, speeding up the implementation of some of the mechanisms provided for in this plan, starting with the territorial professional health communities – CPTS – and proposing additional levers to free up medical time and revitalize community-based care. I am thinking in particular of the creation of 4000 posts of medical assistants whose role will be to assist and support doctors in a range of administrative and health-care tasks. An agreement was signed last weekend on this issue by the main organizations concerned. I am also thinking of the deployment of 400 general practitioners in territories considered priority, in exercise shared between a hospital structure and an outpatient structure, or as employees of a health centre or facility. On the island of Oléron, this policy translates into a real development of the coordinated structures of exercise, which are, as we know, a strong lever of attractiveness. A health centre and two multi-professional health homes opened in 2018, and two other projects are under way, of which you are probably aware. This policy is also reflected in the establishment of advanced specialist consultations within the local hospital centre in Saint-Pierre, in pneumonology, orthopaedics and urology. You mentioned the difficulties associated with the large seasonal variation in the population. CPTS can provide a response in this regard, as it allows health professionals to organize and coordinate in a wider area than their patient's. With regard to diabetic patients, whose care, I know, is of concern to you, I would point out to you that the creation of nurses in advanced practice, with expanded skills for the follow-up of chronic patients, was one of the first emblematic measures taken in the framework of the plan. In New Aquitaine, regional policy aims to organize the supply so as to prevent patients from breaking paths, by strengthening the networking of multi-professional health homes, by facilitating access to specialist consultations – by relying on telemedicine, which is an important element of the "my health 2022" plan, or the establishment of advanced consultations – and by deploying the patient's therapeutic education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u146	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to raise her question, No 779 on the reimbursement of innovative anticancer medicines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u147	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, René, who lives in Saint-Laurent-du-Var, in my constituency, has worked and contributed throughout his life. Now retired, he has metastatic bladder cancer. Because of another pathology, he cannot be treated with chemotherapy. For the past two months, he has not received any treatment. His vital prognosis is engaged. There is an innovative treatment, which could increase its life expectancy and even save it: pembrolitzumab. According to the High Health Authority, this medicine is essential to treat a patient with locally advanced or metastatic bladder cancer; it allows the overall survival of the latter to be extended by more than two years. However, this medicine remains inaccessible, as it is not reimbursed by health insurance, which is absurd, since it was the subject of a marketing authorisation in 2017. Faced with this dramatic situation, the polyclinic Saint-Jean de Cagnes-sur-Mer, which takes care of René, decided, on an exceptional basis, to take charge of his treatment. His anguish is behind him; He will no longer wake up every morning, saying that he is condemned to no treatment, because of an incomprehensible and dramatic system, both for the medical profession and for all French people, especially those with cancer. If, for René, the story ends well, it ends badly for the hundreds or thousands of people who find themselves in a similar situation, because the treatment remains inaccessible to them. It ends badly for patients with metastatic kidney cancer or lung cancer who cannot access effective immunotherapy because they are not reimbursed when they have received a marketing authorisation. In a context where the public hospital service lacks financial and human resources, health facilities do not have sufficient budgets to support innovative and costly treatments, as the Saint John Polyclinic does, Secretary of State, make sure that the story ends well for our fellow citizens with cancer, who could benefit from these treatments. The marketing authorisation and the reimbursement procedure should be initiated simultaneously, as is already the case in Germany. My question is therefore twofold: will the Government ensure that people with metastatic bladder cancer benefit from this molecule? Does he intend to open up more access to innovative treatments, in order to respond with humanity and benevolence to the therapeutic needs of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u148	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u149	Madam Member, in the face of your question of humanity, which recounts René's life path, my answer may seem to you technical and cold. Be convinced, however, that, thanks in particular to her experience, the Minister of Solidarity and Health is addressing these issues not only with expertise but also with benevolence and humanity. I also hope to provide some initial answers to your question. You are alerting the Government about the impossibility for patients to access an anticancer medicine, Keytruda, a pembrolitzumab, used in the treatment of certain bladder cancers. In an opinion delivered on 21 February 2018, the Committee on Transparency of the High Health Authority considered that this medicine brought an improvement in the medical service rendered minor compared to classical chemotherapy. The assessment submitted by this Commission, which is made up of independent scientific experts, was based on three main points: patients taking Keytruda survive three months longer than if they are receiving chemotherapy; the studies carried out have not studied – unfortunately – the quality of life of these patients; A higher risk of death is observed in the first two months of treatment compared to chemotherapy. The Transparency Committee confirmed these conclusions in an opinion delivered on 5 December 2018. It also considered that Keytruda was not likely to have an impact on public health for the indication concerned. For all these reasons, Keytruda is not eligible for inclusion on the "plus list" of medicines considered to be innovative and expensive, the cost of which is fully covered. In other cases, the medicines are covered by social security as part of the lump sum payment linked to the patient's stay. Sensitive to the problems faced by patients and aware of the difficulties of access to certain expensive treatments, the Minister of Solidarity and Health is currently considering, in consultation with all the stakeholders, the evolution of the arrangements for registering and financing the products of the "plus list", beyond the case you mentioned. An experiment has been launched in a few health facilities to test a new device to change the conditions for the use and management of expensive medicines. While waiting for this mechanism to be effective and in order not to interfere with this experiment, the ministry is looking at solutions that could be put in place quickly, temporarily and specifically to respond to the situation you have described, which obviously cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u150	Mrs Isabelle Valentin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 781, on the situation of residential establishments for dependent elderly persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u151	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I receive in my tenure many pensioners, families, health professionals or senior executives who address the delicate issue of addiction. A comprehensive overhaul of our health care system is essential. We need to address the issues of medical desertification, access to care, emergencies, the role of associations or the Red Cross, including ageing and dependency. The Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing, which was intended to promote home care, gave rise to much hope, but the means were not available. The possibility of freely choosing to age at home or in institutions should not be a dream. Today, entry into EHPAD is later, but the pathologies are much heavier. This development is not neutral for EHPADs: they must continually adapt, on a constant basis, to the reception of older people who are increasingly dependent. Too restrictive and inadequate legal framework, lack of human and financial resources, these are the obstacles that prevent institutions from effectively adapting to the needs of older persons and the wishes of families. In the absence of adequate resources, staff are maintained artificially, for example through the rural revitalization zones. However, I am very concerned about the changes that appear to be under consideration in this regard. In 2018, this aid amounted to €35,000 for an EHPAD in my constituency. The reduction in employers' contributions was EUR 326 for a full-time employee paid around EUR 12 or 13 per hour. If the measure is removed, this amount will be passed on to the daily price paid by residents. In Haute-Loire, the average retirement pension is less than 1000 euros and the average cost of an establishment varies between 1800 and 2200 euros, excluding dependency. So you will understand my concern. For the same employee, the general reduction in employer contributions, known as the Fillon reduction, represents a net gain of 70 euros per month, which is not negligible for staff. The financing of the old age is anything but simple, as the stakes are great for the years to come. It must be global and adapted, it cannot be reduced to an addition of measures, it must correspond to a vision. What concrete actions will be taken quickly, on the one hand, to enable EHPADs to adapt to current challenges and to take full action for the elderly, and, on the other hand, to enable staff to exercise their profession effectively, to give them recognition and to improve their status, all in the greatest fairness?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u152	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u153	Of course, the Government shares your concern about the issues related to the ageing of the population facing our country. Improving the quality of life is a priority of government action, be it for seniors living at home or in institutions, as well as for their caregivers – you have noted that we have opened a project on this subject – and for the professionals who accompany them. The road map for older people, presented on 30 May 2018, includes ways to redesign the funding system, including home support, to make it more attractive for professionals. It has led to the generalization of the presence of night nurses in EHPADs, which helps to reduce the fears of residents as well as caregivers, exposed and vulnerable at this time. This first step reflects our desire to increase the number of caregivers for the elderly. The first commitments made to EHPADs were set out in the Social Security Financing Act for 2019. These results in the allocation of additional resources to improve the quality of life of older persons and professionals. The acceleration of tariff convergence as early as 2019 will allow the vast majority of EHPADs to benefit more quickly from additional resources mainly aimed at accelerating the recruitment of care workers and improving the rate of supervision in these institutions. More than EUR 160 million is allocated for this year. At the same time, the measure of neutralizing negative convergences of care and dependency packages, introduced in 2018, continues to apply. As a result, no institution will see its holdings decline from year to year. In addition, additional resources are devoted to the financing of prevention plans in EHPAD – up to EUR 30 million – and to the generalisation of the presence of night nurses – up to EUR 10 million. Finally, €9 million has been renewed to support quality of life at work in EHPAD. Beyond these various measures, which constitute a coherent set and a necessary investment, the work carried out from October 2018 to February 2019 in the framework of the national consultation "age and autonomy" and the various proposals formulated in Dominique Libault's report are intended to fuel an ambitious reform to meet the challenge of old age and autonomy, as announced by the President of the Republic. This ambitious reform can also be inspired by a specific mission on the attractiveness of older occupations, in order to respond to the challenges of demographic change, while improving the quality of care and working conditions for professionals in the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u154	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor to put his question, No. 784, on difficulties in accessing speech-language care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u155	I wanted to draw the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the difficulties in accessing speech care. For several years, speech therapists have been alerting the Government to the deterioration of their operating conditions, both in hospitals and in the liberal sector. The phenomenon of medical desertification does not spare the profession, either in the public hospital or in the private sector. It is reinforced by wage scales which constitute a real obstacle to the attractiveness of the profession. Since 2013, speech therapists must have reached the master's degree, i.e. a baccalaureate level +5. However, the index grids of the hospital civil service always assimilate them to agents with a qualification of bac+3. This lack of recognition, both of their level of training and of their responsibilities and autonomy, together with the problem of medical demography, results in the vacancy of many posts in the hospital and in medical and social institutions. At the same time, the need for speech care continues to increase. The field of pathologies requiring management is wide and is increasing due to the prevalence of certain diseases – stroke, upper aerodigestive cancers, communication disorders – as well as the aging of the population. This effect of scissors between the supply and the demand for care results in saturation of the liberal offices, to which the hospital deficit refers. In general, it leads to late care and thus to a deterioration in the quality of care provided to patients. In the face of this situation, the Fédération nationale des orthophonistes has, for more than a year, made known a series of concrete proposals. The question of remuneration must obviously find a lasting and coherent answer, but other areas of work can be explored in the areas of recruitment, prevention, access to care or the relationship with caregivers. I would like to know what the Minister intends to do to address this problem in concrete terms, at a time when the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system is aimed at eliminating medical deserts and ensuring access to quality care for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u156	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u157	You draw our attention to the access to speech-language care and the lack of attractiveness of positions in health facilities, particularly in terms of the level of remuneration, the salary scales assimilating speech-language therapists – as you explained very well – to professions with a bachelor's or bachelor's degree+3, and not to a master's or bachelor's degree+5. Your question focuses on the remuneration of incumbent professionals, members of the orthophonists of the hospital public service. In particular, you are addressing the subject of indexary treatment. Let me remind you of a number of recent and ongoing measures. On the one hand, the decree of 9 August 2017 organised the reclassification, as of 1 September 2017, of five rehabilitation professions, including speech therapists, from category B to category A of the hospital public service, to grades 1 and 2 of general care nurses. This first reclassification has led to a significant upgrading of the basic salary, since speech therapists are now starting their careers in a scale of 40 index points compared to the index grid of category B – this represents about 187 euros gross per month. A second reclassification, which took place on 1 January 2019, amplified this increase. A third recovery, which will take place on 1 January 2020, will achieve the definitive grid. At the end of this increase, the overall remuneration of hospital speech therapists, including basic salary and indexed premiums, will have increased by more than 300 euros per month at the beginning of their careers, and by more than 500 euros per month at the end of their careers. The speech therapists' grid will then culminate at the same level as that of massage therapists, surgical nurses and childcare workers, all of whom are health professions for which the duration of initial training is more than three years after the baccalaureate. These measures should be given time to bear fruit, as their implementation period has not yet been completed. In the current budgetary context, these wage measures deserve to be recalled. They are, of course, considered insufficient by professionals – we are well aware of them – but they are unmatched among the other bodies of the public service. While this statutory upgrading is essential, it alone will not be sufficient to meet all the challenges of the attractiveness of the profession in the hospital – the Government is aware of this. Improving access to speech-language care will also require greater flexibility for professionals who wish to combine hospital and liberal practice. This ambition is enshrined in the plan "My Health 2022" and in the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system. The non-full-time exercise will now be authorized for incumbent hospital officials, which will allow the development of a mixed exercise, in accordance with the wishes of many professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u158	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u159	I am fully aware of the ongoing revalorisation, but it is too slow, partial and insufficient. I call on the Government to consult with the National Federation of Speech-Language Practitioners in order to work on the remuneration arrangements and also on the attractiveness of the profession. The conditions of exercise in the hospital are one of the elements of attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u160	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to raise her question, No. 786, concerning the public health establishment in Lomagne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u161	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Solidarity and Health to the worrying situation of the public health establishment in Lomagne, which is destined to reproduce in areas of medical desertification. This episode must therefore alert all competent authorities and services. Since April, the activities of the medical and follow-up care and rehabilitation department of the Fleurance Hospital, one of the institutions' sites, have been under threat. The unilateral withdrawal of physicians on weekends and public holidays compromised the permanence of care within the institution. Worse, this could call into question short-term health authorization. However, the sustainability of these services, which have 52 beds, is essential to ensure that users have access to quality community care. Particularly mobilized and supported by local elected officials, the management team studied various solutions with the medical community. An interim solution ensured the continuity of care until 1 July, with the authorization of the regional health agency – ARS. Currently, the hospital group of Gers territory is in charge of negotiating a contract with the departmental association of medical emergencies. They are in the process of developing a local solution that could ensure the continuity of care in the context of medical desertification. In this case, as well as throughout the national territory, regulatory flexibilities must be provided in order to enable local hospitals, located in areas of medical desertification, to build solutions with all relevant actors. What are the Government's intentions with regard to the Fleurance Hospital? Does it intend to preserve the sustainability of the services concerned, which are vital, and validate this unprecedented contract? What is the status of the deployment of the 400 positions of general practitioners in priority territories? Can the Gers health facilities, four of which have just been labeled "neighbourly hospitals", hope for additional means to carry out their missions and participate in experiments to limit medical desertification?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u162	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u163	I hear your concern about this local situation and, more generally, maintaining continuity of care in some small isolated hospitals. With regard to the situation at Lomagne's public health facility, a solution was found between management, the chairman of the supervisory board, the ARS and the liberal doctors, who committed themselves to continue their contribution to the continuity of care until 31 December, in time to find a lasting solution with the other actors in the territory. In addition, I would like to highlight the exemplary networking of Gers by local hospitals. These are articulated with the reference institution through the territory hospital group and fully invested by liberal doctors, who thus benefit from a first-level hospitalisation solution for their patient. They are a real attractiveness factor for new practitioners and quality of care for patients. At the end of your question, you also asked me about the deployment of the 400 general practitioners in the priority territories, an important measure of the "my health 2022" strategy, which specifically targets situations such as those in your territory. This measure has been operational since February. It is divided into two complementary components: exercise positions shared between the city and the hospital; positions of salaried doctors in the sub-dense zone or in the priority neighbourhood of the city's policy. Some 20 recruitments have already been carried out. More than a quarter of the mixed city-hospital projects were identified and validated for recruitment in November, and sixty-five employee recruitment projects were selected by regional health agencies to allow hiring before the summer. In Occitanie, the deployment of the device is anticipated. The SRA is now working with the URPP – Regional Union of Health Professionals – physicians, federations of institutions and faculties of medicine to structure job offers, so as to promote relevant recruitment as quickly as possible. The request of Lomagne's public health facility, which serves a sub-dense basin, has been taken into account in the construction of the job offers promoted by the RSA. As for community hospitals, the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system tends to redefine these institutions through their missions. As the first level of gradation of hospital care in medicine, community hospitals will be positioned as a resource for health actors in the territory. They are intended to constitute a real link between the hospital world and city medicine, in order to offer a readable and structured offer of community care. Finally, you asked me about the means that will be made available for local hospitals to carry out their tasks. Be reassured on this point: we want to secure the funding of community hospitals, especially for activities made mandatory in order to ensure support for the exercise of city medicine. These new missions must indeed be financed commensurate with their importance and the challenges related to the medical desertification that you have mentioned. You will have an opportunity to discuss it more specifically in the fall, with the Minister of Solidarity and Health and myself, during the review of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u164	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u165	I stress the need for local hospitals to network the territory. For the time being, in a department like mine, the Gers, many patients suffering from fairly heavy pathologies must be hospitalized in a university hospital centre, especially that of Toulouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u166	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to put his question, No. 782, on the place of birth declaration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u167	As you know, Secretary of State, Bar-le-Duc's maternity has just closed. It is a shock for the population and for the elected officials, who have done everything to maintain it. At the staff's vows last January, however, the hospital management had publicly indicated that it would do everything possible to maintain this maternity for at least five years, unless it could find the necessary staff. But the attractiveness of the establishment has deteriorated. When a service loses a pediatrician, it is extremely difficult to recruit a new one. As you know, we tried everything with your administration to find solutions. We have increased the number of appointments with your office and that of the Minister of Solidarity and Health. You tried to use the National Reserve. Nothing was possible. When the decision was made, we opposed it. Alas, no one is bound to the impossible. It's a tragedy for the people. Two important questions now arise. I will not dwell on the first: the complement to the medical offer, which corresponds to the commitment of the ministry. There is a need for the services that still work to be more accompanied, for more staff and for complementarity to function in a real balance. We will study the announcements that will take place in the coming weeks. The second question, which may seem technical, is nevertheless important. It relates to the authorization to make the birth declaration at the place of life. How can we accept, even though this is a notable indicator for the census, that no one can declare the birth of their child in Bar-le-Duc anymore? In this area, the attachment to the commune is real. How can we ensure that the restructuring, which already does not allow parents to choose the place of birth of their child, at least the possibility of declaring it at the place where they reside and to which they are strongly attached? The communities concerned are also interested for reasons related to spatial planning. Thank you for your position on this and how we could move forward on this issue, which, while not essential, is complementary to the other commitments made by the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u168	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u169	Mr President, thank you for your question. The subject is strictly sensu of the duties of the keeper of the seals, since it relates to the civil status, but the underlying questions of access to care, which you have recalled very well, justify that I try to answer you. We hear your wish to allow parents to declare the birth of their child at the town hall of their place of residence. However, beyond the fact that parents may not reside together at that birth – without being frequent, this situation is possible – such a proposal would introduce for birth certificates a derogation from the principle of establishing civil status certificates at the place of the event they relate. However, this old principle guarantees the authenticity of the civil status documents recorded by the registrar. On the other hand, on a practical level, you will agree that it would become difficult to know where the birth certificates were drawn up. In principle, the place of birth is better known than the place of residence of the parents at the time of birth. The measure would greatly complicate the task of applicants for copies or extracts of birth certificates, be they of the persons concerned themselves, notaries or genealogists. The current provisions do not prevent the actual place of life of the parents from being identified in the context of the demographic surveys carried out periodically. Finally, I would like to point out that the regulations on civil status already require the town hall of the parents' residence to record the birth information of a child that has taken place in another municipality. The town hall of Bar-le-Duc must therefore record the births that concern its residents. The town hall of the parents' place of life thus has the opportunity to know the number of births, thus the evolution of the population on its territory. These are the elements that I could provide, without going back to the other two points that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u170	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u171	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your technical response. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that my initiative has been suggested to me by your services. A few weeks ago, when we were told that the disappearance of maternity was almost certain, we were advised to fight the question of the place of birth, because it could have an impact on the demographic count in our commune. Bar-le-Duc does not want to suffer the double penalty of closing her maternity and losing the benefits granted to places of birth. I therefore very much hope that you will look into this important matter, if only to honour a commitment of your services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u172	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1278.u173	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote by public vote of the mobility guidance bill; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on digital coverage of the territory; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to rationalise public agencies and national consultative bodies. The meeting is adjourned.
