ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u2	We are dealing with the examination of health appropriations and appropriations relating to solidarity, integration and equal opportunities (No 2301, Annexes 38 and 41; No 2304, Volumes I and II). Mrs Véronique Louwagie, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u3	The "Health" mission includes health expenditures not included in the social security budget. This concerns, on the one hand, the State's medical aid policy – MEA –, which is part of programme 183 "Sickness protection", on the other hand, preventive measures, which are included in programme 204 "Prevention, health security and provision of care". The appropriations for this mission are EUR 1.1 billion, a 20% decrease compared to 2019, due in particular to a major perimeter effect. Indeed, the funding of the two main operators under programme 204 is transferred from 2020 onwards to health insurance. Of course, the simplification of funding channels for health agencies is necessary; However, the succession of transfers has resulted in a 70% decrease in funding to Program 204 since 2012. This year's 60% reduction in the programme's appropriations raises the question of the critical size of the programme in order to enable the State to steer public health policy. More broadly, we need to ask ourselves about the future of this program, and even the "Health" mission. Having said that, I would like to draw your attention to two important points of the mission. The first concerns the evolution of the AME, which covers the health expenditure of people in an irregular situation on French territory. I note that the planned allocation for this public policy is stable, as the number of beneficiaries increased again in 2019, and the average cost per recipient is also increasing. It should be recalled that the cost of AME increased by 46% between 2011 and 2020, representing an annual increase of 5%. The Government believes that the strengthening of the fight against fraud at the AME will help to limit the inflation of this expenditure in 2020. If such an approach goes in the right direction, it remains largely insufficient. It is time – and I have been saying this for the last two years – to reform the system structurally, in order to ensure its financial sustainability – a real issue – and its acceptability by our fellow citizens. I have therefore tabled amendments aimed at refocusing the scheme on vital or urgent care. The reform of the AME must be part of a more comprehensive debate, on the one hand, on migration policy, and on the other hand, on the importance of non-billable care and uncollectible debts by hospitals for the care of foreigners in an irregular situation but who do not qualify for AME. It seems that the amounts are not the least.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u5	I regret, Madam Minister, the extremely late publication of the report of the General Inspectorate of Finance – IGF – and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – on the AME: it was not submitted until Tuesday afternoon; You will agree that it is difficult to review a 204-page report in such a short time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u6	Perfectly scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u7	Of course, the report proposes several avenues for reform, which the Government has tabled amendments to this finance bill. Some of these amendments were tabled last night, others in the night, just a few hours before their consideration in the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u8	Inadmissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u9	This method is not beneficial for the work in this House. A second question is of particular interest to me: compensation for the victims of the Dépakine. I highlighted in my last year's report the complexity of the compensation scheme that has been in place since 2017 and its dysfunctions. We adopted last year – and I thank you again, colleagues – a request for a report on the management of this mechanism; Then, in June of this year, in the spring of the evaluation, we unanimously adopted a resolution on its essential reform. Again, I regret that the report was submitted very late to Parliament – it came to us only yesterday afternoon, so that few of us were able to learn about it. However, the Government has taken into consideration our warnings, as it wishes to make a substantial amendment to the compensation scheme, by merging the two bodies, reducing the time frame within which an offer of compensation is proposed in lieu of victims, and by introducing presumptions of knowledge of the adverse effects of medicines more favourable to victims. I will therefore vote in favour of the proposed reform of compensation for the victims of the Dépakin. As of 30 September last year, the National Office for the Compensation of Medical Accidents, Iatrogenic Diseases and Nosocomial Infections (ONIAM) had received only 555 cases of direct victims – a number far below the original estimate of 10290. We must therefore continue the work undertaken to improve access to the scheme, to find the families concerned and to support them in their efforts. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, if the appropriations for the Health Mission have been adopted by the Finance Committee, I will vote against them because of the unsustainable nature of the state's medical aid scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u10	Mrs Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u11	Thank you for showing up so early, while the night was long. The mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" funds the State's public policies in support of the most fragile. With €25.5 billion in 2020, it is the subject of a significant budgetary effort, which goes beyond the forecasts of the law on public finance programming. The appropriations allocated in this finance bill are up 1.6 billion euros, which is mainly due to the upgrading of the mission's two main benefits: the activity bonus and the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH. In 2020, the State will spend €9.5 billion on the financing of the business premium. I would like to highlight the increase in the cost of the scheme, which was €6 billion at the end of 2018. Its exceptional upgrading at the beginning of 2019 increased the purchasing power of the beneficiaries. The gain is up to 90 euros per month when income is at SMIC level; if one takes into account the revalorisation of the latter, the gain is 100 euros in total. Some 4.1 million households are now receiving the activity premium. This increase is due to the decline in the point of exit of the premium, but also to a higher rate of recourse, most certainly because of the important communication campaign which accompanied the announcement of its increase. This increase is good news – I have regularly pointed out in my previous reports how important it is to improve access to this right. The AAH has been increased to 900 euros per month since November 1, 2019, in accordance with the commitments of our majority. Its full rate was EUR 819 per month in April 2018. As a result, the state will spend nearly EUR 11 billion on this service in 2020. The size of the budget volume of the AHA should not, however, obscure the other mechanisms of the mission in favour of persons with disabilities. With EUR 9.9 million, the appropriations allocated to accompaniment for employment have doubled in two years. While this effort is commendable, it is still necessary to facilitate return journeys between business employment and ESAT reception – workplace support facilities and services – in order to smooth out the journeys of people with disabilities. The Mission's contribution to reducing inequality is all the more important as it concentrates the funds allocated to the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty. With €215 million in 2020, the latter finances actions at local level, notably through agreements signed between the State and the departments. However, the results published by DREES – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – in July 2019, concerning the integration of people far from employment, show that much progress remains to be made. It is for this reason that two consultations are under way, with a view to defining a universal income for activity and a public service for integration. Moreover, State support for the social policies of the departments is being strengthened. In 2020, EUR 162 million will be spent on the assessment and protection of unaccompanied minors, a subject of long-standing concern to me. Nor do I forget the strategy of prevention and protection of children, recently presented by Secretary of State Adrien Taquet, which confirms the increasing involvement of the State in this matter. Finally, essential arrangements should be adjusted. I issued an alert last June on food aid policy. FranceAgriMer's cash flow is, for 2019 alone, in deficit of more than 40 million euros. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to this situation. The complexity of the rules governing the purchase of food leads to considerable legal and financial uncertainty for FranceAgriMer, at the risk of destabilizing our food aid policy. The same applies to support for the family and social reintegration of former migrants in their country of origin – ARFS. With only 29 beneficiaries registered in May 2019, this scheme did not find its public, due to too restrictive conditions of granting. However, the Mission's budget provides for an increase of EUR 200000 in the amount of ARFS. Minister, it would be appropriate to experiment with an enlargement of the award criteria; We have tabled an amendment to that effect. The mission also includes funds from programme 137, "Equality between women and men". The Sanctuarization of these appropriations is an important symbol and I support the Government's willingness to reconsider the transfer measure announced at the time of the publication of the finance bill. I would like to highlight the effort that has been made beyond the framework of the mission that is of interest to us, as EUR 1.1 billion is mobilised in 2020 by all ministries in favour of gender equality. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would add that the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities" succeeds in contributing to the reduction of the public deficit, thanks to the gradual reduction of the operating expenditure of programme 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u12	Mrs Caroline Fiat, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u13	I am not going to extend to the funding of programmes 204 and 183, which remain stable at constant scope, at least until we have voted on the government amendments on which I will come back. The programs of the "Health" mission provide an opportunity to address two sensitive topics. First of all, I am thinking of the compensation of the victims of the Dépakine thanks to the appropriations of Program 204. The Sanofi laboratory has been recognized as responsible for this scandal both by the courts and by the college of independent experts placed at ONIAM. Its refusal to participate in the compensation scheme is a second scandal which makes the cost of this compensation to be borne by national solidarity. I would therefore like to support the decision of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to ask ONIAM to turn against the laboratory. I come to state medical aid, funded by Program 183: this is the first time in several years that the funds allocated to it have not increased. As for the number of beneficiaries, it was almost no longer increasing, and the Government announced that it would want to control expenditure more effectively by increasing the number of checks at the application stage by 20 per cent. In recent months, there have been serious concerns about the Government's intentions to reduce this essential social benefit. My budgetary opinion sets out in detail all the arguments put forward on this subject, but let me remind you of some of them. First: no, the AME does not give rise to massive fraud. This is one of the most controlled benefits at all levels. Let's get back to their fair share: fraud at the AME accounts for only 0.06% of the expenditure devoted to it, i.e., two to three times less than sickness insurance fraud! Second: no, it is not to benefit from the AME that one immigrates to France. More than 80 per cent of migrants in precarious situations who are entitled to health insurance do not have any! As the associations point out, but also the Defender of Rights and even the IGAS and the IGF, it is, more than the question of a risk of abuse, that of the abandonment of care that arises, with its effects in terms of epidemics and public health. Let's repeat: no, AME is not too expensive a service. It accounts for only 0.4 % of the approximately €204 billion in healthcare expenditure. On average, an AME beneficiary consumes only 2700 euros compared to 3200 euros for a social insurance company, or 15% less. Tertio, no, the AME does not offer too large a basket of care since it is smaller than that of the recipients of the supplementary universal health insurance, the CMU-C, and a number of benefits or devices are excluded from it, including access to prevention programmes. Despite everything, the AME is the object of all fantasies and attempts to reduce it. Although IGAS and IGF explained in the early 2010s that the introduction of a stamp duty would be ineffective and dangerous to public health, the Government introduced it in 2011 before returning quickly a few months later, in the light of the disaster: the measure had certainly resulted in a decrease in the number of beneficiaries and an increase in tax revenues, but also in the explosion of expenditure in emergency services! As for the reduction of the basket of care which some people call tirelessly of their wishes, let us recall that other countries have experienced it, in particular Spain, to fight against so-called health tourism. The result is an explosion in the mortality rate among the migrant population, by more than 15 per cent in three years. I will conclude by recalling that health professionals and all the actors on the ground – Médecins du monde, France Assos Santé, the social Samu, the Interfederal National Union of Non-Profit Health and Social Works and Organizations or UNIOPSS, but also the Defender of Rights and the Academy of Medicine, not to mention bodies such as the International Organization for Migration – are standing up against the heresy and the catastrophe represented by the reductions in access to AME in France. It is totally irresponsible to put the AME on the same level as the medical deserts and to bring the French against migrants, as some arguments do: it is human, public health and the effects on the healthcare system that this is all about. That is why it is important not to amputate state medical aid. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] It was at the very last moment, Madam Minister, that you tabled amendments to restrict access to the AME and to introduce a three-month waiting period for asylum seekers seeking universal disease protection – PUMA. Such contempt for parliamentarians is unbearable! You only leave us a few hours to react on such a crucial subject! These measures will only delay access to the care of fragile people, worsen pathologies and congest emergency services. What happened in a year, minister? Where are the beautiful humanistic and reassuring words you uttered last year? How can you understand your amendment to reduce the AME's budget by EUR 15 million, reading your tweets last year on the same subject? What happened to the minister I was applause about when he spoke? It would be a good hope for her to reappear this morning in session!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u14	Mrs Delphine Bagarry, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u15	The Solidarity Mission's overall budget has increased by 30 per cent since the beginning of the quinquennium, and this increase affects almost all programmes. Since the measures have been presented in detail by the Special Rapporteur, I will concentrate on Action 19 of Programme 304, which provides for €215 million to be spent on the implementation of the strategy for preventing and combating poverty. These allocations, which increased by more than EUR 50 million compared to last year, reflect the increase in the strategy that will continue until 2022, under the responsibility of several ministries and the coordination of an interministerial delegate and regional high commissioners. The Government has endeavoured to work with the communities responsible for solidarity policies to make it a joint, bottom-up project, as close as possible to the territories. This approach has led to a first success: with the exception of two of them for reasons unrelated to the strategy itself, all departments and two metropolises have signed a contract with the State. The spirit of co-construction that prevailed greatly contributed to the positive climate in which the exchanges took place. Similarly, the involvement of the Secretaries of State Christelle Dubos and Adrien Taquet, as well as the commitments made by the Government, have contributed significantly. The aim of the contract with the departments is to focus their action on the fight against the dry exits from social assistance for children, the policies of integration of the beneficiaries of active solidarity income, the improvement of the first social receptions and the delays in taking care of them, the referents of journeys, the establishment of mixed maraudes between the State and the departments, the strengthening of specialized prevention and the training of social workers. The State and local and regional authorities have developed common social engineering tools that provide an overall view of the progress of these public policies in the territories. On the other hand, Action 19 finances several social investment measures: budget advisory points, breakfasts at school, social pricing of canteens or the social mix bonus in crèches. Most of these measures are aimed at children and are still in the process of being deployed, and the communities concerned can be supported by the State. The strategy for preventing and combating poverty goes beyond the scope of this mission. In total, EUR 8.5 billion is allocated to the Commission, mainly for the benefit of children, young people and employment. The aim is to facilitate access to basic rights such as housing and care, and above all to break the mechanisms for the reproduction of poverty. Despite these positive points, however, the hearings have revealed several points which deserve further consideration. Without ignoring the existing arrangements, I believe that measures to access culture, sport and leisure should be stepped up, as these are real means of emancipation and openness, and catalysts for integration. As far as students are concerned, more and more students do not have complementary health care. Work could be done to remedy this deficiency and, where appropriate, to facilitate access to complementary health care. Finally, the communal centres for social action – CCIS – have become increasingly difficult to carry out their task under the law establishing the right to effective housing, the DALO law: homelessness of homeless people, which is the key to access to rights. Consideration could be given to allocating additional resources to this cause. I would like to refer to a situation which is little reflected in the strategy: that of migrants, whether they are refugees or in an irregular situation, who are the dead end of the strategy, even though they constitute a significant part of people in great insecurity. While certain measures – such as mixed state-department marauds – concern them, they are indirectly and, most often, as parents of children in danger. Some live in social hotels for several years or change homes frequently, which hinders the regular schooling of children and, therefore, learning. Access to care is complex and may become more complex. I hope that yesterday's Prime Minister's proposals will make it easier for them to get to work. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Clearly, I hope that the reflection will be extended and that it will take into account the situation of these people facing situations of high social and health vulnerability, so that the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty does not leave any public behind. Let us give solidarity policies a strong ambition; France must remain faithful to its values, and continue to be proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u16	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u17	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u18	We were informed yesterday that the Government intends to reduce the budget for State medical assistance and that it proposes to introduce a waiting period for universal health protection for asylum-seekers. Never, Madam Minister, would I have thought that this government that I fight every day would fall so low. The nauseating debate that Emmanuel Macron wanted about immigration and the alleged abuses of foreigners in an irregular situation to satisfy an extreme right-wing electorate is unworthy. The cynicism of this Government and its methods will have disastrous consequences for many human beings! No matter their nationality and origins; Does he deserve to suffer for the President of the Republic to be gargarian for having "taken over our migration policy"? Should we play with the health of migrants to seduce an electorate? The re-election of the President of the Republic does not justify everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u19	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u20	This day will remain in memories like the one where your party, Emmanuel Macron's party, flouted republican principles to hunt on the lands of the National Front.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u21	It's not worthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u22	Last week, in Values Actuelles, the President of the Republic brought out the old fable of "medical tourism", suggesting that many foreigners would come to benefit from the French care system. Let us be rigorous: the IGAS and IGF report presented last week struggles to demonstrate the existence of channels coming from the countries of the East to feed the so-called medical tourism. This report contains few quantitative elements, and the figures are purely anecdotal. In 2016, a study by Médecins du Monde noted that only 3% of patients reported leaving their country for health reasons. The idea that the AME attracts a large flow of migrants coming to France for treatment does not stand the test of the facts: all the available surveys show that health is a very marginal reason for migration, much less frequent than the others. However, you are about to reduce the right to health of all asylum seekers without any evidence or figures on so-called medical tourism. Don't be the useful idiots of Le Pen, Ménard and Salvini! Colleagues, Emmanuel Macron was elected in 2017 stating that Ms Merkel had saved Europe's dignity by welcoming hundreds of thousands of refugees. Do you think it is necessary to sink into indignity to be re-elected in 2022? Where have our common values gone? The right to health protection is a constitutional principle; Are you going to trample on him to seduce an electorate? If you vote for a reduction in health rights for asylum seekers and migrants, then the far right has already won, because it has insidiously settled in your minds. In 2012, Spain, while the right wing was in power, reduced the right to health of irregular migrants. As a result, the mortality rate has increased by 15 per cent in three years among the migrant population. Is this desirable for France? Do you think that helped Mr. Rajoy get re-elected? On the contrary, the emergence of Vox, a neo-Francist party, is the terrible result. The AME allows people who are particularly vulnerable because of their administrative and social precariousness to take care of themselves and accounts for only a small proportion of public health expenditure: 0.5% of health insurance expenditure. Reducing it would increase the non-use of care, which is already very common among the populations concerned. Restricting access to the care of undocumented migrants will increase the risk of morbidity and mortality among migrants and will, as you know, promote the spread of communicable diseases. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Studies show that a restriction of the AME will lead to an additional burden for hospital finance and emergencies, which are already in great difficulty. You are faced with a choice that will determine the nature of your political commitment: defending our humanistic values and protecting the health of migrants, or threatening the health of several hundred people to seduce the far right. This moment of truth obliges us all. The Socialist Group will vote against all the Government's amendments to reduce the AME and access to universal health protection for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u23	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u24	This morning we are looking at the appropriations for the "Health" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" missions. The "Health" mission, because of the inclusion of credits related to the AME, crystallizes the oppositions each year. The inspection report issued this week includes even the expression "the most scrutinized billion in the Republic". The reality forces us to say that if the AME system fulfils a duty of humanity, it meets above all a logic of controlling public spending. The alternative is indeed simple. We could sort patients at the hospital entrance according to the depth of their wallet and identity card – other countries have chosen this path – or, because we know that diseases do not discriminate according to nationality, we can make the rational choice of spending a specific budget on them. This avoids additional costs by allowing its beneficiaries access to city care. This also avoids transferring the cost of such care to hospitals. They don't need it. The stakes are elsewhere. It is a matter of increasing controls and improving removal procedures. This is the path taken by the Government to combat the diversion of the AME and medical tourism. It is these strategies, in organized channels, that undermine confidence in the fairness of our care system and against which we must fight. We fully support it. I also note, in the "Health" mission, the removal of the time indicator for processing marketing authorisations, due to the transfer of the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products – ANSM – to the social security budget in 2020. Maintaining this deadline around 500 days is a matter of importance to our country, and you know my commitment to seeing it shrink. It is significant of the decline in our country's attractiveness for manufacturers and represents a loss of chance for patients. Temporary authorisation devices – ATU – are only able to compensate for this situation. I come to the means of the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities". Appropriations for 2020 are 6.8% higher than last year. This increase is due in particular to the acceleration of the revalorisation of the activity premium, increased to EUR 100 per month at the level of the SMIC, due to the crisis of the yellow vests. The success of the activity bonus is to be welcomed. It encourages the resumption of employment and represents a real gain in purchasing power for our modest fellow citizens. It reflects the ever-renewed requirement to increase the use of rights, with a view to ensuring fair delivery. The inclusion in the finance laws of the appropriations necessary for the provision of this service is, moreover, a guarantee of budgetary seriousness and sincerity. He is to be welcomed, especially since this has not always been the case in other quinquennats, in particular with regard to this benefit. The increase in the use of the activity premium, with an increase of 52% in one year, is a good thing; However, it raises a question, with a view to recasting our social minima. Indeed, the future universal income of activity – RUA – aims in particular at the legitimate objective of reducing the non-use caused by the excessive complexity of the current system. It is also supposed to be in a constant envelope. Is this assumption of a recast of our ever-exploited social minimums credible if it is accompanied by an increase in the rate of recourse? Have you made any estimates? In particular, have you determined the gross cost of a massive increase in the recourse rate, knowing that better protection for the most vulnerable would have a purely accounting impact on other expenditure sectors. We will be particularly vigilant: this development must not result in a transfer of burdens to the departments. We also welcome the Government's proactive policy on the allowance for adults with disabilities and the upgrading of this benefit to 900 euros this month. You are aware of our reluctance to reconcile the AAH with other social minimums, in particular with regard to taking into account the spouse's income; We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. The ongoing dialogue on the AUA should take into account the specific situation of persons with disabilities. [[Michèle Peyron applauds]] Our group will vote in favour of the appropriations for these two missions, which reflect the particular effort of the State to support the activity as the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u25	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u26	The fall in the unemployment rate, which we all greeted yesterday, must not make us forget that the poverty rate is rising. According to INSEE, 14.7% of the population had an income level below the poverty line in 2018, up 0.6 percentage points from 2017. These figures should invite us to make the protection of the most vulnerable a priority, particularly in the construction of the budgets of the two missions we are considering today. Regarding the "Health" mission, we had the opportunity to express our regret at the 20% decrease in its appropriations, although we understood that this decrease reflects the transfer to the health insurance of the financing of Public Health France, the national agency of public health, and the ANSM. It seems to us important that prevention policy remains cross-cutting, despite these transfers to social security. We therefore welcome the amendment adopted in committee to create a yellow budget on the resources devoted to health prevention policy, whether they come from the state, social security, local authorities or complementary health insurance bodies: we hope that this choice will be confirmed today. Several positive points should also be highlighted, including the increase in the resources of the regional health agency – ARS – of Wallis-et-Futuna – I have a thought here for my colleague Sylvain Brial – and the additional €7 million allocated to protection against environmental and food risks. It would be difficult today not to say a word from the AME, enrolled in the Mission's 183 "Health Protection" program. Above all, I would like to acknowledge the detailed and detailed work of our draftsman, Caroline Fiat, who allows us to address this issue, too often fantasized, objectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u27	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u28	The Prime Minister's announcements are based on the recent IGAS and IGF report on AME; The Government has tabled several amendments on this mission. Madam Minister, I hope that this worrying haste is not a sign of contempt for the work of Parliament. We could have dealt quietly with this issue at last week's meeting of the Social Affairs Committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u30	...and these amendments fell into the night. This way of doing things goes beyond the limits: we cannot continue to work like this, when these are essential subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u31	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u32	We will have the opportunity to discuss these amendments in detail, but our group would like to reiterate strongly our demand for our system of care for vulnerable persons, whether they seek asylum or are in an irregular situation. I stress that asylum and immigration should not be confused. These two notions are totally different! The right to asylum is enshrined in the Constitution and requires us to provide assistance and care for these people. To receive them with dignity is a moral imperative and an ethical duty, to care for them, a humanitarian obligation. It is this requirement that must lead us to act against abuse and fraud, because, you are right, Madam Minister, we must fight fraud. Means exist: let us put in place, for example, requests for a pre-agreement. This is an effective means of control! This struggle is an essential condition for continuing to guarantee a dignified and humane welcome to those who hope for a faithful response from France to its history. In the same way, it seems to me that the Government has given a partial reading of the report of IGAS and IGF: people in precarious situations, who have serious health and social problems and who really need the AME, must be able to benefit from it, as you have said, Madam Minister. We had the opportunity to welcome the increase in funding for the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission and to discuss it at length in committee. First of all, we welcome the revalorisations of the activity premium and the AAH. However, we regret the underindexing of social benefits at 0.3%, which does not sufficiently defend the purchasing power of the most precarious. We support the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty, and in particular the method of contracting with departments for the prevention of dry outages of social assistance for children – ESA – whose funding depends on the number of young people involved in each department. We welcome the ninety-nine contracts signed so far. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Protection of the most vulnerable must be a priority. We should not forget that the Government has made equality between women and men the major national cause of the quinquennium. As it stands, the Mission's appropriations do not reflect this ambition, nor that which will have to be achieved at the end of the Grenelle against domestic violence. On this subject, the Liberties and Territories Group expects more than just a re-establishment of the budget at last year's level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u33	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u34	In part, I will take up the arguments of my fellow rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, Caroline Fiat, who has been able to explain with clarity and intelligence the stakes of the budget for the Health mission. In this one, the AME occupies a very large place. It finances the health care provided to foreigners in an irregular situation in France and benefits just over 300,000 people, which is very little. The France we love is a humanist France, which welcomes, protects and accompanies all people in distress. The AME incarnates it, for every person present on our soil deserves to be treated with dignity if he is ill: it is called "the human, first"! Studies show that the use of AME is not a reason for arrival in France; Worse, it is the unworthy reception conditions that make people sick. Let us not cover our face: this device does not only meet a requirement of humanism; It also represents a health security measure for the entire population. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, no microbe makes any difference between people. Whether you are French, German, Syrian, Turkish, Yemeni, Chilean or Malian, you get sick! A person who is not treated here will be able to pass on his illness to the people around him. Everyone understands that, because it is very pragmatic. So no matter what happens, no matter what the purpose of this aid is, it is absolutely necessary! It would be a moral mistake to leave a sick person in difficulty and it would be a political mistake to let diseases be transmitted by pure accounting or xenophobic vision. I come to a more political than technical point, which could finally resolve the stinking debate, which comes back every year, on the reduction or elimination of the AME. Indeed, the status of this benefit is particularly strange: while all health expenditure is covered by social security, the AME is a budget line of the State. And that makes a fundamental difference! The right to health is the right to life! And we have created social security to protect the right to health, because it must not be a budget line like any other. The AME cannot be entrusted to the State, it cannot be the subject of a debate by accountants and small shopkeepers on the savings to be achieved. We will never stop remembering it: we cannot impose savings when we talk about the health of people, of human beings! That's where the bastard hurts: here, we still have a discussion about whether to give more or less money to treat people. This debate seems acceptable to some people, simply because the beneficiaries are foreigners. In France, we hope that the AME will be included in the social security budget. The IGAS and IGF also advocate this idea in 2007 and 2010 reports, the National Council for AIDS and Viral Hepatitis – CNS – the National Council for Policies to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion – CNLE – the High Council for Equality between Women and Men – HCE – in 2017 and the Defender of Rights in a 2014 report on denial of care. Now, the Government wants to reconsider the rights provided for by the AME. From now on, it will take three months to be in an irregular situation – three months during which the sick will suffer and experience a marked worsening of their situation, which, in the end, will cost even more. The Government's announcement therefore has only one objective: to continue to run behind the far right, by marrying his theses. We don't want it! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Caroline Fiat, draftswoman for opinion, also applauds]] I will quote Mahatma Gandhi: "By contrasting hatred with hatred, we are only spreading it in the surface and in depth." The group La France insoumée will continue to support state medical aid and its financial resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u35	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u36	So we are already in the process of implementing the announcements of the Interministerial Committee on Immigration held yesterday! [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] Before addressing the subject that will be before us this morning, I would like to welcome the work done by the rapporteur for opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, Caroline Fiat. The right to asylum has already been so hardened! Minister, Secretary of State, the measures you are proposing today are unfair and shocking. They must not be trivialized. The introduction of a three-month waiting period before asylum seekers can access universal health protection, as well as the need for prior agreement on health insurance to carry out certain non-emergency acts within the framework of the AME, constitute, in our view, a challenge to the very philosophy of care, which is not refused. By the way, I recall the need for psychological support for these women and men, often with severe trauma. As if this were not enough, for asylum-seekers and undocumented persons, the duration of the right to state medical aid will be reduced by half, from twelve to six months. It is a challenge to one of the symbols of universal access to care, and the right of asylum itself. All this is part of an unworthy political maneuver. When it comes to pensions, the President of the Republic promises to be inflexible; When it comes to yielding to an iconic claim of the far right, the President makes all the honey, which is a way to give him reason. That says a lot! There is a very dangerous game, a slope on which you will never descend low enough. The cost of AME remains modest: it amounts to 0.4% of health insurance expenditure. Is it about distress that you have to save money? It is suggested, even though the investigation commissioned by IGAS does not demonstrate anything such, that there would be massive fraud, and that some migrants would choose to come to France for medical tourism. In 2018, 318,000 people benefited from the AME, and 12% of the illegally controlled people had access to the AME. The number of beneficiaries has been stable since 2015, and 22% of them are minors. On the other hand, several studies show that the health of its beneficiaries is much worse than that of the rest of the population. Restricting the right to health is a medical aberration, an economic and social nonsense, a danger to public health and an ethical mistake. The greatness of the Republic, the most elementary humanity, is to guarantee access to health for all, without distinction, which should be reflected primarily in the integration of the AME into universal medical coverage. The budget for the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission, despite an increase of EUR 1.6 billion, will not be able to eradicate the precariousness and poverty of the most vulnerable populations. Indeed, this increase in appropriations, like that of the previous finance bill, turns out to be an increase in trompe l'oeil masking economic measures. It is sufficient to look at the revalorisations of the activity premium and the AAH, which are once again reduced or neutralised, or even abolished, for some beneficiaries. Thus, the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities remains – alas! – below the poverty line. For couples, you insist on taking into account the spouse's income. However, the allowance for adults with disabilities must be regarded as an individual right. It is not a social minimum, but an autonomous allowance for persons who, because of their disability, cannot engage in a normal activity and earn sufficient income from their work. This unjust method of calculation deprives tens of thousands of AAH beneficiaries of their own resources, for the sole reason that they live with the person they love. A few days ago, the merger of the benefits of supplementation of resources and increase of the self-sustaining life took effect, to the benefit of the latter. The amount paid is aligned with the lowest of the two, which represents a dry loss for thousands of new beneficiaries. Finally, as you announce, with great reinforcement of communication, that equality between women and men is the main national cause of the quinquennium, the budget for the related programme is declining this year, after having been stable for three years. Since last Tuesday, in our country, women have been working for free. [[Caroline Fiat, draftswoman for opinion, applauds]] The scale of violence against women is a major challenge for our civilization. There's an emergency. We measure the scale of the project every day. In these struggles and in the accompaniment of daily life, associations play an essential role. It would have been necessary for this political ambition to correspond to a budgetary ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u37	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u38	I could give figures, say millions, billions. I have chosen to mention above all the concrete actions that the funds of the "Health" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" missions will be able to carry out. The two programs that make up the "Health" mission are in line with the National Health Strategy 2018-2022 and the "My Health 2022" plan. By allowing compensation for the victims of the Dépakine, by providing health assistance to populations in difficulty, mothers and children, especially during the first 1000 days, by promoting the prevention of chronic diseases and addictions, by supporting the actors of mental health prevention, as well as the coordination of measures to combat cancer and public health plans in the field of environmental health, by modernising the provision of care, Programme 204 will improve the health status of the population, reduce territorial and social inequalities in health, prevent and control health risks. The second programme of the "Health" mission is entitled "Health Protection". Its budget was allocated 80 per cent to the financing of State medical aid, the expenditure of which was very dynamic, which had prompted the Government to review its efficiency. The IGAS has issued a report confirming that this mechanism "sets first and foremost to an ethical and humanitarian principle, but also to an objective of public health and the relevance of expenditure", not without considering "the fight against fraud and abuse as a priority, which weaken the political acceptability of the scheme". There is no question of deleting the AME, as proposed by the opposition. There is also no question of reducing the basket of care. It is proposed to amend the conditions for access to universal disease protection for asylum seekers by introducing a three-month waiting period. In addition, it is envisaged that certain planned and non-emergency benefits for the major beneficiaries of the AME will be subject to a period of seniority. From now on, they will have to report in person to the Primary Health Insurance Fund to apply for assistance. In order to combat the non-use of this aid among fragile populations, our group will present an amendment providing that the applicant for the AME can be accompanied in his actions by a representative of social services or associations. A fairer system is not a system restricting rights, but a system controlling and suppressing abuses, while allowing those eligible to benefit from them. I would now like to refer to the challenges of the "Solidarity, Integration and Equal Opportunities" mission. The reduction of inequalities and the protection of vulnerable persons have been key elements of the policy implemented since the beginning of the mandate, particularly since the presentation of the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty by the President of the Republic a year ago. Again this year, the Mission's appropriations are increasing. Four major ambitions of the Government and the majority are reflected in this budget. The first is the revalorisation of work, especially for the most modest workers. More than 4 million households received the activity premium this year. More than 1 million beneficiaries are new recipients. This premium provides significant support for the purchasing power of low-income workers, and increases the attractiveness of the resumption of activity as well as of the increase in its working quota. The second ambition is the fight against poverty. The enhanced contract with the departments, with a view to supporting the deployment and effectiveness of the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty in the territories, allows for the introduction of various accompanying measures, aimed at combating the dry exits from the social assistance for children scheme, strengthening the socio-professional integration of the beneficiaries of the RSA, financing training for social workers, setting up the first social reception unconditional of proximity, developing referrals, setting up mixed maraudes, strengthening specialized prevention and implementing measures to prevent crime. In addition, €40 million is spent on social investment measures such as improving the living conditions of children in shelters, setting up a training plan for early childhood professionals as well as social pricing of canteens and breakfasts at school, and generalising budget advice points, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u39	Who pays?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u40	... are all necessary measures, if we remember that our country remains that of social determinism, where on average it takes six generations for the descendant of a very modest family to reach the average standard of living of the population. The third ambition is to build a truly inclusive society. Priority of the quinquennium, it affects 12 million French people affected by disability, as well as their families. The aim is to allow them to freely choose their way of life, by facilitating access to the common law mechanisms and by offering them other adapted to their needs. For example, more than EUR 12 billion of appropriations are entered, mainly to finance the allowance for adults with disabilities, which has received a second increase as planned since the beginning of the mandate, to reach EUR 900 per month. Many other support schemes are also planned, including the piloting of programme 157 and the facilitation of inclusive policies. The fourth and final ambition is the commitment to equality between women and men. The actions go beyond the framework of programme 137, which brings together the related appropriations for 2020: in fact, the inter-ministerial envelope dedicated to this great cause of the quinquennium reaches EUR 1 billion in 2020, twice as much as in 2019. The Government is committed to the information, prevention, support and care of women victims of violence, including the establishment of a day-care facility, listening facilities and a telephone hotline at number 3919, as well as the funding of departmental focal points. These concrete measures are numerous. They're ambitious. They're voluntaristic. Above all, they are necessary in order to curb poverty in our country in a sustainable manner, to improve work for all and to act for equality among all. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] That is the commitment of the Government! That is the commitment of the Members of the majority! Let us pursue together, with strength and conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u41	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u42	We are meeting this morning to discuss the "Health" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" budget missions. The "Health" mission, financed by the State budget and not by the social security budget, has a threefold objective. First, the 204 "Prevention, Health Security and Care Provision" program accounts for 18% of the funding. Its appropriations are down 20%, or about 25 million euros, due to the transfer of funding from the French Public Health Agency to social security. In this regard, I reiterate my wish, several times expressed to you, Madam Minister, that this development does not undermine the preventive policies carried out by Santé Publique France. In spite of your reassuring remarks, I would like to stress that there is still concern on this point. Program 183 brings together the other two objectives of the mission. I will not dwell on the compensation of victims of asbestos, and will concentrate on the financing of state medical aid, which causes a lot of ink to flow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u43	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u44	Madam Minister, I find it difficult to understand the following: even though we had to table our amendments before last Friday, we learned yesterday morning that the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs had just issued a report on the worrying functioning of state medical aid. His conclusions are final. Moreover, the Government had immediately drawn the consequences, which it was now up to Parliament to register. This promises us – from what I thought I understood – fine debates this morning, but what contempt for our assembly, whose role, since the beginning of the quinquennium, is reduced to that of a mere chamber of recording decisions taken by the government on a case-by-case basis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u45	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u46	It's becoming a habit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u47	We have already said this during the examination of the Social Security Financing Bill, and we find the same methods with regard to the State Medical Aid Report. Minister, you are appointed; We are elected by the people, even if the Government does not want to understand it. We have the right to be respected. I therefore wish once again that you give your services the instructions necessary for us to obtain, in time and in time, the documents essential for democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u48	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u49	That'd be the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u50	Let us hear: I do not want to speak about this delicate issue in a stigmatizing way for foreign people who benefit from the AME. I fully understand that not caring for sick people, while they are present in our national territory, would entail significant risks, which would then be difficult to control. You have explained this to us many times, and I share your concerns. But what worries me beyond everything, in this IGAS report, whose objectivity I cannot question, is the detection of atypies. The report tells us that "the most clear atypies concerning childbirth, chronic kidney failure, cancers and blood diseases". In other words, there is a migration for care which, according to the report, would not be marginal. These atypies would cost our country very much and would make a significant contribution to the explosion of AME's spending. I would simply remind you that for 2018, the finance law provided 881 million credits for the MEA alone. For 2019, nearly 935 million have been requested and will be renewed for next year. This is a stagnation, of course, but after an increase of more than 60% since 2013. The time allocated to me does not allow me to develop as much as I would have liked my remarks on the other programmes, I will now concentrate on disability, i.e. programme 157. With regard to the AAH, we look forward to its two-step increase, which brought it to 900 euros on 1 November 2019. But despite what you said last week before the Committee on Social Affairs and Mrs Cluzel's, we continue to denounce the lowering of the resource limit for couples. Indeed, the doubling of the ceiling for AAH recipients into couples has been transformed into an 89% increase in the amount of AAH for 2019. This increase will be reduced to 81% in 2020, as a result of a decree that again lowers the resource limit for couples eligible for this allowance. Such a measure helps to cancel the benefit of the AAH increase for the 270000 households concerned. This situation is all the less acceptable as you decided in 2018 not to revalue the amount of the AAH in proportion to inflation. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] In short, I keep it, your government takes back with one hand what it gives with the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u51	No one's fooled!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u52	These adjustments are a very bad signal at the time of the agreement on the universal income of activity in which you wish to integrate the allowance for adults with disabilities, which we strongly challenge. Finally, I would have liked to be able to talk to you about your poverty reduction strategy, which I find difficult to understand in terms of how it actually goes at the local level, whereas, according to an INSEE estimate, the poverty rate would rise by 0.6 percentage points in 2018, bringing it to 14.7% of the French population. We are far from the promise of the President of the Republic that, after one year of his term of office, no one should sleep on the street. I would also like to talk to you about the school inclusion of children with disabilities. We all know here that it creates special needs and, sometimes, major difficulties for institutions. Children cannot under any circumstances be held responsible, but we are all aware of examples of failure in our ridings because the situation of children has not been sufficiently taken into account in organizing their accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u53	It's not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is to them, however, that we must devote all our efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u55	Congratulation for these sensible words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u56	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u57	The two missions we are looking at today are essential, since they are intended to fund the national health and solidarity policy. The aim is therefore to ensure consistency between the appropriations and the provisions of the draft law on the financing of social security. With regard to the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities", we are pleased that the appropriations are being increased for the third year in a row. This increase of almost €1.6 billion is in line with the actions taken by the Government and the majority over the past two and a half years, actions aimed at persevering and deepening measures of justice, equity and social and territorial inclusion. In concrete terms, this results in an increase in the activity premium, the maximum amount of which has increased by 90 euros since 1 January 2019, while the scope of the beneficiaries was extended. This mechanism is effective and its success is undeniable. These appropriations also approve the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities, which was increased to 900 euros per month on 1 November last year; the deployment of the national poverty reduction strategy, the initial provisions of which are beginning to enter into force; Finally, the consolidation of funding for measures to promote equality between women and men. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement fully supports these guidelines for the benefit of our most fragile citizens. With regard to the "Health" mission, I will focus on what constitutes the very essence of its two programmes: prevention on the one hand, and the question of AME on the other. As far as prevention is concerned, our group welcomes the fact that this year's 204 programme is accompanied by a cross-cutting policy document which finally makes it possible to provide an overview of ministerial funding which contributes to prevention policy in the field of health. This budgetary orange, which responds to an express request from several groups, including MODEM, demonstrates the usefulness of the trans-Partisan parliamentary initiatives and work carried out over the past two years on the issue of prevention. In order to continue this dynamic, this year we will propose to support this effort of visibility of the means allocated to prevention, in particular for local and regional authorities and complementary health insurance bodies. This budgetary yellow will help to dispel the still too great obscurities in the financing of the national preventive policy. We thank you in advance, Madam Minister, for your favourable opinion on this amendment. As for our migration policy, state medical aid, for irregular immigrants, and PUMA, for asylum seekers, stir up passions, everyone will have understood, according to the philosophical conceptions of each of our families of political thought. However, even more so than in any other debate, we need to know why we should keep it. First of all, we would like to commend the maintenance of the financial resources necessary for this noble and essential mission, which meets humanitarian and public health objectives, and honours our country. The measures announced by the Government, in the light of the IGAS and IGF reports, respond in a balanced and balanced manner to identified problems. Weighted, as the current system, guaranteeing the level of care basket for AME beneficiaries, remains unchanged. They will always be able to benefit from access to care for the most urgent situations. Madam Minister, thank you! Balanced, since the provisions proposed by the Government, aimed at aligning the UPMA mechanism with the common law, will enable the health insurance funds to ensure that certain care provided to beneficiaries is in line with their needs. All these measures therefore do not in any way call into question the humanist philosophy of these aids. They are not of an accounting nature, but are aimed only at controlling migration for non-emergency medical reasons, thus combating abuse and fraud. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The MODEM Group will therefore vote without any reservation on the appropriations for these two missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u58	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u59	I have listened well to your various speeches, and the presentation of the budget appropriations that I am about to make before you should answer your questions and remarks. The two missions we are looking at this morning express the same choice: the priority given to the most fragile. The programmes of these two missions reflect the Government's commitments to inclusion, protection of vulnerable persons and the fight against inequality. The appropriations presented in the Solidarity Mission are up 8 per cent compared to the initial appropriations approved in the Finance Act for 2019, i.e. almost 1.8 billion additional appropriations to implement policies in favour of poor workers, dependent persons and those with disabilities, as well as to combat inequalities and violence against women. The national strategy to prevent and combat poverty, presented by the President of the Republic on 13 September 2018, is accompanied by a budget of €8.5 billion for the entire quinquennium. This strategy has been implemented since 2019 and is based on new forms of public action: contracting between the state and departmental councils. Important, emblematic and concrete preventive measures have been launched: the deployment of 150 budget advisory points; social pricing of canteens, allowing balanced meals to be offered at less than 1 euro; the organisation of breakfasts at school for 37,000 pupils, then 100,000 or even 200000, in order to support students from disadvantaged families in the city's priority areas. Thus, one year after its launch, the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty presents concrete achievements in our territories. In 2020, 219 million funds from programme 304 will be allocated for the implementation of the national strategy for the prevention and fight against poverty; An envelope of 175 million, an increase of 40 million compared to 2019, will be devoted to the second year of contracting with the departments. Moreover, since 1 January 2019, the activity premium has been increased by €90 at SMIC level in the context of economic and social emergency measures. This reform allows for an increase in the average amount of activity premium paid, but also for the granting of the activity premium to many households which become eligible for it. In one year, the number of recipients increased by 52%, or 1.25 million new beneficiaries of the premium in 2019. Combined with the rise of the SMIC, it now offers a monthly purchasing power gain of up to 100 euros for a paid worker at the SMIC. The activity premium credits included in the 2020 Finance Bill amount to $9.5 billion, an increase of $700 million. With regard to policies aimed at the autonomy of persons with disabilities, programme 157 is an essential lever, beyond inclusion in the ordinary environment of life, and especially in working life. In this programme, the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities, aimed at combating poverty among those furthest from the labour market, is a major presidential commitment. The amount of the benefit was thus increased to 860 euros per month as of November 1, 2018, and was re-aligned in November 2019 to an amount of 900 euros per month for a full-rate AHA. This allowance is paid to 1.2 million households and represents an unprecedented commitment to the purchasing power of people because of their disability. For 2020, the allocation for the AAH amounts to 10.6 billion, an increase of EUR 300 million. Finally, the policy of equality between women and men has been established as a major national cause of the quinquennium. The year 2020 will be the year of the implementation of the measures developed within the framework of the Grenelle against domestic violence opened on 3 September 2019 by the Prime Minister, whose announcements are expected by 25 November. Beyond the financial means supporting the actions to be undertaken, this general mobilisation aims at an ambitious transformation of professional practices and the provision of a range of operational tools adapted to the protection of victims and their children. I come to the "Health" mission. The appropriations presented in this mission represent only part of the funds that the public authorities devote to health policy, which are mainly discussed within the framework of the PLFSS. Like the funding from the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission, the Health Mission reflects a strong social and health ambition. In 2020, the 204 programme will have just over EUR 200 million, of which one third will be dedicated to the financing of the National Cancer Institute – INCA – and the National Agency for Health Safety of Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES. The expenses of compensation for the victims of the Dépakine, also financed by this programme, will be subject to structural adjustments in order to speed up the processing of cases. The compensation scheme, which is managed by ONIAM, has seen a gradual increase due to the complexity of the legal and medical issues raised during the examination of the files. Following the unanimous vote on the resolution presented by your Special Rapporteur, Véronique Louwagie, I am very pleased to present to you today an amendment to simplify the compensation scheme. The second programme of the mission, programme 183, is devoted mainly to State medical assistance. The Government is committed to the main principles that underpin our policy of access to the care and rights of migrants today. It is not possible to question them. State medical aid and the right to health insurance for asylum-seekers are essential, of course for humanitarian and public health reasons, but also for reasons of budgetary control: we know that late treatment of a disease is systematically more expensive than timely treatment by city medicine. We do not wish to introduce measures that would undermine this logic, such as the reduction of the basket of care or the financial participation of insured persons in the AME. Contrary to what some say, such measures would only have the effect of deteriorating the health of the persons concerned, congesting emergency services and increasing the total cost of care provided. We need to be exemplary in adapting our devices in order to intervene as effectively as possible, but we also need to be exemplary in the fight against the diversion of some of them. The expenditure associated with the AME sometimes gives rise to mistrust of the system and even of the fantasies that are difficult to deconstruct. To restore confidence, our efforts must focus on improving the efficiency of arrangements for the care of migrants. That is why Gérald Darmanin and I have entrusted a mission on state medical aid and emergency care to the general inspections of our respective ministries. After careful consideration of the mission's findings, the Government proposes several amendments, which were announced yesterday at the Interministerial Committee on Immigration and Integration. We will take the time to debate each of them in a moment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The funds allocated to the "Health" mission and the "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities" mission are essential to the conduct of our policies for the inclusion and protection of the most vulnerable. I invite you to adopt them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u60	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the length of questions, such as answers, is limited to two minutes. Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u61	My question concerns the vaccination policy, particularly with regard to papillomavirus. During the review of the PLFSS for 2019, we adopted, at first reading, a strong incentive for vaccination of young girls and boys. In a new reading, the extension of vaccination to young boys had been abolished on the grounds that the High Health Authority (HAS) was working on the subject. On 30 October, HAS issued an opinion recommending the vaccination of young boys aged 11-14, with a possible catch-up for those aged 15-19. This vaccination would protect both boys and girls whose immunization coverage is still low and too low. During the review of the PLFSS this year, the committee adopted an amendment which I tabled aimed at experimenting with vaccination for boys; but it was not adopted at the meeting. Since the HAS has issued a favourable opinion, what do you intend to do to allow young boys to be vaccinated as soon as possible? I have a second question, which concerns the Dépakine. You are taking proactive action to support the victims – I also welcome the involvement of my colleague Véronique Louwagie in this area. Can you take stock of the compensation and specify the measures you are considering to further improve the scheme?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u62	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u63	Vaccination against human papillomaviruses is now recommended in young girls and men who have sex with men to prevent cancers of the cervix, vulva, vagina and anal canal. Combined with cervical cancer screening, it is the best strategy to fight this cancer, which still causes nearly 1000 deaths per year in France. But, as we now know, papillomaviruses are also involved in the occurrence of cancers that do not only affect gay women or men, such as cancers in the ORL – oto-rhino-laryngyngeal sphere. For example, almost 25% of cancers caused by papilloma viruses occur in men. As you pointed out, from 30 October to 27 November, the HAS submits to public consultation a draft recommendation for an extended vaccination for all boys aged 11 to 14, already practised in many countries. All contributions will then be analysed and discussed by the members of the Technical Committee on Immunization, who will take them into account in finalizing the recommendation. I hope that it can be published before the end of the year so that we change the vaccination schedule to make boys a target of vaccination against human papillomaviruses. With regard to the Dépakine, in addition to legislation, measures were being taken to facilitate access to the compensation scheme for measures. First, we want to simplify the compensation files. Today, the list of documents that can be requested by experts is not defined, which creates uncertainty and may force applicants to collect too many documents. Work is currently under way to identify precisely the documents that are useful to the experts in the processing of applications.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u64	Thank you, Minister. We will have an opportunity to return, but I am obliged to ensure that the time allotted is respected. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u65	The review of the "Health" mission takes on particular importance since it takes place in the aftermath of the Prime Minister's announcements on migration policy, which draw in particular the consequences of the report of the IGAS and the IGF on state medical aid. I wish to express myself, in my personal capacity, as a doctor, on the measures taken by the Government in this regard. First of all, the rather hasty approach, which involves introducing important measures at the heart of the finance bill, does not allow the issue to be addressed calmly. We are hardly aware of the report on which you are relying to reform the AME and PUMA arrangements, which deprives parliamentarians that we are in any way backwards. In substance, you are making the fight against fraud and abuse a priority, and that is understood. However, in order to avoid the misuse of PUMA, you propose to reduce from twelve to six months the period during which rights are maintained after the expiry of a residence permit or a rejection of the asylum application. Have you assessed the impact of such a measure? Is there a risk of delaying care on already submerged emergency services? You claim to want to improve effective access to care for migrants. That seems to me to be necessary for us to be able to welcome these vulnerable people with dignity. But what are you proposing in practice? What do you mean when you talk about health care for first-time arrivals? To what extent do you intend to strengthen the resources allocated to health care access permanences – PASS – which are often the entry point for migrants, while late amendments foresee a substantial reduction in the AME budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u66	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u67	I repeat, our objective is to be as exemplary in access to care as it is in the fight against the diversion of care devices. We therefore wish to strengthen the "go-to" approach of vulnerable migrants to make access to care a reality for them. The AME is only requested in 12% of cases in the first year following arrival in our territory. This figure shows that the devices are in fact not used very much. We will therefore organize a "health appointment" for first-time arrivals, which will be a consultation of prevention, screening and guidance in the care system. An experiment has just been launched in Rennes to support the organization of such appointments by health professionals in the city. It provides for logistical support to these professionals, access to interpreters and compensation for consultation adapted to the time spent. We have increased and will continue to increase allocations to PSSAs, which are often the orientation point for migrants. We are very committed to the management of psycho-trauma related to migration routes. In 2018, one third of the precarious mobile psychiatry teams had already developed partnerships with reception centres for asylum seekers – CADA. These structures, which play a role in the care of psychiatric disorders and in the guidance of vulnerable groups, as well as in counselling and training of social professionals, including reception and accommodation facilities for migrants, will therefore be deployed. Since this year, we have also been more actively supporting associations specializing in the management of psychological disorders among migrants. Finally, with regard to the health risks you point out, you should be aware that urgent care is provided upon the arrival of a migrant person in the territory. These include the treatment of infectious diseases, all care related to pregnancy and childbirth, as well as neonatology care. In addition, the waiting period does not apply to minor children. We won't let anyone perish because he doesn't have the right papers. We maintain the main principles of access to care arrangements, be it state medical aid for illegal aliens or universal disease protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u68	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u69	In its last report, the Abbé Pierre Foundation noted that 26 per cent of the homeless people born in France had gone through social assistance for children. We also know that 46 per cent of young people who have been protected and placed in foster structures or families during their young years return to their families at 18 years of age, as care often ends. By putting an end to the accompaniment, these young people, who are nevertheless fragile, deprived of family, relational, psychological, financial or social resources, are asked to be more autonomous and independent than any other young person. It is a nonsense to protect these young people from their families until they are 18 years old and no longer do so at the age of 18 and one day, because they do not have to offer them a young adult contract or an accompaniment worthy of the name. Within the appropriations for the strategy to prevent and combat child and youth poverty, a budget of EUR 175 million is allocated for contracting with the departments. One of the objectives of this strategy is to combat dry exits from ESA. A number of ambitious tools are planned to achieve this: maintaining a link with young people leaving ESA, access to stable housing and adequate financial resources for their project, as well as the right to test in their training course and coverage of care. I reviewed the contract update in my department for the last half of 2019. The amount negotiated between the State and the department corresponding to this objective is EUR 27080, financed equally by the State and the department. With this sum, it is only fourteen young people in Nivernais who will be able to receive support, the cost of which is estimated at EUR 2000 per year, i.e. just under 20% of the young people eligible for it. Of the EUR 175 million planned for the contract, what amount will be actually allocated to the fight against ESA's dry exits? How many young people will actually be accompanied? How will it be ensured that all eligible young people benefit from it? On the other hand, contrary to one of the objectives assigned to it, contracting does not provide a financial response to young people. Is it planned, in the current reflection, to open the universal income of activity to young people leaving ESA from the age of 18?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u70	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u71	Of the €175 million allocated to the inter-ministerial strategy to prevent and combat poverty, €12 million is dedicated to preventing the dry exits of young people by their majority: €10 million is directly directed towards contracting between the state and the departments and €2 million is allocated to experimenting with accompanying projects – I am thinking of a fund launched with the National Union for Youth Housing and intended to provide financial assistance to reduce the remaining burden for young people in the homes of young workers or in social residence. The purpose of the contract is therefore to strengthen the support of the young people concerned, for an amount of EUR 2000 per young person. In your department, a diagnosis shared between the department and the state has established the number of young people who will be 18 years of age in the year; a re-evaluation is planned for 2020 and 2021. It is on the basis of the figures provided by the departments that we will be able to adapt the scheme for the following years, the objective being a rise in support and a decrease in the dry exits of young people from ESA, who, as you said, are sometimes future homeless. We must reduce this inequality of destiny. With regard to the RUA, a consultation is currently being conducted within the framework of a specific college dedicated to this issue of young people, whose aim is to define the scope of this future service, its mode of governance and its financing. We pay particular attention to young people in precarious situations. Will the RUA be intended for all of them? Will it be reserved for young people who have received social assistance for children? It is up to all the actors involved in this consultation to determine this. I will conclude by recalling that Adrien Taquet launched last October the Child Prevention and Protection Strategy, which includes complementary measures for young people from ESA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u72	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u73	At the time of the Grenelle against domestic violence and while equality between women and men has been established as a major cause of the quinquennium, I am surprised that the budget for programme 137 "Equality between women and men" is not on the increase. On the contrary, Action 23 "Support for the gender equality programme" shows a slight decline. However, we could have expected a substantial budgetary effort. You are proposing to introduce a gender-sensitive budget, but where are the funds to meet the major challenges of equality between women and men? The expectations of the associations that support this cause on a daily basis are strong. This is further reflected, if necessary, in the White Paper of the National Assembly's delegation to women's rights on combating domestic violence presented yesterday. While associations have lost nearly a third of their credits in recent years, they could reasonably expect an additional effort from the State. Ms. Schiappa had assured, on a national radio station at the beginning of the quinquennium, that the associations would not lose a euro. However, they lost 700000 last year and did not recover any of them this year. I also note that the appropriations for measures to combat gender-based and sexual violence are down by €300,000, although they should be increased, in order to finance the deployment of the serious danger telephone and the anti-approach bracelet, which the Republicans have put on the agenda. We expect much greater budgetary efforts, commensurate with the Government's ambitions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, when are you going to give the resources that associations, especially family planning and anti-prostitution associations and women's and family rights information centres – CDIFF – need so much to support women on a daily basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u74	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u75	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u76	As you know, honourable Member, equality between women and men is the great cause of the quinquennium. I am convinced that better consideration of gender inequalities and the fight against violence against women will be achieved through a proactive inter-ministerial policy. That is what the Government wants to do. These commitments cannot be implemented through a single budget line. It is in reality in each of our public policies that we decline this commitment and voluntarism. A Grenelle was launched on this issue; It will deliver its conclusions on 25 November, an international day to combat violence against women, and will lead to a five-year strategy to combat domestic violence covering the period 2020-2025. This Grenelle is deployed in all regions, including overseas, with more than 150 local Grenelle organized. It is premature to specify at this stage the amount of appropriations to be mobilised within the various budgetary programmes concerned. However, several measures have already been announced: the creation, in 2019, in programme 137 "Equality between women and men", of the Catherine Fund against Femicides, which will be endowed with one million euros for territorial actions; the creation of 1,000 new shelters and temporary accommodation for women victims of violence; the installation of the electronic bracelet anti-approximation, which is dear to you. These measures will be complemented by proposals resulting from the work undertaken with all the stakeholders involved in the various working groups and local initiatives. Beyond the financial means supporting the actions to be implemented, this general mobilisation aims at an ambitious transformation of professional practices, in all fields, and at providing actors with a range of operational tools adapted to better protect victims and their children. Each of our ministries is now mobilized; This will result in a proactive policy within the framework of this major five-year plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u77	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u78	With the aging of the population, medical desertification and the desire to shift to outpatient medicine, Liberal nurses are now at the forefront of current health issues. They are involved in reducing the congestion of emergency services and often appear to be the last health actors present in the heart of medical deserts. However, these 120,000 professionals are among those left behind in the Government's health policy. Indeed, the Decree of Acts and Exercise has not been re-aligned since 2002. One injection is paid 7 euros and one dressing 8,80 euros, while some common acts are not even listed in the nomenclature. As for lump sum travel allowances, they have only been raised by 50 cents in 15 years while fuel prices continue to rise. Since amendment 6 to the National Nursing Convention, signed on 29 March, these kilometric allowances have now been capped. Imposed without any consultation and ignoring the alarm bells drawn many times by the representatives of the profession, the plan "my health 2022" will help to aggravate a situation which has already been considered a concern. Liberal nurses are now competing with other health professionals, whether they are pharmacists, caregivers, or medical assistants. The creation of nursing status in advanced practice gave rise to hope for a better recognition of the profession, but the disappointment of the first graduates met the expectations raised. After a minimum of three years and a further two years of university education, the proposed salary is barely higher than the first step of nursing status. The ultimate blow to Liberal nurses: the future pension reform. Their incomes will decrease mechanically by 10% and nothing is expected to be compensated. The abolition of the autonomous pension fund will also result in the dispossession of its reserves, estimated at €3 billion. The PLF for 2020 seems far removed from the expectations of the liberal nurses and in the face of the urgency of this situation, we ask you what concrete measures you are considering in order to guarantee the attractiveness of this profession, so indispensable to our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u79	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u80	We had this discussion during the review of the PLFSS, Mr. MP, because the subject is more relevant than in the "Health" mission. I would nevertheless like to answer you, because it is very important to talk about the liberal nurses, who are at the heart of our system, who move to the homes of the patients, who are rightly loved by the French...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u81	And deputies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u82	...and show a commitment and dedication recognized by all. I sincerely believe that the nursing profession must be valued. That is why we have created the status of advanced nurse, which allows them to evolve in their careers and which, with ad hoc funding, will allow them to be paid for their new skills. These advanced practice nurses will practice all fields of medicine. Although the first courses concern chronic diseases, others will follow, particularly in the areas of psychiatry and emergency medicine. We then wanted to expand the immunization skills of liberal nurses. The latter, contrary to what you support, are not competing with other healthcare professionals. First, they are paid at exactly the same level as pharmacists or midwives for an act of vaccination. They are then allowed, since 2019, to carry out the first influenza vaccination, an act that they have not, until now, had access to. We are therefore expanding their skills to recognize their added value, knowing that these nurses will benefit from ad hoc funding when vaccination takes place in patients' homes. Finally, we wanted to organize the training of nurses in nurses, with access to studies now being provided by Parcoursup. Paying boxes for the preparation of contests will no longer be necessary. We will give the graduates a degree of license and then a master's degree. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As coordinating nurses, they play an immense role in the territorial health professional communities. They are at the heart of the "My Health 2022" plan. They will have the opportunity to evolve in their careers. They are a pillar of our health care system. Finally, I give a great deal of time to negotiate with this profession, particularly so that nurses are not penalized by pension reform: I am committed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we are done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u84	I call the funds of the "Health" mission, listed in Statement B. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1397.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u85	The medical aid of the State of Common Law, established on 1 January 2000, is intended to ensure the protection of the health of illegal immigrants in France. In ten years, the amount allocated to this aid has increased by 47%. It is certainly necessary to treat foreigners when they are in a state of absolute emergency; and no one calls into question the need for state medical assistance when it comes to preventing epidemics or serious diseases such as tuberculosis, measles or hepatitis B. However, this aid is granted to an increasing number of people, representing an ever greater cost to the State and thus to taxpayers. The recent IGAS report is very clear: the French system is one of the most generous in the European Union and the hypothesis of a migration for care is no longer a marginal phenomenon. It is therefore regrettable that you have decided not to change the basket of care covered by state medical aid and not to turn it into emergency medical aid – just as it seems to me regrettable that you have not chosen to introduce a financial contribution from the beneficiaries, as recommended by IGAS itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u87	Like you, Mrs Ménard, I believe it is essential to reduce the amount of public funding that we allocate to state medical aid – I have had the opportunity to say this in the gallery this morning as in previous years. I believe, however, that this development must take place in parallel with a fundamental reform of the AME and I will propose in a few moments an amendment to transform it into emergency aid. Without this reform, we cannot envisage a EUR 500 million reduction in appropriations, as you are proposing. Because in the absence of a truly profound reform of the AME, this measure would lead to underbudgeting of expenditure and a lack of budgetary sincerity, which we denounce every year. I would also like to recall the resumption of the increase in the number of AME beneficiaries and the average cost of benefits per beneficiary. I therefore call on you, Mrs Ménard, to withdraw your amendment and to vote in favour of the one I will defend earlier, providing for the conversion of state medical aid into emergency aid, which would lead to a reduction in appropriations. But it is impossible, I repeat, to envisage only a reduction in appropriations without this transformation of the AME, because we would therefore find ourselves in a situation of underbudgeting. As the committee has not examined this amendment, I give it an unfavorable opinion on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u89	You are proposing a reduction of EUR 500 million in appropriations to the 183 "Health protection" programme, without any further compensation. Such a measure would, of course, lead to underbudgeting, which would be contrary to the principle of budgetary sincerity. Moreover, this measure would not change the total expenditure of public administrations, since it would become a State debt to social security. As I have already said, I am extremely committed to state medical aid, for humanitarian, health and economic reasons. The Government therefore chooses to preserve this mechanism while firmly fighting abuses and abuses: that is the meaning of the amendments that we have tabled. Finally, contrary to what you say, the IGAS report does not recommend the introduction of a stamp duty for beneficiaries; On the contrary, he opposes it. Similarly, it is not true that the AME is financed at the expense of the policy of access to care in our territory. I would remind you, Mrs Ménard, that the Government is implementing structural reforms to promote access to care and to combat medical deserts. I am referring to the tools we create to promote the facilities, but I will not develop them further since everything is detailed in the PLFSS. For all these reasons, the Government is against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u90	Mrs Caroline Fiat, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u91	I am, of course, quite opposed to this amendment, both outrageous and irresponsible. Deleting half of the AME credits from a pen stroke makes no sense. I recall, as I had the opportunity to do in my statement this morning, that all actors on the ground, as well as the Academy of Medicine, the Defender of Rights, the IGAS and the IGF, unanimously consider that it is imperative to maintain a system of care for migrants that goes beyond the mere handling of emergencies. The approximately 900 million euros allocated to the AME are not wasted. This is a public health investment that benefits the entire population and helps not to overburden our hospitals even more – they don't need it, nobody here will say otherwise. The present amendment is all the more curious because its summary statement deals in part with the question of the medical deserts suffered by the French, which would be forced to sacrifice themselves for the benefit of illegal migrants. However, its scheme does not intend to reallocate the 500 million that has been abolished to the programme 204 "Prevention, health security and provision of care". I invite you, my dear colleague, to read the report for opinion which I have delivered on this mission. He provided an update on the ideas he had received about AME. I think you'll learn a lot! The Committee on Social Affairs has not considered the amendment. Personally, I give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u92	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u93	This discussion on the AME cannot leave indifferent an elected Mayotte who is concerned both with the interests of his Maori compatriots and with the protection of the state budget. For several days, the expression "a concern for transparency" has often come back in our debates. In the name of transparency, Madam Minister, I would like to see a clear identification in Mayotte of what is involved in the financing of medical procedures in general and what should be more specifically the responsibility of the AME. We are looking at the third budget of the legislature, and it is time to shed light on that. The governments – not just yours, but those who have succeeded each other for years – have decided to grant Mayotte an operating allowance for the hospital. However, with this funding, you are in fact funding care that is the responsibility of the AME. I am not telling you that the AME should be abolished or maintained, but I would like, in the name of transparency, to see national representation better informed of the reality of the budget cost of AME, a mechanism to which Mayotte should be included. We will see, therefore, that the 200 million exceptional funds paid to Mayotte provide a very large amount of funding for the care that is the responsibility of the AME. I would like you to inform the National Assembly on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u95	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u96	I fully agree with you, Madam Special Rapporteur, but I maintain my amendment. As you have understood, this is an appeal amendment, which aims at alerting the Government to permanent inflation – we see it every year – of AME's credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u97	You're really gonna have to read my report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u98	There is indeed a need for a substantive reform of the AME; I'm quite aware of that. As for the IGAS and IGF report that has just been published, I do not think I have read it in a misguided way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u99	It's mine you have to read!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u100	As the deadlines are very short, we may not yet have all the elements. It is a pity that this report was not circulated before the discussion of the Health mission in the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u101	Yes, yes, we've had it since the day before yesterday...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u102	I agree with the principle of substantive reform. However, this is not what the Government is advocating, since you have excluded, Madam Minister, from touching the AME's basket of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u103	I give you the floor again, Mrs Ménard, to support Amendment No 1405.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u104	It is a symbol that must be touched: the AME contributes to the image of a French eldorado for foreigners who arrive in our country and remain in an irregular situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u105	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u106	From 2008 to 2018, the number of illegal aliens benefiting from the AME increased from over 200000 to over 318000. In order to prevent caricatures, I repeat that France must of course provide care to those who need it in the event of a vital emergency. But can you tell me if those 318,000 people were really in this case? Health is not free for French people, since everyone contributes to it through levies or taxes. There is no reason why it should not go the same way for people in an irregular situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u107	They're also paying taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u108	Why not re-establish the 30 euro entry fee that was introduced in 2011? Its introduction had led – it is documented – to a slowdown in the growth of the AME's total cost. Conversely, a rebound was observed immediately after its abolition, as this cost increased by 20% between 2012 and 2013. Moreover, why not look at what is happening in our European neighbours? In the United Kingdom, non-emergency care is charged at 150% of the cost of the service rendered. Sweden and Spain, for their part, apply a moderator's ticket – the first for consultations and medicines, the second only for medicines. It would be time to harmonize these practices, in order to avoid the medical tourism that is denounced even in the ranks of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u109	I suppose the opinions of the Commission and the Government are unfavourable?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u110	I would like to take the floor at length, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u111	Me too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u112	I naturally give you the floor to one and the other. However, we will have other opportunities to evoke the AME, I have the foreknowledge...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u113	That's right, Mr. President. This is an important debate, as the current situation shows. I can only regret once again, Madam Minister, the lateness of the IGAS and IGF reports. We are working under conditions that are not very favourable. You are proposing, Mrs Ménard, to reduce the AME's appropriations by EUR 100 million: we cannot reduce the appropriations in this way, as I said in connection with the previous amendment. On the other hand, I fully agree with you that we must intervene to make the system sustainable – it is no longer today – and acceptable to our citizens. You mentioned the stamp duty. We will have an opportunity to discuss it, since I have tabled an amendment to restore it. At this stage, I invite you to withdraw your amendment and to support my own. They aim to reform the AME's system in depth, which would become a genuine emergency aid. The committee did not consider the amendment. Personally, I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u114	Perhaps you can answer my question, Madam Special Rapporteur, since the minister does not?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u115	You have questioned the minister, I will not allow myself to answer in her place...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u116	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u117	I will reply to the question of Mayotte later, when we debate another amendment. For now, I'm answering Mrs. Ménard. The introduction of the stamp duty was decided in 2010 against the opinion of IGAS and IGF, expressed in a previous report, whose conclusions were indeed similar to those of the report just submitted. This stamp duty is a financial contribution by persons in an irregular situation to the AME. Its introduction had led to a decrease in the use of AME and a marked increase in the number of emergency crossings. In the end, the cost was much higher, because the diseases were more serious. In other words, a delay in taking over results in a budgetary drift for the State. It is absolutely essential to encourage the use of care, so that people can take care of themselves quickly, before it costs too much. You compared, Mrs Ménard, the care available to AME beneficiaries and those available to French nationals covered by PUMA. I would like to point out that the AME's basket of care is reduced in relation to that of health insurance to which we are all entitled here. Moreover, the total annual expenditure of a beneficiary of the AME is less than the total annual expenditure of a French person who uses health insurance. This is proof that the AME's basket of care is reduced and that the use of the care of its beneficiaries is lower. There is indeed a need to combat fraud and abuses, which are not necessarily committed by migrants, some coming to France for treatment before leaving home. In this case, we are talking about the AME, which people in an irregular situation really need. The measure you propose would reduce the use of care and make it worse. I am therefore formally opposed to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u118	We come to Amendment No. 2180 of the Government. On this amendment, I have before me a request for a public vote by the Socialist and Related Group, the Group of the Green Left and the Group of the European Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The minister has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u119	The Government is submitting several amendments to you, which constitute a coherent package. Amendment No 2155 concerns the fight against fraud and abuse relating to the AME. The first objective is to establish a pre-agreement procedure for certain care received by AME recipients. This advance agreement will be limited to both scheduled and non-emergency care. These include cataract surgery, implantation of knee or hip prostheses, and certain physiotherapy. Secondly, the amendment seeks to clarify the applicable law, stating that it is necessary to be in an irregular situation for three months in order to benefit from the AME. This will not change anything for people entering France irregularly, but it will change things for holders of a tourist visa, as the three-month period, which is already applicable to them, will now begin upon expiry of their visa. Finally, the amendment tends to strengthen the control of residence in France. AME applications must be submitted by the persons concerned in person to a primary health insurance fund or, by way of derogation, through the hospital or a health care facility. The aim is to avoid fraudulent requests, transmitted by mail, from people who are not on French territory. Amendment No 2156 concerns asylum seekers. It aims to introduce a three-month waiting period for their access to PUMA. At the moment, I would like to point out that asylum seekers benefit from derogations, which are more favourable than those applied to other insured persons. They may be insured as soon as the application for asylum has been lodged, whereas a French or a foreign national in a regular situation who is not engaged in a professional activity is subject to a waiting period of three months. The Government shall, by decree, align their conditions of access with those of other insured persons. The amendment provides that asylum seekers will have access to urgent care during this three-month period. This will include vital hospital care, the treatment of infectious diseases and care for pregnant women and newborns. I would point out that the waiting period will not apply to minors. The purpose of this amendment, No. 2180, is to draw the budgetary consequences of the measures I have just detailed, which in fact justifies their place in the finance bill. These measures have an upward and downward impact on the funding of the AME and Emergency Care Program 183. The increase is due to the shift of some PUMA beneficiaries to AME and urgent care. The decline is related to the AME's anti-fraud and anti-debt measures. In total, the amendment tends to reduce the appropriations for programme 183 by EUR 15 million, specifically for action 02 "State medical aid". We combine these measures with a strengthening of access-to-care initiatives. I would like to make it clear once again that we are not questioning the main principles of access to care; we act in accordance with two imperatives: the system must be adapted to the health challenges of migrants, with a view to humanity and public health; We must be accountable, to ensure confidence in the system and its sustainability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u120	I hope you don't believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u122	The committee did not consider this amendment, since it was tabled last night or in the night, like other government amendments. You are proposing, Madam Minister, a reduction of EUR 15 million in the AME's appropriations resulting from the restrictive measures put forward by the Government. The AME's appropriations, I would remind you, amount to 934 million. The drop you are proposing is therefore very small. I appreciate the Government's desire to reduce fraud at the AME – all of us can only agree with it on this – and to be more severe about the conditions for access to this health coverage, but the mechanisms you have chosen are far from being a fundamental reform of the system. We can be pleased with the direction you are taking, but the proposed measures are not sufficient. In addition, you are considering a reduction in the programme's appropriations while there is an under-budgeting of urgent care, since the flat-rate allocation of EUR 40 million does not at all allow hospitals to meet the demand for urgent care. In other words, hospitals support urgent care from the social security budget which is not covered by this allocation. On the one hand, the proposed reduction in appropriations is very insufficient. On the other hand, it runs counter to the efforts of budgetary sincerity. Personally, I express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment, because we must carry out a much deeper reform of the AME.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u123	The Minister referred to the whole issue, which is a very good thing. Consideration of this amendment can therefore be an opportunity for everyone to speak, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore be inclined to grant the floor overly liberally. The counterpart is that we will then try to be faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u124	We need to talk about Lyme disease!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u125	Mrs Caroline Fiat, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u126	The amendment was tabled yesterday at 23.00. But you will not make anyone believe, Madam Minister, that the arbitrations had not been rendered for several days. You will understand that it is difficult for me not to see this late deposit as a form of contempt for national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u128	Against all odds, you have decided to reduce the AME's draft budget by EUR 15 million. It is, of course, a very bad blow to her, and you know that, Madam Minister. I will not have the cruelty to remind you of your statements from previous years, when you justified here the need to increase these appropriations. We are very far from the assurances you gave last week to the Committee on Social Affairs, where you never suggested that such an amendment would be tabled. In particular, you have told us that there is no question of limiting access to the AME for those who really need it, and who do not use it very much. You have even stated that improving access to care for migrants is an important issue. We will see in a few minutes that this is not the case; On the contrary, everything is being done to make the lives of potential beneficiaries increasingly difficult. For the first time in years, programme 183 did not increase, and the budget documents justified this stagnation by the considerable strengthening of controls, noting that the Government expected significant management savings. Obviously, they were not enough for you; You have therefore decided to cut drastically in these appropriations, even though the IGAS and IGF report considers that the expenditure is probably undervalued. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] See you next year, Minister, to see what damage this measure has caused on the ground. Since the committee could not consider this amendment, since it rarely meets at 23 hours, my personal opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u129	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u130	I note that yesterday's announcements come to fruition with the Government's amendments. However, I would be tempted to say that it is only a display, a communication effect. The budget entry indicates EUR 934 million, but no one is fooled and we know very well that the appropriations for state medical aid should instead amount to EUR 1 billion, if rounded. To remove 15 million from this 1 billion mass, by saying that this amount corresponds to that of fraud, falls within the scope of the communication. The proposal is consistent with yesterday's announcements, but it is neither credible nor sufficient in relation to the stated desire to finally regain control of all the abuses found in the framework of the state's medical aid. The Republican Group notes that you are showing a willingness to go in the right direction, but believes that, in concrete terms, 15 million will be far from enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u131	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u132	We will vote on the amendments, but your measure is of little use, for a number of reasons. It is ridiculous from a budgetary point of view. As Mrs Dalloz said, you are withdrawing EUR 15 million from a draft budget of EUR 1 billion. It's nothing but political display! You are a strict politician, yet rejected and vilified by The Republic on the move a few months ago. So you're going to cut the state's medical aid by about 1%. Secondly, Madam Minister, your measure is inconsistent. You just responded to Ms. Ménard's intervention that the more people were waiting to treat people, the higher the cost. But you are introducing waiting periods that will make people wait – certainly not in the most serious cases. Mechanically, therefore, the cost will be higher. Especially as people will be forced to go to the emergency room. Thirdly, the measure is ineffective, because it does not change the attitude. This is made up of the number of illegal immigrants present in France. You belong, Madam Minister, to the majority who voted the day before yesterday a 10% reduction in the budget allocated to the fight against irregular immigration: you therefore increase the number of illegal immigrants present in France, which mechanically widens the AME's base, even if you increase the waiting period and reduce the basket of care! The number of illegals present in France is increasing: you do nothing to send them back to their country since you are evicting less than in 2015 under François Hollande. The AME will therefore increase from year to year. On the other hand, this measure is unfair: it is not for the French, nor for foreigners contributing to the social security system, to pay for hip prostheses or the operation of the cataract of clandestines, whether on their arrival in France or three months later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u133	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u134	Finally, you are acting in contempt of Parliament: you will not make us believe that with a report by the IGAS and the IGF presented on Tuesday and an amendment tabled on Wednesday, you respect Parliament. You are engaged in pure and unbelievable political display.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u135	It's implacable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u136	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u137	I take advantage of this intervention on the Government's amendment to defend Amendment No 1726, which aims to reduce much more substantially the funds allocated to the AME. I will vote for the amendments you are tabling, Madam Minister, because they indicate a willingness to go in the right direction; Nevertheless, they are far from sufficient and redressing the injustice that the AME constitutes for many French people. The AME provides free care for foreigners in an irregular situation. Foreigners in a regular situation and French nationals are not provided free of charge. This creates a profound injustice, which must be repaired, and you do not. The AME is also the cause of fiscal inflation, Marie-Christine Dalloz has just shown it: almost 1 billion euros in credits; 75,000 beneficiaries in the years 2000 and 334000 today. There is also fraud, as the IGAS report says. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is therefore necessary to go much further, to remove the AME in its present form and to fight its drifts much more vigorously. This is what the Republicans offer, with much more strength, determination and courage than you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u138	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u139	You explain to us, Madam Minister, that you do not question the principle of the AME, that you are even very attached to it. However, you are reducing the budget. This is akin to a challenge. The IGAS report lists cases of abuse of AME, consisting of 43 dialysis patients, ninety-four deliveries and ten cancers, in order to justify a law restricting the right to health of migrants and asylum seekers. On the scale of France, it is unworthy. You speak of exemplaryness, but yours is selective. To be exemplary, you want to develop devices that you recognize are little exploited, but to do so, you are once again reducing the AME's credits. This subject reminds me strangely of the issue of deprivation of nationality under the previous government. At least the parliamentary majority had opposed it. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] What's going to happen? You want to seduce an electorate voting for the far right, and, to achieve this, you are reneging. Ultimately, you will deny your values and strengthen the National Rally. It's pitiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u140	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u141	As Mr Aviragnet has just said, you offer the most caricatural and catastrophic application of the policy of "at the same time". You claim to show humanity and firmness at the same time; all you do is politically and ideologically legitimize all the ideas received, all the fake news – we've heard a few more recently – and all the stigmas that have been happening for years; You have decided to put this debate on the table, which is now an annual debate on immigration: it is your Government that has chosen to return to it with the subject of the AME. In addition, you tabled this amendment at the last minute, when you intended to do so from the outset, in order to legitimize and justify all these stigmatizations. Indeed, as colleagues in the Republican Group have denounced, this "at the same time" is a poster operation: you say that the reduction of EUR 15 million is insignificant in terms of the size of the budget concerned. However, in reality, the message thus sent will have the effect of further tightening the conditions for access to the AME. Everything happens in speeches as if anyone could present themselves and be entitled to the AME. That's not true! I refer you to the mobilization organized today by a wide range of associations and organizations providing assistance and support to migrants and migrants, in order to appeal to the Government; they recall the conditions for access to the AME. The message that you send tends to make them even more difficult, which will have catastrophic consequences: this is the warning issued by all associations since the beginning of this real-false debate. Indeed, your communication to satisfy Mr. Macron's wish to be opposed to Marine Le Pen in 2022, by structuring the whole political debate around this duo of complacency, will contribute to stigmatization, reduce the right to health and will not guarantee access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Obono.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u143	Congratulations to you Minister, you can be proud, just like your majority who will vote for this measure...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Obono, we understand. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u145	As you said, minister, this is part of a comprehensive plan, which was mentioned yesterday. In my turn, I would like to denounce an unhealthy operation, which aims to move the heart of the public debate away from where it should be. Whatever you say, because we can sometimes feel a little awkward, the measure you propose is to tighten the right of asylum, which is already particularly restricted by the asylum and immigration law, and access to care. You thus participate in an overbidding that will continue; We are already seeing in the Chamber how this proposal will serve as a springboard for those who would like to go ever further. You say you defend the AME, but the measure on the table will weaken it. It feeds the fable of an MEA that would be a horn of abundance, claiming that our Republic would treat its nationals less well than others. This idea has done a lot of harm in the public debate for years or even decades. President Macron had promised to lead a policy and left and right; We never believed it, and if we had had illusions, they would have been dispelled very quickly. At the end of the day, this measure seems to be right and far right – just listen to the interventions. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Your proposal is clearly an aberration, a nonsense, a mistake: in our view, it is indefensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u146	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u147	Madam Minister, it is with a little pain that I address you. We sometimes fight hard in this chamber, but I think we have the feeling that, like Aron and Sartre, when it comes to strictly human issues, we can find ourselves. With your proposal, I see the bad wind that you take inflating the sails of those you claim to fight. Some of us voted for Emmanuel Macron in the second round of the presidential election: it was for other promises than those you seem to be serving today. [[Some members of the SOC and FI groups applaud]] I feel sorry because I think it's not you, Madam Minister: it's not your story or your temperament; These are not, I believe, your deep convictions. Because I read what you said about different subjects, which seemed to me to reflect other values, I imagine too well the ball in the belly that you must feel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u148	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] It is with difficulty, I confess, that I repeat here, before the national representation, the sentence of Rousseau that I had the opportunity to quote when we were considering the Asylum and Immigration Bill, and that you should probably remind the President of the Republic when you come across it: "The very dominion is servile, when it is held to opinion; For you depend on the prejudices of those whom you rule by prejudice. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u149	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u150	Where is our soul, dear colleagues, dear friends, dear Members of the LaREM Group? Where's our soul? Where is this spirit that animated us when we came here to revolutionize politics, to renovate France? A ship without a heading, delivered to the waves, ends at the bottom of the abyss. [[Applause on the SOC, FI, GDR and LT benches]] Where are we going? These amendments will not change France's migration policy. They will only support the worst ideas that we have come to fight. Some of them have already taken it. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, FI, GDR and LT groups. – Ms Martine Wonner also applauds]] Will we go here and now continue to disappoint those who, from the centre right to the left, have supported us, those who have believed in our hope? Are we going to complete humanism this morning?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u151	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u152	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Who can be opposed to the fight against fraud? No one. We can be with you, minister, to lead this fight. Today, however, only 12 per cent of those eligible for state medical assistance actually avail themselves of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u154	[[Applause on the SOC, FI, GDR and LT benches]] We wish, and you have said again, to continue, to accompany, to defend this policy of "go towards it". But this requires resources. What are we talking about? The AME – I am not the one who points out, but the IGAS report – is the most scrutinised billion in public health spending, with a total of 320 billion euros. And Amendment No 2180 concerns 15 million. What message do we send? As legislators, of course, we must be very attentive to the evaluation of public policies, and I welcome the balance of the measures presented yesterday, but let us not assess them in advance! By cutting AME's credits by 15 million today, we anticipate without even having evaluated or controlled. As we speak, the camps in Paris and Saint-Denis are evacuated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u155	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u156	[[Applause on the SOC, FI, GDR and LT benches]] It's more than a symbol. We could be proud of this and applaud this evacuation together, if it is to protect people or to immediately assess the physical or psychological suffering of people who have had a catastrophic journey and whom we must accompany. Madam Minister, I think we will be voting against the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u157	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u158	This amendment questions us all deeply. First of all, I would like to fight a preconceived idea. Since 1993, the provision of health care to immigrants, whether legal or illegal, has been reduced. Prior to that date, all foreigners, regardless of their status, had access to the same rights as the French. Therefore, let us not suggest that the use of AME increases exponentially. Mrs. Wonner has just recalled that not everyone who could claim it was asking for it. Secondly, AME, which certainly adheres to an ethical and humanitarian principle, is primarily a public health measure designed to prevent people with infectious diseases – tuberculosis or other diseases – often resulting in a degraded state of health from being contagious and from contaminating the rest of the population. Let us not lose sight of this public health objective. In the end, the amendment deals with a derisory sum – 15 million – and does not deal with the problem of fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u159	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u160	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups]] All this is a rush that makes all Members uncomfortable. For these reasons, Sylvia Pinel, Paul-André Colombani and I will not vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u161	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u162	The play is quite well run. I've seen her play so often that there's no more suspense. The Government, which did not want to act against immigration, particularly illegal immigration, proposed a derisory measure in terms of efficiency and financial resources. That is indeed the prototype of your proposals, Madam Minister. At that time, in the play, the left began to scream...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u163	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u164	... to death: "My God! It's awful! Do you realize? We're limiting the law of illegals! » Moreover, this left royally does not care for poor French people, one third of whom fail to take proper care of themselves, because, at the time we are talking, they have less rights than illegals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u165	That's not true! Stop fooling the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u166	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] This is the play. Because the left has started to scream and whine, as it knows so well, the Government welcomes: "The French will think that we have shown firmness against illegal immigration. » As far as I'm concerned, I'm starting to get tired of this movie. And I think that is also the case with the French. The only truly effective measure would be the total elimination of AME and its transformation into an allocation for hazards, for life, for contagious diseases, and exclusively for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u167	Read the report for opinion! It won't hurt you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u168	If you do not take it, you will go and explain to the French, who, while they contribute, do not manage to treat themselves and see regularly the list of medicines that have been refundable and the hospital costs increase that, in our country, when we are clandestine and violate the laws, we benefit from the total free of charge of the care. As for asylum seekers whose application has been rejected, they still benefit from one year of free care, which you will reduce to six months. Oh, my God! What firmness...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u169	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u170	You have to keep it right. What is important, Madam Minister, is that we do not touch the essentials. The amendment does not concern the right of asylum, which is sacred in our country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u171	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u172	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ...and it's not about urgent care, which I thank you for. The measure is symbolic and non-financial: 15 million do not represent much. It is not a question of reducing the impact of the AME on the budget, but of sending a message about medical immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u173	A message sent to the extreme right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u174	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The objective of the measure is not financial, I repeat. The amendment does not reduce the right of asylum. It concerns medical immigration and non-emergency care. That is why the MODEM Group will vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u175	Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u176	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] There's a lot of hypocrisy on some benches. I am targeting Mr Vallaud in particular. Because what's the last government to cut the AME's basket of care? It was the socialist government, for which he worked at the time. And we were many, at that time, considering that this was not a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u177	You were for that discount! You're such a geek.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u178	Oh, tartufs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u179	This is a debate between former socialists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u180	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, who are doing in the pathos and who, this morning, want to take us with feelings, look at the guts, yours, before looking at ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u181	Zero ethics!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u182	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Some in this House have always wanted to abolish the AME. They believe that people who are weak in an irregular situation must be expelled, even if they are ill. We reject this prospect, and that is our soul. That is what we will defend until the end of the quinquennium. A few moments ago, Mr. Dharréville said that the proposed measure was part of a comprehensive plan. That's the truth. This overall plan...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u183	This is the betrayal of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u184	...va from official development aid – which we want to better associate with our migration policy, by helping countries of origin and transit – to control, because our soul also leads us to consider that in return for national solidarity and the help of the national community to the weakest, we have the right and the demand to control, to contract with people in situations of great weakness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u185	You don't have much honor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u186	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Let them know that in return for their rights, we are also entitled to require certain controls! [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With this overall plan, we also give the sign of a great openness both to professional emigration and to integration policy, which we are fundamentally reorienting. The Government's amendment is the translation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u187	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u188	We thought Emmanuel Macron would at least keep us from this. On ecology, his program did not include anything. On the economy, he was liberal. No surprise! On the social side, he was antisocial. We expected it. But we thought at least that Emmanuel Macron would stop not only Marine Le Pen but also his ideas. That is why millions of people voted for him in the second round of the presidential elections. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, SOC and GDR. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Over the weeks, the dam turns into a bridge. Yes, a bridge is built between macroism and the far right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u189	Let's hear Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u190	We have an illustration of this today. We were told that the measure concerning state medical aid was symbolic. In fact, the Government is waving a symbol to combat 0.06 per cent of fraud and to remove a €15 million envelope that does not count for anything in the budget. Last year again, I heard courageous voices rising on the benches of the majority. Last year, again, you were good here, Madam Minister, and Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaegue was heard repeating "Freedom, equality, fraternity". You were good. And now the cliff is eroding. But, basically, it's not new. This is part of a sequence that opened up with the big debate, during which, we were told, it was not necessary to address health issues, but one could talk about immigration. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Why? Because, at a time when we have a strong people, we must operate division and diversion. This sequence continued in a very consistent manner with the sail, with quotas, with the AME and with the one of current Values.( Protests on the benches of the LaREM group.) [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] This is the light under which the second part of Emmanuel Macron's term of office opens. It's very dark. Freedom, equality, fraternity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u191	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u192	I will obviously vote against the amendment under discussion and the subsequent amendments of the Government. First, there is a real method problem. After the announcements yesterday, the amendments were tabled a few hours before our debate, which begins on a wrong basis. All we have to do is to see the bright smiles, unlike the hemicycle, to understand that the discussion serves extreme theses. On the pretext of combating a few very limited abuses, the proposed measures will harm many and increase insecurity. We forget the public health issues that lie behind these measures: more restrictions on access to care are obviously more health risks, more precarisation, more pressure on our social and health system and therefore, in the end, probably false savings without any deterrent effect. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Both in substance and in form, this plan would have deserved a phase of consultation with all the actors involved, who alert us and express their total incomprehension with some of the measures presented. We need more listening and dialogue, because today we do not want to hear what civil society and the actors on the ground mobilized for solidarity, health and support for migrants have to say to us: it is a fundamental mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u193	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u194	I don't know if some of you are playing a play here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u195	Mrs. Le Pen excels!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u196	Perhaps this is the case on some benches: we can award Mrs. Le Pen the Molière interpretation for the regularity of her game! The IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote for this amendment, as will all the others presented by the Government. Indeed, it is not just a matter of adopting an amendment to abolish EUR 15 million of appropriations: it is a global policy. Mr Orphelin, there is no question of reducing access to care: The Minister has repeatedly reiterated the importance of continuing to care for those in need. This is of course a human issue, but also a health issue. The IUD, Action and Independent Group will therefore vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u197	I will give the floor again to three colleagues who wish to do so, which will make a total of 20 speeches. I believe that all the sensitivities could have been expressed and that we will then have all the elements to inform the debate. Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u198	I do not think that the measures call into question what makes our country's soul: freedom, equality and fraternity. If I had even a shadow of doubt, I would obviously not be voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u199	Then don't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u200	There was no question at any time of calling into question the health care of those arriving in the Territory. The proposed gradation of care does not in any way call into question their health security. You are all witnessing the demand of our fellow citizens on the means of solidarity implemented – and not only for migrants elsewhere, but more generally the beneficiaries of solidarity allowances, as is the case in my department. They want to be sure that their solidarity is shared wisely. The Government's approach is designed to meet this expectation of the French and to give them confidence in our system of solidarity, which is not lost but rightly goes to those who need it most. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Some of the migrants present in our territory do not make use of the assistance they may be entitled to. Just as it seems to us normal to divert those who abuse the system, it seems to us just to help and support those who have rights but do not use them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u201	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u202	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, you are taking the lives of human beings hostage, hoping for electoral benefits. I think you're better than that. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I want to tell you only one thing: pull yourself together! If you don't want to listen to the oppositions that are expressed on all benches, – including on yours, because I don't put everyone in the same bag! – at least listen to your colleagues, those hospital practitioners who, in the name of medical ethics, in the name of ethics, in the name of public health, refuse to be forced to make a selection among the sick. They refuse to choose between those who can be treated and those who will be left behind – these are their terms. [[Applause on the SOC benches and some LT benches]] There's still time, Minister. Be brave and make the only decision that is right: give up reducing the AME!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u203	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u204	There have been many speakers, but this is an important subject. Pierre Dharréville said earlier that we were facing a symbol. Charles Péguy said: "It all starts in mysticism and ends in politics. Although you yourself have said that the AME actually weighs little in health spending, you maintain the myth of a too high cost of AME, which would damage public finances. To say that it is not completely false is to display symbolically to your voters an action on the subject of immigration. You can tell them that Mrs Le Pen is not the only one who is firm and that people in an irregular situation are too expensive because of their use of the AME.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u205	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u206	You will be able to tell them: "We too are acting! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u207	It's the only way out...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u208	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is the symbol that you are agitating, which in reality has no economic meaning, only a political and symbolic meaning. It's criminal, know it! It is criminal, and the Prime Minister has given us further confirmation in questions to the Government, when he replied to Mrs. Le Pen that she may be able to discuss this matter again with the President of the Republic in two years' time. This opposition to the upcoming presidential elections is obviously your dream, your wish, your political life assurance! You are looking for a dialogue on this topic. Charles Péguy said that the mystic ended in politics; With you, it starts with Macron and it ends with Le Pen! We won't let you do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u209	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I really will have heard everything on these benches. It is interesting to see how difficult it is to approach this debate by trying to reflect on the complexity of situations – I will present them to you –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u211	And the use of credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u212	...because that's what the IGAS report highlighted. I am, of course, only trying to preserve an essential mechanism for the care of people, whether they are in an irregular situation or not. As has been said – especially to the left of the House – access to health care is the foundation of our Republic and of values that I know are shared on every bench, for it is a humanitarian right to which our country is attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u213	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u214	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The amendments tabled by the Government today do not in any way call into question these fundamental values. [[Same movements]] The AME is the subject of all fantasies, it is thought that its removal will solve the problem of immigration. But my goal is simply to avoid the deviousness of an important, indispensable system to which I am deeply attached, so that it no longer conveys fantasies. Without this, some will end up having their own skin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u215	Because 0.6%, you call it a mistake?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u216	I have heard absolutely outrageous comments about our objective. What do we want to implement with regard to AME? Today, this aid is aimed at migrants in an irregular situation in our country, who, after the first three months of their presence in France during which they are entitled to urgent care, can request this basket of care a little limited and renewed each year. This mechanism is in no way changed: the three-month period already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u217	And you'd have to thank yourself for that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u218	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our amendment does not target the majority of migrants, the one you are talking about, to whom I am very attentive and which the associations that are yelling at today, but targets a very particular audience, well known to healthcare professionals in hospitals. Indeed, we seek to target people who, entering with a tourist visa and who sometimes even have family in France, have no documents to apply for the AME. Health insurance does not have the means to know whether they have entered the territory regularly or irregularly. Thanks to the AME, these people will have access to certain treatments and then return to their country. It is therefore not migrants that we are talking about, but people who come to France to seek treatment by creating a system to which we are all deeply attached. We have to refuse it. You know the difficulties that hospitals face today. Unfortunately, our health system is not meant to replace all failing health systems around the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u219	Come on! Madame Le Pen, respond, say something! The minister is reciting your text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u220	We are not targeting migrants from the door of the Chapel, but the medical tourism of people I know, welcomed in France to family, who have the means to pay a plane ticket to come with a tourist visa and to be covered by a private health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u221	That's very good, but that's not what your amendment does!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u222	This is the target audience for the introduction of a three-month waiting period, not for migrants who are in the care of associations or the public for which the AME is actually intended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u223	It's schizophrenic, that's not what you said two years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u224	[["Marine Buzyn! » on the benches of the FI group]] I wanted to make it clear that we were not talking about the same audience. The IGAS report stressing that some are using the AME, we will cross-check the AME applications with the visa database, Visabio, to identify people who go back and forth between the country where they live and France, where they simply come for treatment. There will be no difference with the current situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u225	I mean, a confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u226	Your amendment is therefore of no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u227	It doesn't change, but it changes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u228	Persons in an irregular situation will continue to have access to the AME, but after prior agreement, in the first few months, for non-emergency care. This will allow us to be careful that people do not come for a programmed or programmable act, without, however, entailing any risk to the health of people – there is no risk of operating a cataract two months later than expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u229	There's six months in my house!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u230	The pre-arrangement, already widespread for many acts taken over by health insurance and to which we all have access, will not prevent the acts to be carried out, but will allow us to verify that people live in the territory, that they are really sick, and that they have not programmed to come to France just for the operation. Thus, migrants whose status would require certain acts will of course have access to them. Let's stop the fantasies! We do not question any of our values. Let us work cleanly and be faithful to our rules, to our values...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u231	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u232	...and our humanity. I have heard absolutely incredible things in this debate. I am deeply committed to caring for all human beings, regardless of their income.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u233	You say everything and its opposite...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u234	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Throughout my years of exercise, this has always been my doctrine. I am acting rigorously today, without denying anything of the fundamentals to which we are all attached, to restore confidence in this system and to perpetuate it for those who need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u235	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2180.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u236	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 141 Number of votes cast 133 Absolute majority 67 For adoption 90 Against 43
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u237	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u238	Amendment No 1726 by Mr Eric Ciotti is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u239	The committee did not consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u240	On Amendment No 1697, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u241	A little similar to that of Mr Ciotti, this amendment tends to reduce the AME's appropriations by EUR 534 million and to accompany this reduction with a fundamental reform of the system. In my personal capacity, of course, I will give an opinion in favour of this amendment, since I support it. I was able to give an unfavorable opinion on amendments to the budget cuts a few moments ago because these reductions were not accompanied by a substantive reform. The reform that you are proposing, Madam Minister, certainly goes in the right direction on certain points, such as the waiting period to combat fraud. We are, however, far from a fundamental reform that would require refocusing the AME on the urgency, particularly on vital care. Your previous amendment dealt with a modest amount: EUR 15 million out of EUR 934 million. As you know, we have a real problem of acceptability of these appropriations by our fellow citizens. I wonder whether the purpose of your amendment would not be to test your majority on a subject which has led to differences within it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u242	It's possible, and the test is conclusive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u243	We propose here to reform in depth and thus respond more to the report of IGAS and IGF, where fourteen reform proposals had been made. The Government is far from the goal. The Commission had rejected this amendment, but I am personally in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u245	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u246	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1697.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u247	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 91 Number of votes cast 90 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 15 Against 75
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u248	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1399.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u249	There is obviously no question here of calling into question the need for AME for foreigners who are in a state of absolute emergency, especially since this aid helps prevent epidemics and respond to certain health emergencies. Nevertheless, the continued inflation of the cost of the AME since its inception has been worrying: its budget has increased from €75 million in 2000 to €934.9 million in 2019. In 2015, Claude Goasguen's parliamentary report noted a 32 per cent increase between planned and actual spending between 2009 and 2015. The explosion in the AME budget is obviously due to the continuous increase in the number of beneficiaries. In ten years, it has increased by 47% to almost 1 billion euros. Even though the AME, as is widely understood in your ranks, represents only a small share of total health expenditures, there are symbols that matter. To ask for a symbolic participation of the illegals who come to France and who benefit from our care system does not seem totally incoherent, on the contrary. In fact, contrary to what you said, Madam Minister, the authors of the IGAS report do not reject the idea of a moderator ticket for AME beneficiaries, but they believe that it could be symbolic. It's on page 25 of the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u250	On Amendment No 2288, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1403.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u251	While France needs an accessible health care system more than ever before and in line with the needs of our people, the Government is allocating only nearly 50 million euros to the action "Modernisation de l'offre de soins" while allocating a budget of 934 million euros to the AME. This is a kind of double standard, which is completely unacceptable. I come back to this again: a lump sum contribution, even symbolic, on the part of the beneficiaries of the AME would be only fair vis-à-vis the French. Such participation would enable the Government to provide a little more resources to combat, inter alia, medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u252	Mrs Delphine Bagarry, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2288.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u253	This amendment is in line with the Government's amendment No. 2180, which reduces the appropriations allocated to the AME by EUR 15 million. I propose to redeploy this EUR 15 million from Action 11 "Public health policy piloting" from Programme 204 to Action 2 "State medical aid" from Programme 183, in order to restore the appropriations originally provided for in the draft finance law. We want to develop the "go towards", fight against non-recourse and cessation of care and reduce the congestion of emergency services. In this context, it seems inconsistent to me to reduce these appropriations for the AME, whereas, as you pointed out, Madam Minister, only 12% of those who could claim it in the first year. Rather, these funds should be increased, since we have the ambition to treat people who are isolated because of their administrative situation and who suffer from care deficits. We must not make our fellow citizens believe that they will be ill-treated because we will have increased or maintained the AME. We will always be well cared for in France, whoever we are, whether foreign or French, insured or not. For my part, I repeat that I am proud of our solidarity policies. We must not act here in an ideological way. I'm happy to be in a generous country. I prefer to be in this country that gives rather than in a country that takes. These EUR 15 million are symbolic, but some symbolic measures can be costly for others, added to those contained in future amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u255	The committee did not consider this amendment. As I have already indicated, I want structural reform, and if I was reluctant to accept the Government's amendment, it is because I consider that a reduction of EUR 15 million is insufficient. With regard to this amendment, I do not want EUR 15 million from health prevention to be used to increase the AME's funding. As a personal matter, I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u258	Madam Member, I know your fight on these issues and I think we agree on the need to better structure aid and to go to those people who, in fact, do not ask for it easily. The "go to" is therefore necessary. Other countries receive migrants much better, especially with a systematic assessment of the first-time arrivals who can be directed towards the care they absolutely need: treatment of infections but also psychiatric conditions that may be linked to psychotraumatism. We intend to increase PSSAs and encourage initiatives to properly structure reception. However, all these appropriations come from the PLFSS and are therefore not intended to be adopted in the finance bill. That is why I am against your amendment, not on principle and idea, but because these measures have no place in the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u259	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u260	We had a very passionate and interesting discussion about the government's amendment on the AME. The one that Delphine Bagarry has just presented to us allows us to dart the 15 million euros, even if we are not part of the PLFSS. There was a lot of talk about symbols this morning. The virtue of symbols is that they are polysemic and that everyone can make a personal interpretation of them. The important thing is to gather around common causes. It seems to me that this amendment could allow us to agree on a few points: the absolute need for unconditional reception; good contracting; vigilance; accompaniment to care, especially psychological care, as there may be a form of denial in this area; the need to allow these devices to function. Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u261	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u262	Since technical arguments have been raised, I would like to point out that last week, in the framework of the PLFSS, we adopted a non-compensation measure for exemptions amounting to almost EUR 3 billion. The EUR 15 million referred to here therefore appears to be a very small catch-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u263	Mrs Caroline Fiat, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u264	The Committee on Social Affairs has obviously not had time to consider this amendment, which I personally support. This EUR 15 million represents one of those red lines that must not be crossed in order to prevent the AME from becoming the subject that all French people could take over. In my opinion report, I list the ideas received on the AME in a chapter that could be very useful in reading. [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With regard to medical tourism, Madam Minister, it may indeed happen that princes from Qatar or researchers in Switzerland come to France for treatment and benefit from the AME. What do consulates do? Why don't they go get the money from the consulates concerned? This EUR 15 million is not worth it. They give a bad picture of the AME that everyone needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u265	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2288.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u266	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 87 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 23 Against 62
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u267	Amendment No 1613 by Mr Adrien Quatennens is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u268	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1747.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u269	Through this amendment, we ask the Government not to question the AME – this challenge is, in our view, a red line that must not be crossed. I would like to take advantage of the defence of this amendment to reply to the minister who spoke of very exaggerated words – even from our benches, I imagine – and invited us to abandon our fantasies. We have indeed spoken of criminal policy and, in this regard, I would like to remind you of some rough figures, which are not fantasies but facts. In 2012, Spain restricted access to care for migrants, so-called to put an end to a so-called health tourism, which is in fact only a lie if one is interested in the facts – as the Caroline Fiat report reveals in particular. This restriction in access to care has led to an increase in mortality of 15 per cent among the migrant population. Yes, it's called a criminal policy! I notice with surprise – a nuanced surprise, however – that your indignation about fraud is variable in geometry. Indeed, fraud is not just about the migrants, who you are attacking! We often talk about assisted people and social fraud. Let me remind you of a few figures that it is good to have in mind. Social fraud is 4 billion euros. But employers fraud is EUR 16 billion and tax fraud is EUR 80 to 100 billion. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You are attacking the weakest in the country, because you do not want to be attacked by the rich who, for their part, refuse national solidarity and the existence of policies of solidarity. You act exactly like the far right: you divide the country by pointing the weakest finger, so that we do not see that you have given back to the richest the ISF, and other gifts, and that they should be charged today!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u271	The committee did not consider this amendment. Personally, I am against this because, as I have already had the opportunity to say, we must, on the contrary, undertake a genuine reform of the AME.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u273	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u274	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u275	As I was unable to speak earlier, I would like to take this opportunity to raise the subject of the AME differently. Madam Minister, you could have proposed to us a different story from the one written in pain a few minutes ago on the occasion of the vote on the Government's amendment. You could have announced that you wanted to fight medical tourism, whose abuses you described perfectly. The Assembly would have unanimously supported you. Then, in six months or a year's time, you could have decided to reallocate these funds to a policy of prevention on the other side of the Mediterranean, upstream, or in migrant camps. In this way you could have redeployed, reformed the AME, as the Special Rapporteur said, in the interests of human dignity and with the aim of promoting prevention and health policies, which are of great interest to us. In doing so, you would have told a republican and humanist story. But attacking the budget as you did meant attacking a symbol and what brings us together today. You know that we could have achieved the same objective without using the wrong ideology and policy that characterize our vote a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u276	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2198.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u277	As before, I propose that you present the various amendments on sodium valproate – whose trade name is Dépakine – in a consolidated manner. Amendment No 2197 aims to speed up the processing of cases and the compensation of victims. First of all, we want to merge the two bodies examining applications, which will speed up the processing of cases, facilitate the work of experts and reduce the operating costs of the system. Indeed, if the creation of two bodies was initially justified by the need to deal at best with highly complex cases, we must admit that this separation is a factor of complexity for the victims themselves. The scheme is difficult to understand and can in part explain the length of the compensation periods. The files already examined by the current bodies may be reviewed by the new merged body if the applicants so wish. We also want to secure compensation for victims from 1982 onwards for malformations and 1984 for developmental disorders. In order to ensure easier compensation for victims, it is therefore proposed to set in the law dates from which the link between the harm suffered and the lack of information will be presumed: 1982 for congenital malformations and 1984 for behavioural and cognitive development disorders. This would make it easier for victims to receive compensation, without their case being declared inadmissible. Acceleration of compensation deadlines by ONIAM is necessary when replacing the person designated by the committee. This period will be increased from three to one month. Amendment No 2198, which is the subject of this vote, draws the budgetary consequences of Amendment No 2197. On the one hand, it provides for a reduction in the appropriations linked to the operating savings of the expert bodies, on the other hand, an increase in the appropriations due to the securing of compensation for old cases. A total of €500,000 is proposed for the 204 programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u279	This amendment does indeed draw the consequences of provisions that will be presented to us in the context of a subsequent amendment, as you have pointed out, Madam Minister. First of all, I would like to thank the Government for providing us with the report requested in this House a year ago and for taking into account the difficult situation today of compensation for the victims of sodium valproate. This amendment provides for savings of EUR 500000, resulting both from the merger of the two bodies and from the additional cost of EUR 1 million linked to the introduction of the system of presumption of liability for damage caused. I would like the Government to pay attention to improving access to the system, including through the initiation of procedures to help find the families concerned. The number of cases – 555 – remains well below the target, set at more than 10,000 victims compensated. It also seems to me essential to provide support for the victims in the steps to be taken, because, as you know, they remain tedious: it is a real difficulty for the victims to have to fill out 600-page files. Finally, I hope that your assessment, Madam Minister, takes into account the issue of the insufficient remuneration of experts. Indeed, the lack of experts in the colleges made ONIAM difficult, which led to delays in the review of the files. As the committee has not considered this amendment, it is a personal opinion that I am expressing, which will be in favour. My speech, which I have taken the time to develop, will be worth the next amendments on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u280	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u281	I also welcome the fact that the report we requested last year, after a lively debate, has led to concrete proposals that address the daily concerns of mothers and their children. These proposals will also help simplify claims and facilitate the identification, support and compensation of victims. Of course, this compensation will never compensate for the suffering of everyday life, of the past, but the accompaniment will be humane and important. We're moving together to go further. I thank the Minister and the Government for taking this step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u282	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u283	[["Congratulation! » and applause on several benches of the LR group]] I would like to highlight the work done by our special rapporteur, Véronique Louwagie, on this issue. Without its repeated warnings for two and a half years, the Government might not have acted. A first step is being taken today. If it should be stressed, it should also be recalled that this is the result of the parliamentary work carried out upstream. In this regard, it is important to pay tribute to the one who first addressed the Dépakin scandal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u284	I have before me several amendments, Nos 1426, 1413, 1416 and 1421, which can be presented together. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u285	I shall start with Amendment No 1426. According to INSEE, as of January 1, 2019, France had 66,993 million inhabitants. Unfortunately, the French population is aging. Persons at least 65 years of age make up 20 per cent of the population, compared to 19.7 per cent one year earlier and 19.3 per cent two years earlier. Their share increased by 4.3 points in 20 years. The increase is 2.4 points over the same period for residents aged 75 or over, who represented nearly one in ten residents on January 1, 2019. In view of this, it is the responsibility of the State to increase significantly the budgets allocated to the action "Prevention, health security and care provision" which aims to improve the mechanisms for preventing chronic diseases and the quality of life of the sick and their relatives – particularly in the case of neurodegenerative diseases, diseases related to ageing and cancers. Amendment No 1413 deals with a different subject. According to a Senate report published in June 2019, 10 to 25% of agricultural and food products imported into France would not meet the minimum environmental and health standards imposed on French producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u286	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u287	The health security of the French does not seem to be guaranteed, since the State does not ensure the necessary control to ensure that the products imported from abroad correspond to what is required of the French producers. In concrete terms, physical control rates for goods are very low, ranging from 3 to 7 per cent. This situation is not acceptable. It should be corrected as soon as possible by increasing the appropriations for the action "Prevention, health security and provision of care". Amendment No 1416 is similar. The aim of Amendment No 1421 is to establish an identical health check between blood-derived medicinal products from abroad and those from France. This seems to be a health evidence: why would there be two kinds of control measures when the health of the French is at stake?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u288	This is indeed a problem of reciprocity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u289	It would be appropriate for LANSM, in collaboration with the Laboratoire français du fractionation et des biotechnologies, to reserve the right to subject blood-derived medicinal products imported from abroad to the same health safety requirements as blood-derived medicinal products from the French market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u291	The committee did not consider any of these amendments. I agree with you, Mrs Ménard, on the need to increase funding for prevention on certain subjects. But you are proposing to subtract these credits from the AME scheme, without reforming it. Without substantive reform of the AME, it is not possible to subtract funds from this programme. For this reason, I suggest that you withdraw your amendments and possibly work on a proposal that takes into account structural reform of state medical aid. Personally, I am against all of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u292	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1423 and 1422, which can be presented together. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u293	The aim of Amendment No 1423 is to combat medical deserts by providing more funding for the mission "Prevention, health security and provision of care". Amendment No 1422 pursues the same aim, through the adoption of tax incentives to facilitate the installation of doctors in medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u295	The committee did not consider either of these amendments. For the same reasons as those mentioned on the previous four amendments, I personally express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u296	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 1797, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u297	Madam Minister, you know our group's position on state medical aid, which has just been clearly defended by my colleagues. With this amendment, I would like to talk to you about a subject that can bring us all together – not your EUR 15 million drop in AME funding, but a much more structuring measure of charging EUR 20 million in AME funding to abound the budget line for cancer prevention and screening actions. I recall that these diseases have become the leading cause of death in our country. Let me ask you a supplementary question, in the form of a nod to Lily and Oxana, about the EUR 5 million we got last year, all together, in support of research against pediatric cancers. Of course, this amount is very modest compared to the needs expressed by families and the suffering experienced by sick children, but these 5 million euros voted last year, in the PLF for 2019, to promote research against pediatric cancers have been well consolidated in order to be renewed every year?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u299	I know, Mr. Brun, your commitment to the fight against pediatric cancer. Here you propose an increase of EUR 20 million in the appropriations allocated to the fight against cancer and diseases linked to the ageing of the population. This budgetary transfer is very high, since the additional €20 million spent on prevention would also be added to the €5 million we voted for research here last year. The amount therefore seems to be too large, especially since we have already increased the budgetary effort on research. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment and perhaps review it with a slightly lower amount and a link between research and prevention. Without prevention, research loses some of its usefulness. In this case, there is a disproportion between the €5 million earmarked for research and the €20 million you propose to spend on prevention. In the absence of a withdrawal, I shall give your amendment an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u300	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u301	Unfavorable. I would like to reply to Mr Brun, who has raised an issue that concerns many Members on these benches. The appropriations allocated last year are well monitored: their distribution is decided in relation to all stakeholders, including associations of parents of sick children. A milestone was achieved at the National Cancer Institute on 21 September, in the presence of Frédérique Vidal, Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u302	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u303	I am sensitive to the arguments of the Special Rapporteur: I will therefore withdraw my amendment. However, I invite national representation, from all trends, to continue to debate and work on the issue of the prevention of cancers and old-age diseases. Thank you for your answer, minister, but my question was very specific. The EUR 5 million voted last year had to be consolidated by 2023, bringing the total effort to EUR 25 million over five years. Is that true?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u304	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u305	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 1733.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u306	This amendment, to which I associate all the Members of the National Mining Basin Gathering, aims to create a public centre for the eradication of asbestos, with a budget of EUR 5 million. In fact, 90% of buildings built prior to the 1996 Decree prohibiting the use of asbestos contain this material, and only 2% of asbestos waste is treated annually. The risks are still present: a report by the Health Watch Institute foresees as many as 100,000 deaths due to asbestos until 2050. The creation of a public focal point for the coordination of action by public and private actors in the sector is the most relevant tool for carrying out the fight against asbestos. Action 02 "State medical aid" of programme 183 "Sickness protection" is at the same time reducing its budget. Since the state budget is not extensible, the role of the legislator is to make choices. For our part, we want to give priority to the compensation of workers exposed to this killer fibre rather than to offer all medical care to foreigners in an irregular situation. The mobilisation of these credits to compensate workers who are victims of asbestos is a political choice that we ask you to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u307	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u308	You are proposing, Mr Chenu, to create a new €18 million "victim compensation" programme, which would bring together the funds allocated for the compensation of victims of asbestos and the establishment of a centre for the eradication of this material. I understand your concern about asbestos control, but your proposal seems unworkable. Indeed, the creation of such a centre would require an additional article, and I am not sure that its funding falls under the "Health" mission. Disadvantaged opinion in a personal capacity, the committee did not consider your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u309	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u310	The levy of EUR 18 million on programme 183 would amount to underbudgeting, which would obviously be contrary to the principle of budgetary sincerity. In addition, you propose to create a specific programme dedicated to the compensation of victims and the eradication of asbestos. However, I would remind you that resources already exist: in addition to the €8 million allocated under programme 183, the occupational accidents and diseases branch of social security spent more than €2 billion in 2018 on compensation and care for asbestos victims. The €2 billion is allocated as follows: €270 million in funding to the asbestos victims' compensation fund, FIVA; EUR 613 million for the fund for the early cessation of activity of asbestos workers, the CFAATA; EUR 1,126 billion for occupational asbestos-related diseases. The Government is also committed to protecting people from asbestos: an inter-ministerial action plan, established in 2015, involves ministers responsible for labour, health, housing and the environment. This plan, which focuses mainly on the construction sector, is intended to improve the prevention of risks for the general population and workers by facilitating the implementation of the regulations, by accompanying the increase in competence of the actors in the various fields of activity concerned and by supporting the research and development approaches on these issues. For all these reasons, the Government is against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u311	Mrs Caroline Fiat, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u312	This amendment provides for the creation of a "Indemnification of Victims" programme by charging EUR 18 million from the AME's appropriations. However, as the Minister said, compensation for asbestos victims is the responsibility of the FIVA, which was created specifically for this purpose. If the State allocation, via programme 183, is limited to €8 million per year, the Social Security Financing Act grants the FIVA €260 million. It is therefore not appropriate to reduce the AME's appropriations for this. The Committee on Social Affairs has not considered this amendment, but I personally give it an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u313	We come to three identical amendments, Nos 1164, 1430 and 1665, on which the Republicans and Liberties and Territories have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1164.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u314	The aim of this amendment is to provide the necessary resources for research against tick vector diseases, so that we can finally provide answers to people who suffer from Lyme disease and to the associations that represent them. Today, many patients with Lyme disease, but also people who suffer from symptoms that may cause them to fear being affected by Lyme disease, find themselves in a therapeutic wandering and despair of getting answers to their many questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u315	We have to do something!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u316	The management and treatment of this disease divide the scientific community; This division adds to the distress of patients and helps fuel the disorder, both in patients and in many practitioners. This situation suffices to justify the granting of substantial funds for research on this disease,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u317	Indeed, it is indispensable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u318	... especially as the number of cases reported is on the rise – 67,000 new cases were reported in 2018 alone. There is therefore an urgent need to equip the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, INSERM, with the necessary resources to carry out basic and clinical research within the framework of the Lyme Disease Plan. This research would cover, among other things, diagnostic tests, the reliability of which is being debated, severe or persistent forms of the disease, or co-infections. I would like to make it clear that this observation and this proposal are shared by my colleagues in the study group on Lyme Disease, which I chair with my colleague Nicole Trisse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u319	The study group has done an excellent job!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u320	Nicole Trisse and Jeanine Dubie both tabled amendments identical to mine, supported by Members sitting on all the benches of our House – I thank them for that. The aim of Amendment No 1164 is therefore to create a specific programme "Research against tick vector diseases", a plethora of EUR 10 million from Action 11 of Programme 204.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u321	Come on, Minister! We must meet the needs of the sick!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u322	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1430.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u323	This amendment, identical to the one just defended by Mr Descoeur, came from the work of the study group on Lyme B correliosis. We felt it necessary to table it at the end of the numerous hearings that we have organised. We first tabled this amendment on Monday, as part of the review of the research and higher education mission's appropriations, but we were told that it was more of a health mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u324	The ministers are turning the ball back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u325	Minister, you are aware that the HAS has published a document entitled "Recommendations of Good Practice", the part of which relating to the persistent tick bite syndrome – the SPPT – is being challenged by another learned society. It is the patients who bear the brunt of this controversy that, as Vincent Descoeur said, deals with both diagnostic techniques and the treatment and recognition of the chronicity of the disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u326	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u327	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR and GDR groups]] In order to respond to all patients in medical error, who go from doctor to doctor without finding satisfactory listening, it seems essential to encourage research, which could be fundamental or clinical – I am not a doctor – by allocating specific funds to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u328	Mr Christophe Lejeune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1665.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u329	I agree with the two previous speakers. The aim of this amendment is to increase funding for Lyme disease research. The funds available to public research institutions, including INSERM, to carry out research on Lyme disease are minimal or non-existent. As part of the work of the study group "Disease of Lyme", co-chaired by our colleagues Nicole Trisse and Vincent Descoeur, we quickly realized that better support in research on this disease, including its diagnosis and chronic character, would help to ease tensions within the scientific community and to find solutions for patients. Today, in fact, some patients are totally distraught – I have a special thought for one of my loved ones – and the scientific and medical community is fractured. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The medical error of patients represents a real cost to our society, and it would be more appropriate to devote this money to research on this disease. This is why Nicole Trisse proposes, by this amendment, to create a specific programme "Research against tick vector diseases", a plethora of €10 million from Action 11 "Public Health Policy Pilotage" of Programme 204.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u331	These amendments have not been considered by the committee, but, being co-signatory to one of them, I am obviously in favour of them in my personal capacity. The fact that Members from all sides have co-signed these amendments is also to be stressed: that is to say, the importance of the issue for the entire national representation. We have all met disorientated patients in our constituencies, disembodied in the face of a shared medical community. Such a finding requires a response from the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u332	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u333	I can only be sensitive, Mr. Descoeur, to the argument that you have just developed and that came out of the hearings that you are leading as co-chair, with Nicole Trisse, of the Lyme Disease Study Group. They have led you to meet families extremely disturbed by this diagnostic error and conflicting opinions of the scientific community. We are fully aware of the need to move forward in this area of vector diseases, in particular because, according to some, this is a major public health issue. The fracture that crosses the scientific community suggests that we do not know everything and that it is necessary to make progress. The actions carried out by the Ministry of Health to put an end to the wandering and suffering of patients are integrated into a plan that already exists, at the request of my predecessor, Marisol Touraine. This national plan for the control of tick vector diseases is being put in place, in particular by INSERM. Within this framework, the Ministry of Health is responsible for structuring the course of patient care and strengthening measures to prevent vector-borne diseases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u334	With what financial means?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u335	Research is one of the other strategic axes, in connection with INSERM and the Ministry of Research, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health providing financial support for national research activities on vector diseases. Research on tick-borne diseases must be interdisciplinary, cross-cutting and part of a comprehensive approach. Its management and financing must also benefit from transversality. As a result, the Ministry of Health, in conjunction with the Minister of Research, health agencies and all other research organisations, will increase their contribution to research projects dedicated to vector-borne diseases. In view of the appropriations already used in the framework of the actions provided for in the Lyme Plan and the interdisciplinary nature of the research, I do not think it desirable to create a new programme within the "Health" mission, which is disconnected from the other structures, relating to the financing of research actions. For these reasons, the Government is opposed to these amendments, even though the subject must obviously be dealt with and funding must be activated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u336	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u337	To be sensitive to the arguments that have been put forward by the speakers who have defended these amendments – and of course I agree with them – is not enough, Madam Minister. That has been said, we all know people with this disease. Vincent Descoeur gave the figures and it is quite impressive to see the number of new cases multiply every year. Today, we expect answers and, above all, decisive advances in the reliability of tests and management. The study group has been working seriously for the past two years and we are firmly committed to making progress. We auditioned the associations, the sick, the High Health Authority, and when, in June 2018, a national protocol for diagnosis and care was published, the PNDS, the volte-face of the latter put us in a dead end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u338	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u339	You were supposed, Madam Minister, to receive the study group's office, but the appointment was cancelled at the last moment, which proves that there is a problem. With this amendment, we want to send a signal and give hope to the sick who suffer daily and are in an untenable situation today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u340	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u341	I co-signed my colleague Vincent Descoeur's amendment at his request and I thank him for speaking to the Members of all the groups – I could, of course, have co-signed Mrs Dubie's or Mrs Trisse's amendment as well. I would like to highlight the excellent work done by the study group, which conducts numerous hearings, thus enlightening a debate which is an inextricable jungle of divergent opinions. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, MODEM, SOC, UDI-Agir, FI and LT groups]] We all know, among our loved ones, our family, our environment, people in great pain, and I think it's time to send them a sign. Adopting this amendment would have a significant moral impact on people who are in great difficulty. It is also a responsibility of our Assembly to deal with such serious problems. I also wonder whether we should not refer this issue to the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices to decide and make recommendations, otherwise we will continue to outstrip it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u342	Mrs Caroline Fiat, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u343	After President Chassaigne, I would like to thank Mr Descoeur for opening his amendment to the signature of all the benches, allowing me to co-sign his amendment. This shows that this subject concerns all benches and has no partisan character. The committee has not considered this amendment, but, as a co-signatory, I can of course only give a favourable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u344	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u345	Neither of us has the pretension to decide a scientific debate. What we expect from this assembly is a concrete response and a strong message, which is likely to give hope to the confirmed patients, but also to all those who think they have this disease and are victims of this wandering. I'm afraid to say that work is being done, that money could be redeployed is not up to the despair that is winning the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u346	Launch this signal, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u347	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM, SOC, UDI-Agir, FI, GDR and LT groups]] Today, at this moment, our Assembly owes them a strong gesture, a firm position that goes beyond political divisions, and I invite my colleagues to make this gesture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u348	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u349	I feel like we're dealing with the same topics every year without ever getting an answer. This subject has been discussed in this House since 2007, but it was not until 2016 that there was an opening, in the form of a prevention plan supposed to receive dedicated funding. Since then, nothing, when we talk about it regularly. The reality, minister, is that there is a total error, not only for people with the disease, but also for diagnostics, when people with all the symptoms are not recognized as sick. Vincent Descoeur spoke very judiciously about the number of new cases detected each year, but I would like us not to forget the "stock" – the word is unfortunate, but it's the technical term – of all those already infected with one of the various forms of b correliosis carrying Lyme disease and who have no solution. I would like to see the cost for social security of all the treatments used to combat the symptoms of this disease determined. Listen, minister, to the call that almost every bench in this chamber is making. We cannot be told at the same time, as you did last week, that it is part of the health budget and, as you are doing today, that we will see later. That's not acceptable! We need a firm and definitive response from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u350	The next speaker is Mr Paul Molac, who will speak for a region also affected by Lyme disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u351	We are right to stress the needs we have in terms of new studies because this disease is a very difficult diagnosis. It is above the market of a dormant disease. Many people are wandering and sometimes have to deal with insufficiently trained doctors who tell them that all this is psychosomatic. Some sick people come to see me regularly. It would also appear that this disease is also spreading among the ticks themselves, winning regions which, so far, did not know this type of problem. In the United States, this disease is becoming a real pandemic and I think it would be in our best interest to address this issue before we too face a pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u352	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u353	We are absolutely all mobilized to put an end to the diagnostic error and to know a little better about the phenomenon that many associations are reporting today. You can't say nothing's done. A national plan for the prevention and control of Lyme disease is being implemented and the progress made in this framework has been documented in a document published by my Ministry on 1 July 2019. Research on this disease is interdisciplinary and involves a large number of agencies – ANSES, Santé publique France, INSERM, the Institut national de la recherche agronomique, the Office national des forêts, and mobilises funds from the Directorate-General for Health or Research. As a result, the funding of these actors will be increased as part of the Lyme Disease Control Plan without the need for a specific programme. In fact, it would be a precedent: one cannot create an ad hoc programme for every health issue within programme 204, to the detriment of the budget allocated to prevention! I don't think that's the right way to do it. There are public health plans, abounding with needs. This is the case for Lyme disease and we believe that we need to increase research budgets and encourage the formation of research teams on these topics, but not by reducing the funds for prevention by 10 million! I am aware of the difficulty of parliamentary exercise, but I ask you, for all these reasons, not to vote for these amendments, which would deprive us of financing prevention in line with our ambition in this area. This is not to minimize the effort we must make to combat Lyme disease and to which I am committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u354	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1164, 1430 and 1665.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u355	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 33 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u356	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1609.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u357	"We need to focus on projects that have strong commercial potential": these words are by John Reed, Sanofi's new research boss, which Les Échos translated into this title: "Sanofi wants to discipline the work of its researchers. "Discipliner" here means betting on blockbusters even if they drop very serious diseases. It was this strategy that led to the launch of the sofosbuvir against hepatitis C, sold 29000 euros every 12 weeks of treatment, while, according to a study by the University of Liverpool, its cost of production is 75 euros for three months. A skin cancer drug launched in 2016 costs 19,000 euros per month, the Kadcyla against breast cancer 6000 euros per month. The record was recently reached by Novartis when he put on the market the gene therapy Zolgensma at a price of 1.9 million euros the single dose. This is the strategy for the pharmaceutical industry! There is a need for transparency on this strategy on which major health issues depend. For example, the World Health Organization – WHO – has been calling for the launch of important research programs on new anti-infective treatments for years. The pharmaceutical industries, the very ones that distribute billions of dividends to their shareholders, say that they cannot carry out these programs for budgetary reasons! Once again, we need a vision of the strategy of this industry – and if the pharmaceutical groups do not disclose it, we will have to do it for them! We also need a vision of price transparency. France has also associated itself with the WHO claims to this effect this year. In short, we need to engage in a genuine programme of transparency in the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u358	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u359	With this appeal amendment, Mr Ruffin, you are advocating the creation of a program dedicated to health transparency. We had this debate last year. Beyond the many points that you raise, I will focus on the core of your amendment: the transparency of health policies, which we all consider necessary. Efforts have been made in this direction. For example, since 2017, the Public Transparency Health database has made all the information reported by companies about the links of interest they have with health actors accessible. While the functioning of this platform and the identification of information could be further improved, I do not think that a specific budgetary programme is necessary to launch actions that pursue an objective of transparency. As the committee has not considered this amendment, I am personally expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u360	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1610.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u361	At a conference I helped organize at the National Assembly, Mr. Philippe Sopena, a member of AFMT – the French Association of Thyroid Patients – announced that, in order to launch the new Lévothyrox formula – which concerns 3 million patients – Merck had just tested the medicine on 200 South Africans for one day. Is that true or false? Is that a rumor? Users must have access to this data. How many tests have been performed? How long? On what species? With what results? Answers would be the best remedy for misinformation. We heard Sanofi's leadership about the Dépakine. The laboratory claims that only recently, when taken during pregnancy, was found to cause autistic disorders in children. Here's what Ms. Marine Martin, President of the Association for the Care of Parents of Children with Anticonvulsant Syndrome, APSAC, told us: "I obtained Sanofi's internal pharmacovigilance data; It made them very angry. As early as the 1980s, they knew that it created cases of autism. When I asked her to give us this data, she replied that the subject was sensitive and that I had to get closer to her lawyer. Questioned here in the National Assembly, Sanofi's leadership explained to us that studies have existed for years, but we cannot get them. We ask that all these studies be made public, on behalf of the patients taking these drugs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u363	This amendment on the transparency of research is resuming a debate that we had last year. I hear your concern, Mr Ruffin, but I would remind you that therapeutic and clinical trials are already largely regulated by our legal system. The ANSM monitors very closely the test procedures and the places where they are carried out, before issuing a marketing authorisation – MAH – if it considers that the relationship between the product's benefits and risks is satisfactory. It shall continue its monitoring mission after such authorisation, and may decide, where appropriate, to withdraw a product from the market. The existing procedure has shown its effectiveness and relevance. I therefore do not think it necessary to create a new programme to strengthen it. The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am against it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u365	I agree with the Special Rapporteur. Under successive laws, the clinical trial regime is now extremely well regulated in France – and fortunately. A new European Regulation on clinical trials will enter into force in March 2020, and will further enhance their transparency. The sponsor will therefore have to submit, on the basis of publicly available European data, an annual report on the safety of each experimental medicinal product used in a clinical trial, as well as a written summary of the results of the trial, together with a summary in a language understandable to the general public. In addition, the placing on the market is not automatic at the end of clinical trials. The sponsor must complete an application for an MA and demonstrate that it has conducted testing in the standards. ANSM verifies the robustness of the data provided in support of its request. The existing national and European legal procedures therefore already ensure the reliability of clinical trials and the relevance of marketing authorisations. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u366	Mrs Caroline Fiat, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u367	The Committee on Social Affairs has not been able to consider this amendment, which, to the general surprise, I will give a favourable personal opinion. Minister, I would like to support the example cited by François Ruffin. The members of the Social Affairs Committee interviewed representatives of Sanofi on behalf of the health mission of the PLF. However, we did not obtain any documents on clinical trials on his part – no more than the ANSM or the APESAC. Transparency must be imposed, in a context where even parliamentarians are unable to obtain documents on such important issues. I note that a European regulation will enter into force in 2020. Nevertheless, every effort must be made to ensure that the information is available in a timely and timely manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u368	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u369	I am especially speaking to you, Madam Special Rapporteur, who are being mobilised by the Dépakine dossier. You cannot say in front of us that reliability is guaranteed by the ANSM and that everything is fine. That's not true. If that were the case, we would not be faced with the enormous problem of the new Lévothyrox formula, which caused extremely serious discomfort in hundreds of thousands of women, to such an extent that they felt they were losing their bodies. This is a sign that there is sometimes a great deal of lightness, and that the pharmaceutical industry may be too easily relied upon. There is indeed a problem. I don't trust ANSM, just like millions of French people don't trust the authorities in general. By doing a job of transparency, you could restore trust. Whether it's the Levothyrox or the Dépakin, we swim in opacity. We are not aware of the studies conducted by Sanofi in the 1970s and 1980s. We don't have them! I don't have them as parliamentarians, and I don't know if the minister owns them. Perhaps they are in a lawyer's file, but we are not aware of them. Against opacity, impose transparency, not as a sign of mistrust, but in order to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u370	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u371	I want to take the time to answer, as trust in medicines is a matter of importance. I understand the concern of our fellow citizens about health scandals, particularly those of the Mediator and the Dépakin, whose effects are now known. I will take the example of the Dépakin you cited, Mr. Ruffin. Clinical trials of this very old drug go back decades. At the time, the regulation and robustness of MA notices did not meet the same rules and structure as today. With ANSM, European standards, the Huriet and Jardé laws on clinical trials, and the Bertrand law on the transparency of the pharmaceutical industry, we now have a body of legislation that makes opinions more transparent and robust. Let's not mix it up. Information about the Dépakin should probably have been known earlier. A process of compensation for victims of this medication is in place, and I am working to make it easy, readable and accessible. However, we cannot assimilate the problems posed by drugs today with those resulting from clinical trials carried out in the 1950s or 1960s, which did not meet the same rules as today. If aspirin was clinically evaluated today, it is possible that the AMM will not be granted because of its side effects! Mindset changes, and regulation changes. Even European standards will become increasingly drastic. All of this is likely to secure and reassure our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u372	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1612.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u373	If studies exist in Sanofi, and even if they date back to the 1970s or 1980s, we want to see them. As for the new Lévothyrox formula, it dates back to today and poses the same problems as yesterday. Let me turn to Amendment No 1612. The Sanofi Group, again, collects 110 to 150 million euros of research tax credit according to the years. Yet, in ten years, he has abolished 2000 research positions in France and 4000 in the world, representing one third of the total number of researchers. Sanofi thus intends to "discipline" the work of its researchers. In early 2018, it destroyed in Montpellier a new building, the DI 50, which had never been used and had just been acquired for 107 million euros. At the same time, this pharmaceutical laboratory, which ranks fourth in the world, distributes €6 billion in dividends to its shareholders. This example demonstrates the need to impose controls on public aid allocated to the pharmaceutical industry under the research tax credit. My amendment aims to make comprehensive and detailed information available to the general public on the granting of the research tax credit and other subsidies to pharmaceutical companies. The strategic choices of the latter carry with them the stakes of life and death for thousands of our fellow citizens; We cannot therefore cover them by invoking business secrecy. However, we are systematically opposed to this secret in terms of therapeutic trials, transparency of the strategy, discussions in the board of directors or the composition of the medicinal products. The stakes are too serious for the argument of business secrecy to apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u374	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u375	After the transparency of health and research, this amendment aims to create a programme dedicated to transparency in the pharmaceutical industry. I understand your concern, Mr Ruffin, but I am not sure that the creation of a budgetary programme will increase transparency in the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to an appeal amendment, I will allow the Government to respond on the merits. As the committee has not examined it, I am issuing an opinion which is unfavourable in my personal capacity, considering that we cannot reduce the appropriations for Programme 204 to transfer them to another programme whose actions are not defined or even fall outside the scope of the Health mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u376	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-07-O1059.u377	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020: Further examination of the funds of the Health and Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities missions; Review of the appropriations for the "Cohesion of Territories" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
