ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u2	We discuss the examination of the mission "Economy" and the appropriations relating to the special accounts "International Monetary Agreements" and "Lending and advances to private individuals or bodies", and of the mission "Financial commitments of the State" and the appropriations relating to the special accounts "French participation in the deleveraging of Greece", "Financial participation by the State" and "Advances to various government departments or bodies managing public services" (No. 2301, Annexes 20, 21 and 22; No 2298, Volumes VII, VIII, IX and X; No 2303, Volume VI). Mr Xavier Roseren, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u3	During the review of the finance bill, it is the task of the Special Rapporteurs to study the appropriations of their programmes in order to analyse their relevance and objectives. They must check whether the resources allocated are sufficient and whether the actions defined are coherent. The least we can say is that this task is difficult for Program 134, "Business Development and Regulation". After two budgets and the many remarks made with my colleague Olivia Gregoire, this programme remains as abundant, illegible and unresponsible for credit managers. This lack of clarity – and sometimes also transparency – does not make it possible to really appreciate the policy pursued in favour of the development of our enterprises. We can only regret it here. In addition to this, there is the break-up of actions aimed at companies that prevent them from having a global vision. I am thinking here of support for innovation, some of which is part of programme 192, which does not make it possible to assess this major axis of public support for the economy as a whole. However, we are not mistaken, improvements have been made to the consistency of the budget model: the 134 programme consists of eight actions in 2020, compared to thirteen in 2019. Similarly, we have adopted in committee an amendment by our colleague Marie-Ange Magne which makes it possible to isolate within a single action aid for press transport. We consider this line to be part of the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission, not the "Economy" mission. These initiatives are in the right direction but do not yet seem sufficient. After this general observation, we can come to the examination of the Mission's appropriations. If we put aside the increases in carbon compensation paid to electro-intensive companies, they are down 4%, or about 38 million euros. This decrease is due to several transfers, including those due to the creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories – ANCT – but also to remarkable reorganizations carried out within various administrations such as the Directorate-General for Enterprise – DGE – or the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF. One particular line, however, has called on us – like all our colleagues in the committee, regardless of their political sensitivity. This is the subsidy paid to Bpifrance for its guarantee activity. The years go by and are similar since just a year ago we were discussing exactly the same subject in the House. And since it is sometimes necessary to repeat ourselves in order to be heard, we, together with my colleague, wish to reiterate our opposition to the abolition of this subsidy. Of course, Bpifrance has the internal means to finance this activity for the year 2020 thanks to the proceeds of its dividends. However, we are joining the Court of Auditors, which considers that this practice lacks transparency and is not subject to parliamentary scrutiny. We have therefore tabled amendments on the subject. Finally, as a Member of Parliament for the Arve Valley, you will allow me to stop for a moment on the industry side. First of all, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I wanted to acknowledge the commitment made by the Government in the spring of the evaluation concerning the industrial technical centres – ITC – and the professional economic development committees – CPDE. You had announced that they would continue to be funded, and that was done in the 2020 budget. You also stated that ITCs and CPDEs that had advanced in the drafting of their objectives and performance contract – COP – would have their tax affected deflated. In the first part, we have thus deflated the tax of five ITCs. I have no doubt that this vote will encourage others to move forward in defining their COPs, which we can only welcome. Let me conclude on a question relating to competitiveness poles. Phase IV announced this year is moving in the right direction. Part of the funding of the poles will be determined according to performance criteria. As you know, part of the funding for their innovation project has been regionalised through the PSPC-regions – structural research and development projects for competitiveness. However, the call for projects was not launched for 2019, thus depriving the funding centres for major projects. Although the situation has been restored for 2020, what about the funding allocated to this envelope for 2019? As there is uncertainty about the renewal of these appropriations for the year 2020, we would like to hear from you, Madam Secretary of State, on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, this programme is difficult to understand, but it covers real issues. It affects millions of entrepreneurs and employees in all our territories. This explains the major attention – some may say the requirement – that we take to its control and evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u4	Mr Nicolas Forissier, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u5	External trade is a major issue since it is the most negative of our economic indicators, with a trade deficit of 50 to 60 billion – the balance of trade in goods and services is slightly better. The difference between the French deficit and the German surplus has averaged 300 billion in recent years. The situation is therefore very worrying, even if I want to welcome the fact that since 2018, the contribution of foreign trade to the growth of our country has become positive again, which had not happened since 2012. 2018 was the year of the announcement of a major reform of the public export support scheme. 2019 is the year of its application. For having been interested in these subjects for more than twenty years, I want to say here that the reform of the Government, consisting of the creation of a French team dedicated to export accompaniment – Team France Export – is a good reform, which meets the needs of companies, and I hope that it will be completed. I personally extend my full support to you on this specific issue. To put it frankly, the deployment of the reform is remarkable in that it has shown that the Quai d'Orsay and the General Directorate of the Treasury in Bercy were able to work together, contrary to what we have heard in the past. What I felt during my auditions was that we came out of the secret wars to move on to an extremely fruitful collaboration between the two administrations. The same applies in the regions, between regional councils – leaders in economic development –, Business France, chambers of commerce and industry, CCIs, and Bpifrance, the founding partners of Team France Export. The reform is being implemented, resulting in the development of computer tools and the installation in each region of a single contact point, a one-stop shop. All this goes in the right direction, as I myself was able to verify on the ground, especially in the region Centre-Val de Loire. However, we must ask ourselves a few questions. At the national level, can you confirm to us, Madam Secretary of State, that there will no longer be transfers of posts between the international network of the Directorate General of the Treasury and the Quai d'Orsay, but that the situation will be stabilized? At the local level, three regional signatures and two overseas territorial signatures are still needed for the reform to be fully operational on the ground. Finally, in terms of external markets, the reform is also being implemented, but in a rather heterogeneous way. Several partners, including foreign trade advisers, who are making efforts – I myself have been able to verify this – are not yet sufficiently involved. Your administration is aware of the need to involve them more. Can you also answer me on this point, as well as on the Government's willingness to move quickly? Finally – the last important point – one may have the impression that this reform, for the sake of quality, has first responded to a logic of budgetary economy, whereas it should have arisen from a willingness to meet the needs of companies. This budgetary logic is reflected in a continuous decline in public allocations to the various operators, and in particular to Business France, which will lose another EUR 10 million and 90 full-time equivalents between 2018 and 2022, which seems to me not without risk for the proper implementation of the reform. It is possible to rationalize the budget – and it is even necessary – but to some extent. Very concretely, today, Business France's endowment does not cover its payroll. The same could be said of the situation – perhaps even more violent – of the chambers of commerce and industry, responsible for accompanying the reform on the ground. These operators are thus obliged to charge companies at ever higher levels. I know that there is a distinction between large and small businesses, which benefit from more free services, but this logic can compromise our competitiveness in relation to abroad. That is why, since last year, I have been calling for a benchmarking of the public support systems in use in other countries – as is done at the enterprise level. We would then see that some foreign operators are much more competitive and able to better assist the companies in their country. In conclusion, after reiterating that this reform is in the right direction, I will observe that, for the first time, foreign trade money will balance the deficit associated with the reform of prospecting insurance – in this you have followed the conclusions and proposals I made last year...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u6	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u7	[[Mr. Frédéric Petit applause]] ...and I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u8	I call Mr Benoit Potterie, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u9	Together with my colleague François André, we are responsible for presenting this 2020 budget for the programmes 220 and 305 of the mission Économie. The 220 programme, Statistics and Economic Studies, supported by the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, saw its appropriations decrease by 1.90 %: 433 million euros are requested in payment appropriations compared with 442 million in 2019. This decrease mainly relates to staff costs – which account for 85% of program expenditures – and results in a job pattern with 67 full-time equivalents – FTEs – down. The decline in INSEE's workforce is therefore continuing, as has been the case since the 2000s. I should like to recall that in ten years, the Institute's staff has decreased by almost 12 per cent. However, this decline does not prevent real progress, since INSEE now benefits from multi-annual programming of its resources. To this end, a multi-year funding contract has been concluded between the Institute, the Directorate of Budget and the General Secretariat of the Ministries of Economic and Financial Affairs and covers the period 2019-2022. We welcome this programming, which was called for last year by the special rapporteurs of the mission. It will provide INSEE with the budgetary visibility and management flexibility it needs to implement the major projects of its Horizon 2025 strategy. However, while this contract is a great step forward, it is in no way binding. We therefore take advantage of your presence, Madam Secretary of State, to stress the need to respect it. We also bring to your attention the need to align the INSEE objectives and indicators contained in this multi-year funding contract with those contained in the Budget Blue so that parliamentary information can be aligned with the reality of the Institute's activities. With regard to Program 305, "Economic and Fiscal Strategy", it covers the expenditures of the Treasury Directorate-General and the Directorate of Tax Legislation. The appropriations requested in the PLF for 2020 are almost 405 million euros, down 4.2 % from the initial appropriations for 2019. This programme provides €230 million for the repayment of certain services carried out by the Bank of France on behalf of the State. These missions include the secretariat of the over-indebtedness commissions, for which nearly EUR 137 million is planned. Here we welcome the joint work of the Directorate-General of the Treasury and the Bank of France: it allows a reduction, year after year, of the cost of these benefits – and, a fortiori, of the subsidy paid by the State to the Bank, a decrease of 4 million compared to 2019, after a decrease of 9 million in 2018. We also draw your attention, colleagues, to the fact that the provision of "account entitlement" is for the first time repaid this year by the Treasury Branch. This new expenditure is estimated at €6 million. We will be attentive to the evolution of this figure in view of the difficulties that arise from the activity: the Banque de France indicated to us, in particular, that we observe a phenomenon of "right to the incident account", which aims to provide services to a public that was not initially the recipient – "accidental Americans", for example. These new cases, which are complex to deal with, lead to an increase in the cost of the service which the Bank of France already estimates between 3 and 4 million euros. This year, the employment pattern for the 305 program is at minus 40 FTEs, after minus 30 FTEs last year. As last year, this reduction will mainly affect the international treasury network. We would like to draw your attention, Madam Secretary of State, to the need to be vigilant about the impact of these deletions. The Treasury Branch is currently facing difficulties in the performance of some of its missions, and is increasingly forced to decline certain requests, such as those related to international comparative studies. We therefore find that the reduction in posts cannot be exempt from reflection on the scope of the missions of the international services. Finally, this programme finances the Directorate of Tax Legislation. The 2020 budget provides for a transfer of 12 FTEs from other programmes to this direction. This will, in particular, allow the creation, which we look forward to, of a local finance sub-directorate. However, we would like to point out that too many tax expenditures are still unquantified. None of those contributing to the 305 programme, for example, is costed this year in the annual performance project. In total, this gap affects 15 to 20 per cent of tax expenditures. In the continuation of the information report on the application of the tax measures submitted in July 2019 by our rapporteur-general, we call for a genuine reflection to improve the results of this exercise, which we know to be complex. Parliamentary authorisation can only be genuinely respected if Parliament has all the necessary information. I will conclude very briefly with the financial assistance account "International Monetary Agreements", designed to guarantee the anchoring of the exchange rate parity of the CFA franc on the euro and the guarantee of unlimited convertibility. As the call for security is unlikely, no credit is foreseen for 2020. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I propose that you, ladies and gentlemen, vote for the appropriations for programmes 220 and 305.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u10	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u11	"Being in debt, is it a good deal? This is the subtitle I could have given this year to my special report on the mission "Financial Commitments of the State".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u12	Good subtitle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u13	The whole question is what we're in debt for!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u14	This is also the issue that, at the moment, drives economists as well as our fellow citizens in their daily choices, such as the purchase of housing or the creation of a savings product. The context of low or even negative interest rates in many countries, and France in particular, is asking us about the normality of this situation and the economic and budgetary choices that it should inspire us. If the question of a useful public debt has led our committee, we have seen that it cannot be decorated with the economic and budgetary situation in our country. This mission, composed of 99% of the debt burden of the State, has this specificity to be a measure of the pulse of our public finances each year; In short, to reflect the weight of the past and the macroeconomic and budgetary conditions of the present. So, what about it? For 2020, the credit analysis highlights the favourable terms of the present rate. The total appropriation would amount to €38.5 billion, a decrease of $3.9 billion from the initial 2019 forecast.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u15	So it's worth borrowing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u16	More specifically, with regard to the debt burden and the State's cash flow, it would amount to EUR 38.1 billion, the lowest forecast level since 2002, even though this year the State is assuming the recovery of SNCF Réseau's debt, in order to enable the company to return to a balance path compatible with its new status. Should we be happy about this situation? Some mentioned the "tax pool" of public revenues: is there, in the same way, a pool of savings on the burden of debt, from which we could draw indefinitely? Nothing's less sure. First, if rates are low, it is mainly because central banks have reacted to the slowdown in growth and inflation and our growth has since recovered only slightly. Let us not forget that the decline in growth reduces the amount of government revenue, and that a point of growth of GDP in value amounts to 10 billion euros in additional revenue. The savings on the debt burden are therefore only the meagre offsetting of the smallest revenues due to the global economic slowdown. Then the numbers remind us of the weight of the past, like a ball or rather like a sword of Damocles above our heads. The need for state funding would thus amount to EUR 230.5 billion, an increase of 5 billion compared to 2019. This amount consists mainly of financing the government deficit for EUR 93.1 billion and depreciation of medium and long-term securities for EUR 136.4 billion. The efforts to reduce the public deficit, in which the Government and the majority are firmly committed, are only partially sufficient to erase the legacy of the past. The reduction of our debt must remain our priority, as it makes us vulnerable, in particular, to a possible increase in interest rates. It is true that economists consider that the general low-rate environment could be sustainable, but sustainable does not mean permanent! And history has shown how fast rates can rise. The existence of budgetary room for manoeuvre should therefore be nuanced. The Government and the majority have spared no effort to reduce the French deficit to 2.3 per cent of GDP; But this deficit is still one of the highest in Europe, if compared to that of our neighbours. It is the result of a high level of public expenditure, but also of political choices, which we assume, designed to respond to the social emergency and to guarantee public service. It would therefore be prudent to continue the path of reducing the government deficit in order to regain room for manoeuvre when the economic cycle turns around and a recovery is needed. This does not mean that public investment should not be increased, but rather that we should improve the quality of our spending and its efficiency. We need to continue to assess this expenditure and allocate it to investments with the highest socio-economic and environmental returns, in order to strengthen our potential growth and strengthen our skills. This requires improving the quality of the information we have on spending, and on these issues we are making progress. The creation of the OAT – a similar obligation of the Treasury – green has in particular enabled the public to have clear and transparent information on expenditure for the ecological transition. Colleagues, as Jason Furman and Lawrence Summers recently pointed out, reducing public debt is not a goal in itself. The problems of activity rates, weak growth, poverty and climate change are perhaps the most urgent. And carbon debt is a debt that we will not be able to negotiate terms with any creditor. But neither can we act as if the debt was of no importance, because the time will come when the large gap between revenue and expenditure will have to be corrected. It would be better to do so before the level of debt becomes uncontrollable and any room for manoeuvre becomes impossible to find, even though a social or climate crisis will make it more necessary than ever. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In a few words, Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, these are the main lessons learned from the appropriations of the mission "State financial commitments", which I invite our Assembly to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u17	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u18	My report covers two trust accounts and one financial assistance account. Despite the size of the budget – about EUR 100 billion, even if it is a bit of a mix of cabbages and carrots – these appropriations are those on which Parliament is completely disbanded from its powers. To tell you the substance of my thinking, I even wonder why we are debating it in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u19	[[Smile]] To have the pleasure of hearing you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u20	Maybe... Why, I said, does Parliament have no power here? The trust account "State financial participation" has 76 billion euros. This year, I decided to say things simply – a subject, a verb, a complement: Parliament cannot participate in the definition of the State's shareholder strategy. We are only spectators, reduced to commenting on the decisions taken by the Government and the State Participation Agency. Parliament is also not called upon to comment on financial movements, i.e. purchases and sales of securities. The budget that we vote on every year does not look very much like anything: for ten years, we have spent 5 billion dollars on 5 billion dollars of revenue, before raising these two sums to 10 billion each last year, for a limited movement, ultimately, to 250 million euros in the account. As we have already observed in this House, the amounts we are voting on are, we might say, fake, the aim being to avoid giving investors information. I can quite understand that, of course; But, in this case, why ask us to vote for an account on which we do not take any action? Parliament also has no power over the allocation of dividends from State holdings, simply because they are not paid to the Agency which is responsible for these holdings, but directly to the general budget. In short, ladies and gentlemen, with this special assignment account, we are spectators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u21	That's what we usually are: nothing new about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u22	I'm going to go, my dear colleague. I have already made various proposals, which I repeat this year for the third time. The first is to revise the Organic Law on Finance Laws, in order to allow Parliament and the Government to discuss the dividends to be allocated to the State Equity Agency, and those to be allocated to the general budget. I will also say a word from the fund dedicated to breaking innovation. The Court of Auditors has criticized it, and I myself have done so, as a gas plant. I recall that the Government intends to sell its stakes in La Française des jeux et Aéroports de Paris, and use the revenues thus generated to buy similar bonds from the Treasury; which means, in good French, that he intends to desend France. As for the return of this fund, it would be used to fund breaking innovation. This year, however, almost nothing has been invested in breaking innovation. The overall scheme would therefore benefit from a review.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u23	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u24	The trust account "France's participation in Greece's debt relief" is the second one covered by my report. Here again, ladies and gentlemen, we are only spectators, since this account merely reflects the decisions taken at European level, which I see more easily. I would remind you that the scheme of this fund is as follows: France collects the interest on the loans it has granted to Greece, which must fulfil a series of conditions in order for the interest to be returned to it. Indeed, the countries of the European Union have decided not to restore the interests until the conditions are met. In 2017, it was found that Greece met these conditions and therefore it was appropriate to repay the interest, as we had committed to it. The Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, told us that this would be done in 2019, but almost no repayments took place that year. This means, from the accounting point of view, that France has reduced its deficit by 1 billion euros on the back of the Greeks! Madam Secretary of State, I would like you to tell us exactly where we are on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u25	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u26	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Finally, with regard to the third financial assistance account, on state guarantees, Parliament has a little – but not much! – more room for manoeuvre. That is why, Madam Secretary of State, I would like us to engage in a genuine dialogue through the amendments. I hope that you will be receptive and that things can evolve. It would be good if Parliament could have a greater voice on strategic issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u27	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u28	Mr Antoine Herth, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u29	I, too, would like to express my appreciation for the positive results in this area, which have been marked by the recovery of our trade balance, as do my colleague Nicolas Forissier. However, I wonder how to interpret the figures. Statistics do not include new forms of trade such as e-commerce, which is expected to grow strongly, or business-to-business. However, French companies produce more from their customers than their German counterparts do, which partly explains the trade balance differential. This also explains why the dividends paid by French subsidiaries to the parent companies partially offset the external trade deficit. To have a fairer vision, we would need to put things in perspective. As the rapporteur of the committee, Nicolas Forissier, pointed out, the appropriations are falling. This is in particular the case of the budget allocation of Business France, although I have, for my part, a more positive reading of the situation after an exchange with the representatives of this structure which explain that charging their service more allows the beneficiaries to have a requirement of result in relation to their delivery.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u30	We can rest assured!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u31	It is an economic model which has the merit of being innovative and which, for the time being, gives satisfaction. On the other hand, like my colleague Xavier Roseren, I am dismayed by the fate of the line on Bpifrance's guarantee activity and I too will defend amendments aimed at restoring its appropriations. It is therefore a wisdom opinion that I have given on this budget. I have devoted the thematic part of my report to two important topics. First, like Nicolas Forissier, I was interested in the deployment of the Team France Export, which has been very satisfying for two years. I wonder, however, how much the regions, the new partners of the Team, have adapted to the subject of export. Next year, it will be necessary to explore in more detail, with the Association des régions de France or certain regions particularly mobilized on the subject, how they can add value to the scheme. In any case, it is a very nice reform that is taking place. Secondly, I decided to go back to the situation of the agricultural sectors facing trade agreements, signed or under negotiation. This summer's tensions, in the context of the ratification of CETA – the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – made it necessary to objectify the situation and to maintain a dialogue between professionals and national representation. In order to prepare my report, I have received representatives from seven sectors: the animal production sectors – beef, swine and poultry – the traditional export sectors such as the sugar sector or the cereals and oilseeds sector, the wine and spirits sector – which is particularly important in the commercial results – and the dairy sector. The situation of these different export sectors is very variable: some are very exporting, others are discovering the subject. I would like to point out that in our work in the National Assembly, we never pay attention to the competitiveness of the agri-food sector. We should ask ourselves this question more before we make decisions. I therefore wonder how the announcements made yesterday by the Minister for Agriculture will affect the ability of certain sectors to remain competitive. [[Mrs Lise Magnier and Mr Cendra Motin and Mr Frédéric Petit applaud]] In general, we must pay close attention to the situation in the sector because, apart from wines and spirits, France's results in the agri-food sector are not brilliant. According to a report by our colleague, Senator Laurent Duplomb, in 2023, our country will no longer have a trade surplus in agriculture. It is up to us, therefore, to convince farmers in our territories that trade agreements, improperly referred to as free trade agreements – this qualification is only available in our country – do not open the door to the law of the strongest, but instead lay down the rules of open but regulated trade, which must help to strengthen agricultural incomes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u32	Mrs Christine Hennion, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u33	The year 2020 will be decisive in the field of telecommunications. It confronts us with three challenges: fibre, 4G and 5G. Before we discuss them, we will mention the increase in appropriations allocated to ARCEP – the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and Distribution of the Press – and to ANFR – the National Frequency Agency. This is a responsible decision that will allow these two actors to respond to their new tasks, including the new press distribution regulatory mission for ARCEP. With regard to the three challenges I mentioned in the introduction, and in the first place fibre, in 2020, France's very high-speed plan sets as its objective the access of all French people to the right flow – at least 8 megabits per second – which is now essential to access increasingly dematerialised public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u34	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u35	This objective will be achieved in accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u36	That's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u37	The achievement of this objective is an essential milestone in measuring progress and in fuelling an acceleration momentum to reach the very high speed for all by 2022 and to reach the European target: 100% fibre by 2025. In this regard, the acceleration of fibre deployments in 2019, reaching a rate of 4 million take per year, is a boon and must be continued for the benefit of the entire territory. Overall, the targets will be met, provided, however, that the resources are put over the last kilometre. While the connection of this service is often the most expensive, it is also the most essential to ensure that our citizens have equal access to this service throughout the country. Following my report on the same subject last year, the Government undertook to assess the needs of France's very high-speed plan and to adapt it accordingly. In this sense, I welcome the decision to sanctuarise the €140 million saved to support twenty-five of the most difficult departments. In addition, it is estimated that approximately EUR 150 million will eventually be reinjected. The Secretary of State will have to make the players aware of the composition of the appropriations saved, but above all of the legal and operational arrangements for their redeployment. I know that a specification has been requested from the administration for this purpose, with a view to a call for projects in early 2020. However, it is necessary to make the model more flexible in the light of the evaluation – 400 million euros – presented by the Digital Agency. I shall return to this point when we vote on the amendments. Let us now turn to the second challenge before us: what about 4G? The "New Deal Mobile" was a real bet and the results are positive. At the beginning of 2019, more than 10700 sites were moved to 4G coverage, bringing the total number of sites to 66000. Progress has been made in terms of "in-door" and roadside coverage. Only the targeted coverage should be monitored, as very few sites are currently in place. More generally, I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the change in the economic model that is taking place in some telecom operators. Indeed, they are increasingly reselling some of their infrastructures before re-renting them to create a financing capacity. We need to ensure that this movement does not obviate their ability to honour all their commitments. Third and last point: 5G. The process is underway since the year 2020 will be marked by the allocation of frequencies in the 3.5 gigahertz band. On 7 October, ARCEP presented the first eleven experimental projects which will finally go beyond technical considerations to talk about usage. Nor should we forget, Madam Secretary of State, that ANSES – the National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and Labour – and ANFR must propose methods of evaluating this technology, and that we must discuss it. Attention should also be paid to the set reserve price to ensure that operators are encouraged to deploy 5G rapidly, in line with ARCEP's objectives. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a global issue: a recasting of telecom operators' taxation seems essential in order to improve readability and not to curb investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u38	Thank you, Mrs Hennion, I should like to note that you are the only one who has respected the speaking time! The floor is for Mr Rémi Delatte, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs – who has decided to do as well as you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u39	As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the appropriations allocated to enterprises under programme 134, I regret the lack of readability and consistency of the budget model, which undermines the effectiveness of parliamentary control over the proper use of public funds. With regard to the appropriations that the State spends on our businesses, while the fiscal lever remains the most important, the accompanying and support budgetary measures, much expected in our territories, decrease year after year or even disappear. The increase in the appropriations for the 134 programme planned for 2020 appears to be troubling: the carbon compensation scheme set aside, the 2020 budget is in fact continuing a movement that has begun for several years, which consists of gradually emptying the 134 programme of its substance. In 2019, the Government abolishes the budget allocation for the guarantee activity of Bpifrance and places in extinct management the FISAC – Intervention Fund for the Protection of Crafts and Commerce. In 2020, the budgetary effort to support export support firms is in turn decreasing, while measures for competitiveness clusters appear to be confusing. On the other hand, the State withdraws from its support for the craft trades; I am particularly sensitive to this and will defend an amendment on this subject, adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. In essence, retrace the evolution of the appropriations of programme 134 amounts to making a list to the Prévert of the budget cuts of which small enterprises are the first victims, even though they are major players in the vitality of the local economic fabric. While the effort to rationalise the use of public funds is a commendable step, one can only regret the logic of the budgetary plan without a real strategy for spending and the effectiveness of public action. Ladies and gentlemen, in mirroring my negative opinion on this budget, I have devoted the thematic part of my report to the issue of the local economy. As you know, the difficulties faced by this sector are fuelling the risk of commercial and artisanal devitalisation. In the face of this situation, the signals sent by the Government are very contradictory. On the one hand, many appropriate mechanisms are now threatened, if not simply removed. This is the case with FISAC and the Bpifrance guarantee; But I am also thinking of the decline in the resources allocated to chambers of commerce and industry, or of the uncertainty about the future of rural revitalisation areas, whose relevance is unanimously recognised. On the other hand, new mechanisms are being put in place but difficult to produce concrete effects and to convince on the ground. This is the case with the National Action Plan, which has many shortcomings. Thus, stakeholders, especially communities, are insufficiently involved in the conventions. In addition, the economic component is currently in the middle of the agenda. Above all, the city centres and rural areas remain the great forgotten of this policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u40	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u41	That is why I propose in my report that a programme which is at least as ambitious as that provided for in the core city action plan be set up for rural areas. Clearly, the other tools proposed by the Government to combat the risk of devitalization fall short of the challenges. Thus, the tax exemptions for isolated rural communities and the revitalization of the territory will be too limited in scope, firstly because they are optional, and secondly because they will deprive the municipalities, already exsangued, of budgetary resources. For all these reasons, a new impetus must be given to commercial and craft revitalization. In this sense, I believe that the establishment of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories – ANCT – is a boon if it fully integrates the tasks previously carried out by the national public institution for the development and restructuring of commercial and craft spaces – EPARECA. It must also be an opportunity to rethink in a broader way the steering of the artisanal and commercial revitalization, first in a partnership approach between private and public actors, then in a cross-cutting approach, with the other levers to be used to support the players in the sector. The new strategy for trade and crafts that you announced, Madam Secretary of State, is of interest. Some common sense measures are included, such as raising the exemption threshold for public procurement. The announced plan will have to express real ambition, build on a strategic vision and be equipped with resources. To date, however, no additional funding has been envisaged. As parliamentarians, let us ensure that good intentions are translated into reality because the announcement of this strategy raises strong expectations on the ground. [[Mr. Nicolas Forissier, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] Colleagues, I thank you for listening to these vital issues for our businesses and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u42	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u43	First of all, I would like to thank our colleague Fabien Roussel, a member of the Finance Committee, with whom I conducted my work. We are looking at the industry budget in a very specific context. I am thinking in particular of the rescue of the Ascoval steelworks or the judicial liquidation of the Arjowiggins stationery. All regions are affected by the decline in industrial employment. Bruno Le Maire, absent this morning, is aware of this since he mentioned two weeks ago a risk of "productive decommissioning". It is therefore more necessary than ever to question the levers that the State has to preserve our industrial heritage. De-industrialization, from our point of view, is not inevitable. The gap between this alleged awareness and the actions taken by the Government is great. No tax decisions will be made until the PLF for 2021. The budget allocated to industry in the PLF for 2020 is disappointing. I have focused my attention on Action 23 of Programme 134, which brings together funding for actions to support industrial policy, i.e. just over EUR 315 million. The increase in credits is only due to the increase in carbon compensation at electro-intensive sites. I would point out that this scheme only compensates for the impact of carbon quotas on the price of electricity; it is not enough to accompany the environmental transition of the industrial sector – we have deplored it several times. Other intervention expenditure for industry is down 13.3% compared to last year's appropriations. There is considerable uncertainty as to whether the State may withdraw from financing competitiveness poles for the benefit of the regions as early as 2020. No financial compensation is foreseen for the regions, so, Madam Secretary of State, I would like you to clarify the position of the Government. We have tabled amendments in the Committee on Economic Affairs to strengthen support for our industries. Regrettably, they were all rejected without the full justification of their rejection. For all these reasons, I gave an opinion in committee against the appropriations allocated to industry in the PLF for 2020, while the committee gave a favourable opinion. We have chosen, together with Fabien Roussel, to devote the thematic part of our report to the support that the State provides to industrial enterprises in difficulty. In particular, we have studied the loans of the Economic and Social Development Fund – FDES. These are loans granted by the State to assist companies which are fragile or in proven difficulty, but which nevertheless have prospects for results and a market. According to our auditions, the interest rates associated with these loans could go – listen carefully – up to almost 20%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u44	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u45	This means that, even though these companies are experiencing difficulties in financing themselves in the private market, the State lends them money at rates far higher than those on the market. The European rules require the State to lend on the same terms as the private lenders involved in the round table. However, and this is the subject of the report, we lack in France banks and private investors offering relatively low rates and allowing the State to align itself with their conditions. The adage that banks lend only to the rich is verified... It therefore seems useful for the State to promote the emergence of new actors on which it can rely to help industries in difficulty. We must at all costs prevent our industries from falling into the hands of vultures that thrive through corporate bankruptcies. The report proposes three avenues for the emergence of real industrial investors. The first is to create a label identifying responsible return funds, i.e. funds that comply with strict conditions regarding environmental liability and the maintenance of business in France. These responsible funds would then be assured of the financial participation of the State alongside them in the event of investment in a company in difficulty. Second track: create a public-private return fund. I recall that this idea is not new, it was that of Emmanuel Macron when he was Minister of the Economy. This fund would distinguish itself from private funds such as LBO funds – raising buy-out – which follow a purely speculative logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u47	Finally, third, funds must be made available, specialising in each sector, to help vulnerable companies. The idea would be to draw on the car equipment modernization fund set up in 2009 which proved its usefulness during the crisis. [[MM. Jean-Paul Lecocq and Fabien Roussel applaud]] You're going to tell me that the state can't invest anywhere, all the time. The report stresses the need to develop an offensive industrial strategy allowing the identification of structuring sectors for the future of French industry. The decision whether or not to save certain companies is political. We hope that the report's proposals will provide a basis for reflection on how to improve the effectiveness of the means available to the State to assist firms in difficulty. In the absence of the Minister of Economy and Finance, the Secretary of State, I would like to know what you think of the report's proposals, in particular the proposal to create a public-private return fund for firms in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u48	I call Mr Buon Tan, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u49	Let me start by saying a few words about the situation of our external trade and the international situation. This year, international trade may be close to stagnation. Growth forecasts are revised downwards in almost all countries. This is largely the result of the trade war between the United States and China, which has a significant direct impact on trade and, above all, maintains a climate of distrust and discourages investment. In this context, the French economy as a whole and, in particular, foreign trade are quite well positioned to play their part. The trade deficit is stabilized at EUR 60 billion for 2018 and even decreases by EUR 5 billion in the rolling year. For the first time since 2012, foreign trade has helped boost growth. Our attractiveness for foreign investment continues as it declines in the United Kingdom and Germany. I see in all this the result of the reforms that have been under way for several years for the competitiveness, innovation and internationalisation of our companies. However, these encouraging results should not mask the risks associated with the international economic environment, including tensions between the United States and China and the slowdown in world trade. As for the taxes imposed by the United States since 18 October, they could cost the aviation industry more than 500 million euros and the wine sector nearly 400 million euros. Finally, let us recall the risks associated with Brexit: the United Kingdom is our third trading partner and it is with it that we have our first bilateral surplus. All these risks have led me to wonder about the destinations where growth is dynamic, and which could be new growth relays for our foreign trade. I have identified three main areas: Central and Eastern Europe, South-East Asia and Africa. More generally, a medium-term strategy should guide us. In particular, I recommend reinvigorating the medium-term strategic thinking on geographies and sectors, identifying "country-sector pairs" that must become the priority of all actors in foreign trade. I now come to the organisation of our system of accompanying exporters. I'll talk about starting a real satisfaction. For several years, we have tried to better work together the various networks concerned by having them sign charters, conventions, but all this without much results. However, for the past year, the situation has changed: we have embarked on a much more integrated reform with an obligation for each other to work hand in hand, to share their information and customer files, in order to provide a comprehensive and coordinated journey for exporters. It's Team France Export. And this device works: the new IT tools were deployed in record time; a solution has been found for their financing; Business France has left its place to local players in countries where they have been judged to be more efficient; Finally, almost all metropolitan areas have already joined the scheme. In my view, Team France Export is a first step towards simplifying, legibility and visibility of our foreign trade policy. How can we accept that a sector that weighs 22% of our gross domestic product does not have a dedicated minister and that its funding is broken down between different budget lines depending on several ministries? Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, whose involvement and pragmatism I salute, plays this role but does not have the title, which sometimes poses a problem. So we need a dedicated budget with a dedicated minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u51	Finally, I welcome the Government's willingness to revive the French brand, which should be declined internationally through "houses de France" and "counters de France". I also wanted to take stock of public export insurance. My report notes a very positive point: the revival of prospecting insurance, which translates into an increase of 41% in the exploration budgets covered in 2018. However, several questions remain. First of all, what product was designed to finance the international exploration of the smallest companies, when the "first steps" prospecting insurance, the A3P, which was dedicated to them, was scheduled to cease? More generally, there is a debate on the modalities of the management of export insurance, shared between the State and Bpifrance under conditions that do not seem to me to be the most effective. I am also thinking of the recurring profits generated by credit insurance. On average, 800 million euros have been returned to the general budget for more than 20 years. Shouldn't we reinject a very small part of it into export support? Finally, there is the issue of the consistency of this credit insurance policy with our international commitments and priorities. I am thinking here of our environmental and development objectives and of promoting the international role of the euro. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted an amendment to initiate an exchange with the Government on all these issues. I have also tabled an amendment of appropriations which I will present earlier. In the meantime, I invite you to vote for foreign trade credits by recalling the great satisfaction of the success of the Team France Export reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u52	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u53	The aim of the "Economy" mission's appropriations is to encourage the creation of an environment conducive to the sustainable and balanced growth of the French economy, i.e. to promote employment, the competitiveness of enterprises and the development of exports, and to ensure the protection and safety of citizens and consumers. When we discovered the appropriations for this mission for 2020, we could have been happy. In line with the Government's announcements, payment appropriations are increasing by 20 per cent, amounting to almost 400 million euros, particularly towards the most substantial programmes. Unfortunately, it is, as always, smoke screens! After the wanderings of the majority during the debates of the law of 22 May 2019 on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE, marked by the absence of a major measure to combat the deterioration of the French productive fabric,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u54	How can we say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u55	...we were entitled to hope for a combat budget that would strengthen fragile growth and threatened by a deteriorating economic situation and global trade tensions. But the account isn't there! In this budget, the Government's lack of vision is palpable. The increase of approximately EUR 120 million in the appropriations of the 134 programme "Business development and regulation", which is mainly captured by greater support for companies in the form of carbon compensation for electro-intensive sites, conceals the fact that this programme is being emptied every year a little more of its content. With the abolition of FISAC, the absence of a budget line for Bpifrance's guarantee activities, the reduction of support for the arts and the competitiveness poles, you are operating budget restrictions where our effort should be concentrated. We have no doubt that this budget will not meet the expectations of entrepreneurs and that, under such auspices, the devitalization of the city centres and the deindustrialization of our country will continue with the effects of a time bomb. On the other hand, we welcome the deployment of the very high-speed France plan, particularly expected in our territories mined by the white zones. In these poorly connected territories, where there is a combination of less quality of life and economic development, our fellow citizens suffer the double penalty. But converging analyses seem to indicate that there is a lack of funding to achieve the ambitions we all share. However, more than 300 million euros still have to be mobilised to finance projects ready to start, particularly in the end-to-end fibre, the FTTH – from the English fiber to the home. Members of the Republican Group will support amendments on this subject. I know that you will be able to accompany us in our ambition to speed up the deployment of this equipment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] While we are hearing about a PACTE 2 law, we are still looking for reasons to hope. Last week, in a concert of praises about unemployment figures, we heard in the majority that France was doing better than its partners, and that is so much better. But for how long? Watch out for the back of the stick! Soon, the difficulties faced by the companies of our European partners will affect us: the impact on employment, particularly industrial ones, could be terrible. This budget does nothing to avoid such a future, as a result, Members of the Republican Group will not vote for the appropriations for this mission!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u56	What a caricature! I'm sure he didn't even read the first PACTE law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u57	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u58	The mission we are looking at this morning's credits is complex and multifaceted. However, it is, in all its components, the translation of the actions undertaken by the Government to boost and modernize the management of our State. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, I would therefore like to encourage it in this direction. We are committed to a dynamic of assigning to our administration the ambitious objective of better adapting to the economic situation as well as to the changes in the national entrepreneurial fabric or – I stress this – international. We also welcome the progress made towards a sober, reasoned and concerted management of public funds. The modernisation of the Directorate-General for Enterprise – the Directorate-General for Enterprise – is timely, as well as the overhaul of the State networks abroad, carried out with the assistance of the Directorate-General for the Treasury. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to devote a moment to this reform. I have been an advisor to France's foreign trade – CCE – for the last ten years and, as you know, I live abroad. I was therefore delighted to hear a special rapporteur cite the CECs. Similarly, I am pleased that another speaker spoke of foreign direct investment, because these FDI are very rarely taken into account in the political analysis of our trade balance. However, the stock of French direct investment abroad amounts, if I am not mistaken, to more than EUR 1200 billion, with an annual flow of around 50 billion. To say that we have a deficit in our trade balance is one thing, but not to compare it with the amount of FDI is, in my view, a mistake. France's foreign trade advisers very often raise this issue. I would like to recall that the EACs are volunteers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u60	They are even in their pocket since they contribute to their association – the CNCCEF, the national committee of foreign trade advisers of France – for about 800 euros per month. I make it clear that I am not taking them out of my money advance. For my part, I negotiated with the National Assembly, on the one hand, and with the CNCCEF, on the other, so that I could remain a member of the Europe Commission of the National Committee as a Member of Parliament. I like this double position that allows me to provide specific lighting in each instance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u61	[[Smile]] This is the beginning of the renewal of cumulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u62	I do not see what is shocking to remain a member of an association by paying its contribution on its personal money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u64	I return to the reform of export support, drawing the Government's attention to its regional and territorial aspect. I am very vigilant and I invite you to show the same caution regarding regionalisation: it is certainly unanimous, but is it a movement towards the prefectures towards the regional councils?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u65	By the Regional Council!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u66	I heard this morning that we were wondering about the added value of the regional councils at Team France Export. This question is, in my opinion, of little relevance. Might as well wonder what the operator's added value is, which is democratically designated to encourage companies! This is the role of the Regional Council. It is in this sense that we must take things. We talked about it, there was a war between the administration, on the one hand, and elected officials and volunteers, on the other. In this context, it is up to us to be vigilant: it is the regional councils that are responsible for accompanying companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u67	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u68	I will support an amendment on this subject at the end of the sitting. In another register, our group calls on the Government to follow the recommendation of the Court of Auditors concerning the "Economy" mission. This mission covers extremely varied subjects, which introduces a kind of unknown – if one wants to remain correct – in parliamentary work. The names of some programs are still relatively vague and sometimes confusing. As I have already said, there are also inconsistencies with regard to the action "International development of enterprises and attractiveness of the territory", which finances the activity of Business France, but not that of the economic services of the Directorate-General for Enterprise. As for the appropriations allocated to the Treasury Directorate-General, they are part of another programme. Accordingly, the MODEM and related group calls on the Government to continue to work to clarify the overall architecture of the mission and its programmes. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Ms Olivia Gregoire and Ms Bénédicte Peyrol, Special Rapporteurs, also applaud]] Despite my reservations, the MODEM and related groups will support the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u69	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u70	The appropriations of the mission "Economy" appear facially – I insist on this term – increasing, as the appropriations of the mission increase, between 2019 and 2020, from 1.94 billion euros to 2.32 billion euros. However, the devil, as always, in the details, this progression is misleading, as has already been pointed out. In fact, most of this increase relates to the carbon compensation scheme in favour of electro-intensive enterprises. In other words, the more active and carbon-emitting these companies, the more credits for export support, for very small businesses and for Bpifrance decrease. The effect is mechanical, it is the principle of communicating vases. As our colleague Fabien Roussel said, this is the reversal of the "polluter pays" principle. If we set aside what is part of the clearing mechanism, we realize that the Mission's appropriations are down by 70 million euros compared to 2019. Thus, Business France's credits are falling, and the same goes for Bpifrance Assurance Export. In the 2019 Finance Bill, the Government had abolished the budget appropriations for the development of TPEs and SMEs covered by Bpifrance's operations Financing in guarantee and co-financing. However, thanks to the intervention of Mrs Olivia Gregoire, if my memory is good, the budget line had finally been kept at the symbolic level of 10000 euros. This inconsequential decision led Bpifrance to mobilise exceptional dividends in an attempt to maintain the shares previously financed by these credits. In 2019, EUR 150 million of exceptional dividends were mobilised, even though the cash support fund for TPE and SMEs was reduced and the own funds guarantee scheme was abolished. As for Bpifrance's classic guarantee, it is charged more expensively to banks that mechanically pass on this cost. It has increased by 200 basis points, or 2%, which is huge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u71	This is the most expensive guarantee in Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u72	You're right, my colleague. You can see, Madam Secretary of State, that the account is not there at all. You cannot explain that you want to support TPEs and SMEs and, at the same time, charge them the highest guarantee cost in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u73	The "at the same time", it doesn't always work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u74	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u75	Almost never, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u76	The only reason for this budget's satisfaction is the increase in the "public initiative networks" action, which aims to co-finance projects for the deployment of high-speed network infrastructures in local authorities. While only commitment authorisations, amounting to €208 million, were opened in 2018, 2019 was the first year in which we experienced the actual commitment of payment appropriations, amounting to €175.9 million. For 2020, the Government has allocated €440 million in payment appropriations under this action. It provides for a very high-speed coverage rate of 85% – compared to 83% in 2019. This is a small improvement, but it is very real and deserves to be stressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u77	Even if territorial inequalities remain!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u78	While significant, this level of commitment is still insufficient to meet the target set by 2022. This would require the commitment of additional appropriations for 2021 and 2022. We will have an opportunity to discuss this during the review of future financial laws. Madam Secretary of State, can you already give us some indication of how the Government intends to mobilize in the coming years to reach the target of 100 per cent coverage by 2022? Finally, with regard to foreign trade, I have pointed out the decrease in the resources of operators in France's export ecosystem. On the eve of Brexit, in a context of increased global competition, this does not seem sustainable. Could you give us details of the means mobilized by the State to deal with the consequences of Brexit, with or without "deal", and inform us of the position of the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u79	We must conclude, Mrs. Rabault!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u80	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] ...with regard to the trade treaty with MERCOSUR, the South American Common Market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u82	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u83	The budgetary debate which brings us together this morning concerns seven special missions and accounts. The appropriations of the mission "Financial commitments of the State" are intended to ensure the financing of the State in all circumstances, to guarantee its positions related to the international development of the French economy and to promote savings policies. But the mission mainly covers the public debt burden, which accounts for 99 per cent of its appropriations. The reduction in these appropriations – EUR 4 billion in 2020 out of a total of more than 38 billion – could be welcomed, especially since this decrease is due in particular to the reduction in the debt burden. However, this is only the result of the European Central Bank's negative interest rate policy, and in no way the result of our country's efforts to reduce public spending and debt relief.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u84	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u85	Moreover, the government's nominal debt is in sharp increase from €1806 billion in 2019 to €1891 billion in 2020. We continue to live on debt: let us remember that in 2020, one euro out of four public expenditure will be financed by it. However, this debt is a source of intergenerational injustice, firstly because we live on credit at the expense of future generations, but above all because it undermines our capacity for public investment. As we have already said, in the current context of economic uncertainty and deteriorating growth prospects, there is an urgent need for a structural debt reduction effort to achieve the Government's target of reducing public debt by 5 percentage points of GDP. On the one hand, it is necessary to avoid any difficulties in the event of rising rates, on the other hand, to find room for manoeuvre, last but not least, to fulfil the commitments made by the President of the Republic before the French. I come to the "Economy" mission and, to begin with, privatisation. Madam Secretary of State, could you tell us the status of the divestitures provided for by the PACTE law concerning French gaming, Engie and Aéroports de Paris? Members of the IUD, Agir and Independent Group also note that the "Economy" mission has again devoted, for three years now, a reduction in the budget allocated to the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention, DGCCRF. Since 2018, its budget has increased from about 242 million euros to 226 million euros, and it has seen its staff cut by about 50 posts per year. Given the proliferation of food scandals and the Government's ever-reaffirmed commitment to effectively combat any form of fraud, the recurring decline in the budget and staff of the DGCCRF raises a real issue. The "Economy" mission finally includes, for the second year, credits for France's very high-speed plan, i.e. more than 400 million euros. As in 2019, this amount remains below the forecast table presented in the 2018 budget document. It is insufficient to meet the financial needs of communities whose public initiative network projects are ready to be launched. We deeply regret that the resources do not meet this major challenge for all of our territories. Before concluding, I would like to address the subject of foreign trade. As has been said, the French agricultural surplus was divided by two, in current euros, between 2011 and 2017, which is a historical decline, for which we are solely responsible: the standards and burdens we impose on our farmers put them in great difficulty in a world-wide ultra-competitive sector. The farmers are sounding the alarm, but you do not want to hear them, despite our insistence and clear figures. We're very worried. The results of the 2018-2022 export strategic plan are waiting and you will further decrease the credits of Business France. Our colleague Antoine Herth, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, rightly questioned the reduction in the remuneration of Bpifrance Assurance Export. [[Olivia Gregoire, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] In conclusion, Madam Secretary of State, whether it is the essential reduction in our debt or our ability to improve the situation of our trade balance, we are concerned about the credits of the "Economy" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u86	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u87	It is difficult to mention in five minutes no less than two missions and five special accounts. The "Economy" mission brings together very different subjects such as the France very high-speed plan – France THD – the carbon compensation mechanism for the electro-intensive industries or the refocusing of the tasks of the regional management of companies, of competition, of consumption, of work and of employment, the DIRECCTE. I shall therefore concentrate on analysing only a few items of expenditure and the guidelines they draw up for our economic and industrial policy. As far as industrial policy is concerned, Members of the Liberties and Territories Group regret the persistence of a number of weaknesses. Industry's share of GDP has increased from 17% to 12% over the past two decades, leading to a decline in employment, devitalization of territories and an imbalance in the trade balance. We are all aware of the devastation caused by the industrial crisis. The Government has set itself industrial development and innovation targets in the 2025 Productive Compact and the 2018-2022 Major Investment Plan. However, the "Industries and services" action focuses mainly on the carbon compensation mechanism for the electro-intensive industries, which is not bad in itself, but probably leads to neglect of other intervention expenditure in favour of industry, down 13.3%. We also regret that actions that contribute to market regulation, economic protection and consumer safety are being scaled up, just as we are concerned about the Government's decisions to support our businesses, first and foremost local businesses. At a time when our territories are alarmed at the devitalization of the city centres, FISAC has been put into extinct management since the last finance bill, without providing that equivalent resources have been allocated to the city's core action plan. International support for our SMEs and middle-sized institutions – ETI – also suffers from certain weaknesses. As we know, the imbalance in the trade balance is, at least in part, linked to the difficulties of these companies in promoting their assets internationally. We must therefore rethink the mechanism to accompany them to export. A first project, which goes in the right direction, was launched by Business France under the name "Team France Export". It coordinates the actors who accompany our companies – Business France, BPI, regional councils and KICs – and aims to create a one-stop shop per region. Paradoxically, this draft finance law reflects a decrease in the resources of the main operators, the CCIs and Business France. In a context of shrinking global growth, however, the resources of the BPI should be strengthened. Some of the amendments we have tabled are aimed at restoring appropriations for this mission. It must be said that the BPI brings financial engineering that is crucial to the productive fabric, in particular by supporting research and innovation. Another area of concern is the digital divide. Today, half of the national territory does not have access to broadband, which affects the economic attractiveness and employment of the regions concerned. Intended to cover the entire territory on very high-speed internet by 2022, the France THD plan sees its financing sustained, particularly towards areas less dense in public initiative networks. In this regard, we welcome the Government's decision to reverse its decision to close the France THD window by allocating EUR 140 million. We hope that this amount will be sufficient to achieve the objectives set. Inequalities are also felt in the deployment of 4G. Operators are struggling to meet the commitments made in January 2018 under the New Mobile Deal. Almost a year after the first decrees delineating the areas covered by the targeted coverage scheme, the number of sites under construction remains very low. I will only refer to the special trust account "State financial contributions". The privatisation of French gaming is on the table, unlike that of Aéroports de Paris – ADP – which, as we know, is currently suspended. I want to reiterate the position of the members of the Libertés et Territoires group on these privatisations and on the project of dedicated funds, whose only dividends would actually finance innovation. In our view, it is a threefold economic, strategic and historical fault. A word, finally, of program 869, to evoke the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project. The creation of infrastructure is always and everywhere an indispensable basis for progress. We want this major project to be part of a global traffic pattern for the north of the Parisian agglomeration. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Fabien Roussel also applauds]] In short, while the international context gives rise to fears of a new economic crisis, we believe that our businesses – they are the ones that provide goods and services, create jobs, export and sustain the territories – must be given ever more means so that they can adapt to the challenges ahead and create the environment that is most conducive to their vitality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u88	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u89	This budget discussion covers seven missions and accounts that are not directly related to each other. Having only five minutes, I will focus on the most important, the special trust account "State financial participations", which concerns privatizations. In this area, the objectives of the State, as set out in the budget document, are to "ensure an increase in the value of its financial participations" and to "ensure the success of the divestiture operations of some of its financial participations. » The objectives which the Group of the European People's Party considers to be of priority are not mentioned. The most important of these is to ensure that there are no divestitures of strategic companies, such as the energy sector, or of publicly profitable companies, such as highway companies. The performance indicators selected by the Government are financial in nature only. We believe that other criteria should be taken into account, such as loss of sovereignty, risks to users and users of gambling, or the safety of passengers and passengers in the airport sector. Prices, but also the general ecological interest – which is not taken into account in the case of ADP, for example – and long-term investments are also at the heart of the stakes. Furthermore, we do not find that the performance indicators chosen by the Government reflect actual performance. I am thinking in particular of the indicator "Share of resources devoted to the debt relief of the State and of public administrations". We are opposed to reselling public interests in order to get out of debt. In our view, this indicator is an indicator of counter-performance. I would also like to review the transfer of securities from La Poste to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. This possibility was passed in the PACTE law by means of a last-minute amendment by the Government, thus without impact assessment, which is critical of form and which, on the merits, presents several dangers. What about the subsidies for public service charges currently granted to La Poste? We fear that the underlying objective will eventually be to privatize the Postal Bank, with the transfer of deposits to the Caisse des dépôts as a first step. If this is not the unconvinced purpose, then why is this transfer at the very moment when the Fund's governance is being changed? The official objective is to develop La Poste's banking activities to compensate for the drop in mail. For our part, we oppose the objective of the underlying profitability of this rapprochement and propose to create a real public banking hub, in a public service logic. La Poste must also be given the means to ensure the postal service and the networking of the territories, through a humane management of its agents and not a management strategy that causes suffering at work and suicides. Finally, we are particularly opposed to the privatisations voted under the CAPTE law. Aéroports de Paris is currently the subject of a major campaign in favour of a joint initiative referendum. We reiterate our support for this approach and call on the largest number of our fellow citizens to participate in it in order to decide on this operation. It must be said again, the privatization of ADP would lead to a significant loss of sovereignty, because an airport is a border, but it is also an economic nonsense,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u90	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u91	... which poses a risk to the preservation of environmental interests. When we know the need to regulate and reduce air traffic in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we understand that today, more than ever, we need to maintain ADP in a state of public monopoly. There is also a risk to staff. Since the opening of capital in 2005, the number of employees has steadily decreased, even though traffic has doubled, and the share of wages in value added has increased from 41% to 29%. These downsizing will affect the quality of the proposed public service. I have already mentioned, for the French game, the importance of control of addictions. It is also a profitable business, for which the question of money laundering arises. As for Engie, it is also a strategic undertaking in terms of ecological transition. More generally, we oppose the neoliberal and narrow vision of the role of the underlying state in these different projects. We will propose amendments to reinvest, in the long term, in airports and the energy sector. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In general, Members of the La France group do not believe that this draft budget for 2020 runs counter to the country's social and ecological interests. That is why, on the mission "Economy" as on others, we will adopt a position of opposition. We will alternatively propose a budget dedicated to social emergency and a budget dedicated to ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u92	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u93	Let me mention, Madam Secretary of State, following my colleague Sébastien Jumel, the means used by the State to preserve our industry, particularly our industrial enterprises in difficulty. As you know: industry's share of GDP has increased in our country from 17% to 12% in 20 years; 100 factories per year have been closed for 10 years, 1 million direct industrial jobs have been abolished. The target of 15 per cent by 2025 and 20 per cent by 2035 seems far from being achieved. Of course, the sector has been creating jobs since 2018, but in very small quantities and after a very long period of decline. The companies in difficulty, the closures in progress, particularly at General Electric, the threats that weigh on many sectors, particularly in the paper industry, in the energy sector and in the automotive sector, must cause us serious concern. In 2018, no fewer than 3,706 companies were liquidated. If we want to get our industry back up, we'll have to put a garrote on that hemorrhage first. The aim is to regain the jobs lost, but also to create more jobs because there is a total shortage of 2 million jobs in the industry in France. The hearings carried out with my colleague Sébastien Jumel have shown that, above all, there is a need for a much more coherent and declining sector-by-sector industrial strategy on the part of the State. The Government chooses to invest in breaking innovation by privatizing Aéroports de Paris, the French of the Games and by transferring the shares of the state in Renault and Engie, but it sets aside the manufacturing industry, the production of machinery, equipment and consumer goods that our country also needs. The Government says that we will never be as competitive as low-cost countries in these niches. Well, we tell you the opposite! For if we add up the cost of unemployment, more generally the social cost of poverty borne by the state and the communities, and the ecological cost of importing manufactured goods, all this costs more to the country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u94	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u95	...more expensive than if we relocated a maximum of these productions here. During the hearings, we also worked on the various mechanisms to support firms in difficulty: they are numerous and varied, ranging from the timing of social debt to its cancellation, and different services are mobilised at the level of the state or regions, which are often present, as are the agglomerations. But around the table, there is often a lack of an essential player: banks. They're not here, or so little. And because: they lend only to the rich, or in any case to companies that go very well or to friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u96	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u97	You will tell me, Madam Secretary of State: "But there is the public investment bank! Except that Bpifrance can only intervene if the company has no debt with the State and is not in a situation of judicial reorganization – let alone the fact that its resources are shrinking, in particular to support the cash flow of SMEs, or that the subsidy for its guarantee activities is no longer paid. In our country, therefore, we lack a bank, a real bank, that accompanies industrialists in their plans to revive their activities or transform their company. In the absence of such a bank, it is the State that plays the role of lender, in particular via the FDES. The State lends at usurious rates, Madam Secretary of State! It lends at rates ranging from 10% to 20% to companies that already have their heads under water!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u98	It's racket!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u99	This reminds me of the consumer credits offered to French people in situations of over-indebtedness! And these usury rates are due to EU rules that require lending at market rates plus 10%, even though banks have access to financing at negative rates... We're walking on the head! I can confirm that, Madam Secretary of State: that is the Euribor rate plus 10%. If you deny it, I would point out that it was the CIRI – the interdepartmental committee for industrial restructuring – that told us. Free to contradict CIRI, but this is confirmed and its answer appears in Sébastien Jumel's report. The reality is that the state lends them at least 10%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u100	The auditions are authentic! Read the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u101	[[Other movements]] As a result, it is turning funds or unscrupulous financiers who buy these firms in difficulty, these abandoned companies. And we know the damage they cause: they come, like predators, to buy our businesses and pay with high profit rates by selling them to the cut two years later. This is unacceptable! I know that in your government, we like financiers – for my part, I prefer them for dessert and almonds. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] That is why our country needs to develop more effective public tools, rapid intervention tools, alongside private investors if necessary, with zero-rate loans if necessary, and by participating in corporate capital when it is strategic, possibly with a public-private turnaround fund as proposed. That's where you have to put the bar!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u102	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u103	The "Economy" mission focuses on public policies dedicated to the development of business competitiveness, the improvement of the economic environment, consumer protection and the application of the economic and fiscal strategy supporting sustainable and balanced growth. For example, it brings together public funds to finance several tools for companies, as well as those for market regulators, competition and consumer protection authorities. I would like to highlight to you, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, five points. First point: the appropriations for the mission "Economy" requested for the year 2020 amount to EUR 1.87 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 2.33 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 5.4% and 19.8% respectively compared to the appropriations approved in 2019. Secondly, we can note that the Ministry of Economy and Finance is setting an example in terms of budgetary efforts to rationalize the workforce: the Mission's FTE employment ceiling will be 11246 for the State, down 2.5% over one year, and 2496 for operators, down 0.9% over one year. This is a significant effort that the Group of the Republic on the move wishes to welcome. Third point: the competitiveness poles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u104	You're bleeding them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u105	They have a major role to play in strengthening the performance of our innovation system. We're all attached to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u106	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u107	For example, I have the chance to welcome in my constituency, in Chartres, the Cosmetic Valley, an essential flagship for the entire French industry, a pride for the entire territory. The Prime Minister confirmed the transfer of state appropriations to the regions as early as 2020, a decision welcomed by most of them and that goes in the direction of history. Discussions are under way between the State, regions and competitiveness clusters on the modalities for the transfer of these credits and the governance of the scheme. I have no doubt that at the end of these discussions, the regions and the poles will obtain the guarantee of the financial and human resources to enable the implementation of a policy vital to our industrial jobs of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u108	In the meantime, we should maintain the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u109	Fourth point: I welcome, on behalf of the Republic on the move, the major and successful transformation of the DGE, Chief of Staff within the Ministry of Economy and Finance. It has focused strategically on priority economic issues, such as digital and innovation; it has eased its hierarchical structure; it has generalized the project mode and adopted an agile operation; It has strengthened its ties with the territories through the creation of the economic services of the State in the region. The transformation of the CEO is a model for changing the work culture within the administration. Fifth point: industrial policy. I have heard some colleagues point to an alleged lack of a clear and shared industrial strategy of the Government. The opposite is true: we have ministers who wet the shirt on every complex industrial issue. I was with Nicolas Forissier last night...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u110	[[Smile]] Me again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u111	... at the meeting of the study group on the evolution and conversion of the manufacturing industry, in the presence of yourself, Madam Secretary of State, which showed how the State was mobilized to deploy precision mechanics on all industrial restructurings. But industrial policy does not stop at the extinction of fires, and our majority supports the Government in the shock treatment put in place for a conquering industrial policy: the latest budgets have thus reduced the compulsory levies by 30 billion euros in 2020 compared to 2017, including 9 billion for companies; the territories of industry are the spearheads of the reindustrialization of the territories;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u112	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u113	... the PACTE law gives companies the means to innovate, transform, grow and create jobs; the productive pact will achieve full employment by 2025, with ambitious environmental and ecological objectives. Yes, we can remain an industrial and agricultural nation, not just a service economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u115	Yes, we can make the choice of a reciprocal free trade that allows the Made in France to radiate throughout the world. Yes, we can be a nation of innovation and not imitation, a nation attentive to its technological sovereignty and thus to its political sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The economic action of the Government enables this ambition to be achieved for France. And that's why our La République group is fully supporting it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u116	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u117	I would like to thank Mrs. and Mr. Special Rapporteurs, as well as Ms. and Messrs. the draftsmen for opinions, for their very detailed and demanding analysis of the appropriations for the missions presented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. I also thank the speakers of the groups for their statements. It is for me the assurance of a high-quality debate. I will respond to the points you raised on the basis of our broad objectives in the Finance Bill for 2020. First of all, I want to recall the economic situation and the context in which this mission is carried out: unemployment at the lowest level in more than ten years; a creation of industrial jobs – as you have noted, Mr Roussel –, certainly not as important as their destruction between 2000 and 2016, but which has continued since 2017; a growth forecast that is confirmed at a higher level than that of our comparable European partners and that highlights the resilience of the French model and the scope of the reforms we have made. The question is not to have more resources but to do better with those available. I have no doubt that those of you who regularly remind the Government of the importance of good control over public finances...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u118	Oh, how much it takes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u119	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... will be sensitive, and thank you, Special Rapporteur Peyrol, Mrs Magnier, for reminding her. In any case, it would be difficult to ask for huge increases in appropriations while at the same time wanting control of public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u120	Help yourself and Heaven will look at you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u121	Our first objective is to consolidate the reforms already undertaken to support the competitiveness and modernisation of the economy. As mentioned in the debate on the tax component in the first part of the PLF, the Government is fully mobilized to support the competitiveness of our businesses. In this respect, I would like to point out here that we are pursuing, among other things, a strategy to reduce taxation, not to give gifts, but to converge towards the average level of tax pressure in Europe in order to alleviate the competitiveness problems faced by businesses. I would also point out that the reduction in income tax benefits hundreds of thousands of TPE-SMEs, almost one in two artisans being subject to this tax. At the budgetary level, the consolidation of reforms is reflected in the priority actions of our ministry. We are making a growing effort to offset carbon, which allows us to offset the cost of carbon quotas for electro-intensive industrialists. The aim is to support companies whose activities are delocalised and which are faced with competition from companies established in countries which have not introduced carbon taxation of electricity production. The modernization of support for foreign trade, announced by the Prime Minister on 23 February 2018 in Roubaix, will also be continued. And I thank you, Mr Forissier, the rapporteurs for opinion Herth and Tan, and Mr Petit for having stressed the value of the reform of the public export service, led by Business France, which consists of bringing together all the public and private players concerned in Team France Export. The aim of this reform, which is directly led by the Directorate-General for the Treasury, is to provide companies with support more in line with their needs. The start-up of this project is extremely encouraging, as is the return of the positive contribution of foreign trade to the country's growth – all in an international context that is indeed tense, and of which it is not certain that it will improve in the coming months. I confirm our constant attention to the deployment of reform. The whole purpose of Business France's objective and performance contract lies in the correctness of the means to the objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u122	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u123	I can assure you, Mr Forissier, that the payroll will be funded and that the objectives will be met: the management of Business France has no discomfort on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u124	I don't doubt it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u125	I would also like to stress the effectiveness of the national arrangements established between the CCIs and Business France to support companies wishing to export: the result of the first international cooperation is perceptible. I am thinking in particular of Japan, where the French-Japanese Chamber of Commerce has successfully taken over the deployment of French companies. You are right to stress the specificity of the agri-food sector. I too am concerned about this issue, which concerns not only farmers but also industrialists. For this reason, we have made it a priority within the framework of the National Council of International Industry. We will give particular importance to companies in difficulty. First of all, I welcome the "weak signals" system that we have just created to detect the first difficulties of companies. We mentioned it yesterday in a working group: it is a federative project, developed in the form of a state start-up. Mr Jumel, you are concerned about some of the intervention measures for firms in difficulty. First of all, with regard to the interest rates applied under the FDES, I would point out that the interest is capitalized, which means that it will not be paid if a company is in difficulty and fails to comply with its trajectory, but it can be paid if a company recovers, as was the case with Arc International. It's the cost of risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u126	It's even more than the taste of risk, it's the love of risk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u127	[[Smile]] Stop it, Jonathan!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u128	I talked about the cost of risk, not the taste of risk! With regard to the action of CIRI and DIRE, the direction of innovation and business relations, the results achieved so far have enabled us to save nine sites out of ten, and 75% of jobs. I would also like to pay tribute here to the teams involved, who are providing absolutely remarkable work. There is also, as you know, a revolving fund, which was, when it was created during the 2008-2009 crisis, managed by the ISP, the strategic investment fund – I was there – and was then renewed in 2016. We will evaluate this fund in 2020 to identify avenues for improvement. Finally, Bpifrance invests 30% of its credits in industry, a proportion that is two to three times higher than the industrial footprint in our country's activity. There is therefore an over-representation of industrial investment in Bpifrance's portfolio.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u129	Only in favor of companies that are well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u130	I would also like to recall the elements of our industrial policy. We have 18 strategic sector contracts and 144 industry territories, for which we have committed €300 million. I believe, like you, Mr Roussel, that we can relocate industries to France: I do not think that this fight is lost.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u131	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u132	One of the levers of this relocation is investment in business digitisation. Digitally controlled machines, robots, cobots, etc., will allow us to regain market share and be more competitive than the low-cost countries we were fighting against before.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u133	It is therefore by abolishing the employees that we gain in competitiveness!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u134	That is why we have set up a very important programme to support SMEs in this area: EUR 80 million will be spent on digital diagnostics, and EUR 200 million on over-amortization. The very high-speed France plan is bearing fruit, and the State will honour all commitments made to the communities: the very high-speed 8 megabit per second will be deployed in 2020, while the very high-speed 30 megabit per second will be deployed in 2022. The funds are available. The fact that we are reopening them does not mean that we are going back to a decision, but rather that we are applying our plan in a perfectly controlled way. We wanted to use the leverage of AMELs – a call for local commitments – to improve the financing of our plan. Today we can recycle 140 million euros to support the very high speed and will be able to continue in this direction, thanks to the mismatch between commitment authorisations and payment appropriations. So I can assure you that this plan is funded, and that we will keep our very high-speed promises in 2022. With regard to 4G, I thank you for highlighting the ongoing deployment and its massive acceleration, which we will be able to reap from the end of 2020. Although there is, in fact, a gap between the installation of the towers and the moment when the French are actually equipping themselves, we are now in time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u135	Thanks to the departments and the intercommunalities!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u136	Finally, the Government's innovation policy is part of a revamped framework. Bpifrance is now the one-stop shop for the vast majority of innovation support schemes. In addition, the Innovation and Industry Fund is now fully operational, Ms. Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u137	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u138	Five programs have been launched around artificial intelligence, high-density energy storage and bioproduction – all of which should meet your expectations. To respond to the various challenges posed by economic changes while contributing to the necessary consolidation of our public finances, we are transforming our methods of action to increase the effectiveness of the policies implemented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The CEO has embarked on a first profound modernization – I thank Mr Kasbarian for highlighting it. Since the regions are now the leaders in economic development, the territorial presence of the CEO has been restructured. At the central level, the mission review that has been carried out now allows management to focus much more agility on priority projects. I thank Mr Roseren for having highlighted the efforts made by this Directorate towards the transformation of public action. The next phase of service modernization will be based on a strategic plan for the transformation of the FRCCB. This plan, which is currently being developed, will be applied in the period 2020-2025. With regard to the INSEE programme, Mr. Potterie, we would also like to give him visibility: this is the first head office for which a financial trajectory has been defined for the period 2019-2022 and accompanied by objectives and details of his missions. I also agree with Mrs Gregoire and Mr Roseren on the need to clarify the model of programme 134 "Business development and regulation". The reflections have begun within the units to lead to a new presentation that improves the visibility of the missions. I would like to take this as evidence of the first changes made to the programs during the 2019 Finance Bill. I have heard the rapporteurs' request that this clarification be significantly expanded: this will be a good project for 2020. The evolution of our methods of intervention does not only affect the departments of the Ministry of Economy and Finance: we have given ourselves the means to act coherently with our various partners. This is our third objective. With regard to the competitiveness poles, which you mentioned, Mr Kasbarian and Mr Roseren, phase IV covering the period 2019 is part of a logic of strengthening the performance of our innovation system. In terms of governance, in line with the Prime Minister's commitment to deconcentration and decentralization, we are examining with the regions how our operating appropriations can be transferred to them, so that they can direct them more directly. In addition, the State co-finances projects labeled by the competitiveness clusters. I confirm that we have caught up with the delays in the payment of the FIU – the single interministerial fund – which were indeed not justified and which needed to be resolved. With regard to the forthcoming PPSCs, we have made available €100 million, which will benefit the projects selected in the July calls for tenders. Responses to these calls for tenders are under review, and the winners will receive the credits in early 2020, without a funding break. Finally, I would like to highlight a last structural development of our methods of action in the territories. The Government has made the choice – and assumes – to completely renew its way of operating. This includes the implementation of the ANCT, which is expected to take effect from 1 January 2020. The future agency will apply, in particular, for small city centres, the programme small cities of tomorrow, which complements the city's core action plan and addresses rural issues. There is no concern, I believe, about the financing and guarantees of TPE loans – such as Flash TPE and Growth loans – granted by Bpifrance, that its management model leads quite naturally to the recycling of the dividends collected to finance its various shares. In any event, if it proved necessary to go back to certain operations, we would do so as of 2021. For the time being, Bpifrance's missions are largely funded. Finally, let me say a word about privatisation – forgive me for the length of this speech, but I would like to answer the questions raised by Mrs Magnier, Mr Roussel and Mrs Obono on this subject. With regard to French gaming, the AMF – the Autorité des marchés financiers – approved the registration document two weeks ago. The objective is to introduce 50 % of the capital on the stock exchange, with the public offering of the securities to take place between 7 and 20 November. The incentive mechanisms for individuals have been created.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u139	Please conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u140	Privatisation does not prevent the regulation of the gaming sector, as shown by the examples of the PMU and casinos, which are both private and regulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u141	Casinos are the subject of a public service delegation, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u142	Engie, on the other hand, is not the subject of privatisation: the State has a minority stake in it and has not yet taken any direction to change it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u143	No, you're just going to force the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to make an extra billion euro check!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u144	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I am surprised that we are complaining about the absence of a large public banking and insurance hub, while we are precisely creating this pole with La Poste. I therefore observe a contradiction in the comments made by Mrs Obono and Mr Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u145	You have noted, ladies and gentlemen, that I have given everyone – including the Secretary of State – and in a very broad way, an additional time to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u146	What a liberality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u147	I now propose that we stick to the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. two-minute statements. In particular, I ask the rapporteurs and the Secretary of State to be concise in their replies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u148	Mrs Christine Hennion, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u149	In accordance with Articles 121 and 89 of our Rules of Procedure, amendments contrary to the provisions of the Organization Act on Finance Laws are declared inadmissible. This is a rigorous practice, which is certainly based on legal elements, including the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. However, there has been a clear lack of information on the new arrangements for its application in the House, in particular between the Committee on Finance and the other committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u150	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u151	This lack of information reduced the discretion of the legislator and led to the financial inadmissibility of a number of amendments relating to the "Economy" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u152	Yes! We're used to it, you know!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u153	This practice is difficult to understand: last year, for example, I myself tabled an amendment designed to abound the very high-speed France plan which had at that time been deemed admissible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] My speech, Mr President, was addressed to President Woerth, whom I regret he is not here this morning. I expect a clear explanation from the Committee on Finance, in order to understand these asymmetries of information between the committees but also, I must point out, between the political groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u154	[[Smile]] As you said yourself, the rapporteur for an opinion, this point of order concerns the functioning of the Committee on Finance, not our work in the Chamber. I take note of that. It will be brought to the attention of President Woerth, who, everyone knows, presides excellently over his commission,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u155	Thank you for recognizing him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u156	...and the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u157	I call the credits of the "Economy" mission, listed in Statement B. On Amendment No 265, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u158	This is a call amendment, aimed at shifting EUR 129 million towards the development of the very high-speed Internet: I think we will all agree that, in this area, we need FTTH – that is, to drive fiber to the home – more than studies or statistics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u159	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u160	That is a concrete proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u161	I ask you the question: do you consider it normal that, in dense areas and agglomerations – those that are profitable – operators finance the deployment of digital networks from their own funds, leading to a zero-cost remainder for local authorities, whereas in rural and peripheral areas, communities must replace the failure of these same operators to deploy networks, forcing our communes and communities of communes – and therefore the local taxpayer – to put their hands in the pocket?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u162	They're always the same people who are laughing! That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u163	Thus, 20, 30 or 40 per cent of the cost of the operation, or hundreds of millions of euros, is sometimes the responsibility of our communities, in areas where topography and low density increase the cost of civil engineering – amounts that they could spend on road maintenance or the development of new services for the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u164	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u165	In these territories, therefore, we are suffering a double penalty and an additional territorial inequality: not only does fiber optics arrive later, but we also have to pay for it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Depending on whether you live in a village, a small town or a metropolis, there are double standards, with the impact I have just described on local finances, on the competitiveness of the territories and, finally, on the citizenship of everyone, so much the internet – I'm talking about the internet of quality, at very high speed – has revolutionized our way of living and working.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u167	I recall that this month the Government announced the reopening of the very high-speed France window. This reopening responds, as you pointed out, to a request from local and regional authorities, some of whom need state support in setting up their public initiative networks, the FIRs. This window will be equipped with a first €140 million envelope, consisting of the remaining €3.3 billion envelope originally provided for in France's very high-speed plan. Minister Julien Denormandie and my colleague draftsman Christine Hennion acknowledged that the amount of the envelope was insufficient. However, we take into account the fact that these projects are carried out over several years and therefore call for a direct mobilisation of appropriations, which are not immediately available. The Minister said that he would soon make an announcement that would provide visibility for future funding. We therefore recommend that these clarifications be awaited and that there be sustained control in the next spring of the evaluation. For these reasons, we are calling for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u168	I ask for the floor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u169	Madam draftsman, I am sorry, but it is the special rapporteur of the Committee on Finance who is responsible for giving the opinion of the committee. It is only if he chooses not to do so that I will give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee for opinion. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u170	The State is investing €3.3 billion in the deployment of France's very high-speed plan, an effort that is not in common with previous governments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u171	What about what was done under Sarkozy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u172	It is, moreover, visible, since we have doubled the speed of deployment of the very high-speed plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u173	It's not you, it's older!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u174	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] No, MP, that is not correct, since the number of catches installed in 2016, 2017 and 2018 was double the number of catches installed between 2012 and 2017. It's a fact: I'm just manipulating numbers, not ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u175	Thank you, Sarko!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u176	Please let the Secretary of State speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u177	I would also point out that the EUR 139 million allocated today for the deployment of very high speed will enable us to meet our commitments and that, as I have indicated, the combination of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations will make it possible to finance this plan completely. Julien Denormandie and I have undertaken precisely to take stock of the reopening of the windows and to clarify the modalities of deployment in the departments that are not yet fully covered. I would add that, where broadband is already installed, only 37% of the French have activated their contract. The challenge now is to make sure that the French realize that they have broadband and that they can take advantage of it in the best possible way. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a €150 million facility for drawing a line to the home of each Frenchman by financing up to €150 the broadband connection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u178	As the Rules of Procedure invite us to do so, I will give the floor to two other speakers, expressing two different opinions: Mr Bricout and Mrs Cariou.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u179	Mr President, I would like to reply to the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u180	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u181	Madam Secretary of State, it is clear that every time we come out of a public service logic to adopt mercantile logics, it is ruralism that trins,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u182	There's never been so much money put on the table!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u183	... for the simple reason that it does not offer sufficient customer potential and that operators do not find the expected return on investment there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u184	There are communities where it works very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u185	As my colleague said earlier, it is the communities, the communities of the communes or the communes that have to get their hands on it, in contrast to what happens with the logic of the metropolises. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] On these issues of déenclavement and cohesion of territories, we will support our colleague: it is up to the State to ensure the balance between cities and rural areas, which is penalized in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u187	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u188	Mr Bricout, Mr Brun, we are all here elected from rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u189	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u190	I am referring only to those who spoke on the subject, Mr Jumel. The problem will not be solved tomorrow because 129 million euros will be allocated to very high speed. In this respect, I will take the example of the Grand Est region, which has a perfectly completed financing plan, thanks in particular to the very high speed plan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u191	With departments that pay for it themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u192	... established under the previous quinquennium and which continues to produce its effects, notably through the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Brun, in 2012, we realized that the telephone operators had only equipped the center of the big cities, the big cities – but it seems to me that it is not the governments from your majority that have set up the France plan very high-speed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u193	Yes! It's Sarko!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u194	[[Same movements]] Of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u195	Let Mrs Cariou speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u196	This plan started after 2012. It's a little easy to blame today, when you didn't do anything at the time. We've got to get things back in order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u197	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u198	The very high-speed plan started in 2013 and is now being rolled out. However, it is not enough to allocate funds for the work to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u199	But if we don't affect them, nothing happens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u200	The real question, my colleague, is the implementation of the work. With regard to financing, the Secretary of State explained clearly what the funds allocated today to the very high-speed plan were. Let us therefore allow this plan to move forward. It is completely wrong to say that it is enough to allocate another EUR 129 million to speed things up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u201	This is a first step you don't want to take!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u202	The Secretary of State has made clear announcements regarding the deployment of this plan and, for years, Mr Bricout, the State has taken its full part, in particular through co-financing with the regions. Adopting this amendment would be really immobilizing appropriations for nothing, because it is not tomorrow that they would be used. Let us therefore allow the Government to lead the plan as it has been for years, and continue the deployment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I repeat, it is not because you will allocate these additional appropriations that the work will be done tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u203	Mr Brun, since you are the author of the amendment, and on an exceptional basis, I will leave you the floor for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u204	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Everyone understood that my amendment was an appeal amendment, and I believe that this issue deserves better than political politics. I do not dispute the fact that the State is assuming its responsibilities under the France broadband plan, particularly with the rise in payment appropriations, which will have to be monitored very closely. I am, moreover, never missing an opportunity to thank the Prime Minister, who has granted 147 million euros of state credits to validate and complete the financial model of the Drôme Digital Ardèche project. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] However, there is double standards between metropolitan areas and rural and peripheral areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u205	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u206	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the SOC group]] At a time when the Government wishes to reflect on how to help the most fragile territories, you should seize the opportunity to take concrete measures of this nature, which allow for two strikes: on the one hand, to reduce the digital divide; on the other hand, to give oxygen to our local communities, which, in rural areas, are the main players in investment for activity and employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u207	I put to the vote Amendment No 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u208	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 66 Number of votes cast 63 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 24 Against 39
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, by giving the floor to two speakers on each of the amendments relating to Bpifrance which we are now going to discuss, I will ensure that the eight groups can speak. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 799.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u210	It aims to restore the budgetary appropriations for the development of SMEs and TPEs covered by Bpifrance's operations in the area of guarantee and co-financing. As Ms. Valérie Rabault explained in detail in her introductory statement on the mission, in 2019 the Government had chosen to debudge this activity by asking Bpifrance to secure funding for this public service mission on its dividends. Bpifrance therefore had to mobilise EUR 150 million of exceptional dividends to this end, and it was forced, as a result of the State's disengagement, to restrict the financing services it proposed. Its cash support fund for TPEs and SMEs has been reduced and the own funds guarantee scheme has been abolished. As for the classic guarantee, it is now charged more expensively to banks, which pass this cost on to their customers, making this guarantee the most expensive in Europe. In 2020, Bpifrance estimates that it will have to recycle exceptional dividends for 150 million euros and 177 million euros for 2021. By nature, these dividends depend heavily on Bpifrance's performance, particularly in terms of asset disposal. However, the interest of a public bank is to have countercyclical action in times of slowdown or recession. Such a method of financing would deprive Bpifrance of this capacity if it itself suffered the consequences of the same economic context. It is therefore not viable to maintain this de-budgeting and it is urgent to restore the necessary budgetary appropriations. The amendment is therefore intended to restore EUR 100 million of budgetary appropriations to Bpifrance for the financing of its co-financing and guarantee measures for TPEs and SMEs. With a leverage effect of EUR 21 per euro invested – which is considerable – the measure proposed through this amendment would ultimately allow the lifting of EUR 2 billion in financing for the TPEs and SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u212	In order to avoid repetition, I will make a general point on the many amendments relating to Bpifrance, without necessarily taking up the floor on each of them. No doubt some of you remember that we had this discussion last year. Xavier Roseren and I have been paying attention to this issue for over a year now and have tabled two amendments aimed at reabunding the line dedicated to Bpifrance. The first, amounting to EUR 10 million, would give the operator visibility for the medium-term continuation of its activities. The second, very important and equivalent to that of last year, relates to an amount of 10000 euros and aims, beyond the symbolism, to maintain the link between Bpifrance and the national representation – because this is indeed the fundamental problem. I am only too familiar with the arguments referring to the very real risk posed by the abolition of the budget line on the financing of Bpifrance's guarantee activity – a risk which our interlocutors within this institution make quite clearly. It is not annoyed that, coming from all the benches of this assembly, from the far left to the group The Republicans, several amendments have been tabled with a view to re-establishing this budget line and giving it more or less. This has a meaning from the point of view of national representation. That is why we would like, again this year, to advocate strongly for the continuation of the Bpifrance line.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u214	Firstly, of course, to be reassured about the future of the operator, which we all want, but above all, and I insist very heavily on, to maintain its link with Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u216	I do not know that, as I have been told for several days, there is a steering committee – it happens that I am part of it, with Nicolas Forissier – but I inform you that we have been waiting for more than two years for its convening. This is another subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u217	It's not a subject, it's a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u218	[[Approvals on several benches of the LR group]] ... but the argument that Bpifrance should be monitored by other means does not hold: we are living witnesses. I know that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations has some kind of control over Bpifrance's activity, but that is not enough either. It would therefore be interesting for us to have a debate here with the Secretary of State on this point. We plead for the re-establishment of the budget line, giving it 10000 euros, because we know that today Bpifrance is on the road and that his dividends allow him to carry out his activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u219	Until when?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u220	Nevertheless, in order to ensure the transparency of public action, and on behalf of the parliamentarians who control it, I raise the question, Madam Secretary of State – while knowing that you will be able to reassure us when you give the Government's opinion on these amendments. [[Mr. Nicolas Forissier, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] In concrete terms, I shall express an unfavorable opinion on this, but I think that the discussion will continue for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u221	[[Smile]] However, I will not be able to give you the floor again, Madam Special Rapporteur, since, with what you had announced in the introduction, I have given you much more than the two minutes planned! What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u222	I understand the request contained in these amendments, some of which can be considered as appeal amendments. They reveal a concern for a device that we believe, like you, is extremely effective and useful. It is perfectly possible this year to finance guarantees without budgetary costs, by means of efficiency measures and the use of past margins and dividends.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u223	That's no reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u224	[[Special Rapporteur and Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol applaud]] However, I repeat, I understand your request. I would therefore be in favour of Amendment No 1082, which maintains a symbolic umbilical cord. On the other hand, I ask you to withdraw the others; Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u225	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 798.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u226	This is a fallback amendment, which tends to set the budget allocation for Bpifrance at EUR 50 million, with a leverage effect of EUR 1 billion. If you will allow me, Mr President, I shall at the same time introduce Amendment No 61, which is another withdrawal amendment, to set the budget allocation at EUR 20 million for a leverage effect of EUR 420 million. On this last amendment, we are going to ask for a public vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u227	On the identical amendments to come, Nos 803, 957- and 986, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. On identical amendments Nos 61 and 329, which we shall then consider, I have before me a request for a public vote by the Socialist and Related Group. The same applies to Amendment No 795. The three elections are announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 803.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u228	As a follow-up to what has just been said by my colleagues, this amendment aims to restore the line of appropriations financing the guarantee given by Bpifrance to loans to enterprises, a line of appropriations which has been removed from the finance bill. We saved her in extremis last year, and I regret that we have to do the same thing this year. This guarantee activity mainly benefits very small enterprises which face financing difficulties, particularly in the tourism sector; It contributes, for example, to the financing of independent hotel projects. As has been pointed out, the leverage effect of such a guarantee is considerable: 1 euro of public money makes it possible to raise 20 euros of financing for companies. Bpifrance has demonstrated, through this guarantee tool, its effectiveness as a public bank serving the most fragile sectors. The removal of the line of credit endangers the sustainability of this action and Bpifrance's proactivity in terms of guarantee, and hence the financing of companies. On the other hand, I agree with the Special Rapporteur: the principle of budgetary transparency is ignored by the recycling of State dividends.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u229	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u230	That's not acceptable. This method of financing is not sustainable: in the event of a reversal of markets, the bank's self-financing capacity will be reduced and we will have to backtrack. Nor is it legitimate: the bank cannot self-finance activities of general interest, let alone meeting the needs. We are organizing the whistle reduction, or even the end of Bpifrance's guarantee activity, as an activity of general interest to intervene where private banks do not go. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The aim of this amendment is therefore to restore the financing of Bpifrance's guarantee tool to the tune of EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u231	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 957.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u232	It is the same as the previous one: I will therefore not elaborate again on the arguments put forward by Mrs Bonnivard. I would simply say that this guarantee activity seems to me to be strategic at a time when we are considering a Brexit which is likely to cause a particularly strong economic shock, particularly for companies exporting to Britain. The Government would be well advised to maintain this budget line and provide it with the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u233	The next speaker is Mr Rémi Delatte, in support of Amendment No. 986.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u234	The previous speakers have presented things very well, but since pedagogy is the art of repetition, I would like to say in my turn how essential Bpifrance's guarantee activity is. It is because it supports investment, innovation, growth and, above all, because it is aimed at TPEs. This is very important because these companies are often weakened and need this guarantee. It should be noted that 60% of the amount is intended for very small enterprises. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I do not go back to the harmful effects, in terms of transparency and control of activity, of the debudging of Bpifrance's assets, nor to the threat it poses to the sustainability of the guarantee activity. I will simply say that what was possible in 2019 – going back to a government decision – must also be possible in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u235	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 803, 957- and 986.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u236	[[Smile]] Gaullist amendments, supported by the coconuts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u237	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 20 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u238	On Amendment No 1082, on which the Secretary of State has already announced that she would issue a favourable opinion, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to identical amendments Nos 61 and 329. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u239	As I said earlier, this is a fallback amendment, aimed at abunding the appropriations to the tune of EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u240	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 329.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u241	It is identical to the previous one. [[Protests on certain benches of the LaREM Group, as well as on the benches of the Government and the Commission]] I would like to reply to the minister about the usury interest rates that the state applies when it helps companies in difficulty. You told me it was the cost of the risk. The state lends at interest rates ranging from 10% to 20% to help companies with their heads under water, and you're telling us that's the cost of risk? It's still swollen! The State has secured some €20 million of interest on the backs of these companies in difficulty... Don't say it's not true, it's Bercy's numbers! Tell me that the European rules are wrong, that we must find a way to circumvent them, or to do otherwise, but don't put the cost of the risk in mind! And now that a budget line allowed Bpifrance to guarantee loans to SMEs, you want to remove this line on the pretext that these guarantees will be financed by Bpifrance's dividends? But that's not the cost of risk, it's the taste of risk! If, tomorrow, a crisis arises, Bpifrance does not register dividends, but SMEs need their loans to be guaranteed, how are we going to do it? What means will Bpifrance have to guarantee the loans of our SMEs and TPEs? [[Applause on the SOC benches]] That is the problem we are raising. No bank today plays that role, and Bpifrance's meagre share of it, you suppress it by basing this risk on dividends. You're so swollen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u243	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u244	I hear Mr Roussel's annoyance, but I would like to make no mistake about the debate. I said it quickly, but clearly things, and I won't repeat myself. The Secretary of State made a clear statement in favour of re-establishing the budget line. Let's not do all the trials around this amendment. I would add that, as special rapporteur, I too spent a lot of time with the representatives of Bpifrance, whom I have heard at length. I have not been asked to re-establish this budget line with appropriations of tens or hundreds of millions, as you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u245	We're asking for twenty million!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u246	I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u248	Unfavorable opinion, too. I will simply recall what happened in 2019, where the same situation prevailed and where the guarantee worked very well. I repeat that the guarantee is a mechanism that we support and accompany.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u249	By financing it with dividends!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u250	It is simply a matter of the proper management of public spending that we do not have to include in the budget of expenditures that we do not need. As for dividends, they are acquired dividends, not future dividends. It is on the basis of Bpifrance's real resources that we are making this decision, and we must believe that this is a good decision, since it worked last year. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Let's not confuse everything. Let us not raise problems that do not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will allow only two more statements. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u252	[["She's right! » on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Secretary of State, why do we live this year exactly the same as last year? I would like to know how budget mechanics work within Bercy, and what his choices are so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u253	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u254	[[Smile]] Perhaps it is a telepathy effect, but I wanted to ask the same question to the Secretary of State. Last year, we had exactly the same debate. Perhaps it would be useful to keep the budget line open if Bpifrance's dividends for 2020 were to be lower than expected – since we are predicted to have a reversal of the economic cycle? What matters is to be able to replenish the budget line – which means that it will not be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u255	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 61 and 329.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u256	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 68 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 22 Against 46
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u257	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 330 and 958. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 330.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u258	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] To open a line with 10,000 euros of credit is to make fun of the world! Yes, I repeat, it's making fun of the world! Minister Le Maire said a few weeks ago that there was a real risk of productive decommissioning. All the hearings of major company managers that we conducted in committee – I am thinking in particular of Renault's boss – have revealed that there is a risk of a reversal of business conditions which can hurt the industry and which can have an impact on SMEs and MIPs. And you deprive the strategist state of its ability to intervene! In fact, it's very ideological, it's not technical. The debate is not about the level of the cursor. Do we want a spectator state, which watches trains pass and deprives itself of its Regalian tools, or a state that is at the expense of industries? By responding as you do to our amendments, you give an ideological answer. You're for laissez-faire, laissez-passer. You are in favour of industries leaving our territories and moving one after the other. In these cases, you always shed crocodile tears. You go to the employees and you sympathize with hollow sentences: "It would be better if it were less worse". You deprive the State of its strategic tools. It's awful. This amendment is a fallback amendment aimed at maintaining EUR 10 million in appropriations for Bpifrance's intervention capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u259	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 958.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u260	I have nothing original to say, since this is a withdrawal amendment of EUR 10 million. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Secretary of State, is it reasonable to make a provision of EUR 10,000 to keep the budget line? Couldn't we imagine less, while we're at it? 10 euros, wouldn't that be enough to keep a line? Let's stay serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u261	Yeah, that's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u262	The floor is open to the Secretary of State – although she has already spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u263	Of course, Mr President, but I have been asked a question and I am used to answering the questions. If we have this discussion again, Mrs Bonnivard, it is because we are in exactly the same situation. The guarantee scheme is funded: the experience of 2019 shows it. Nevertheless, all the benches express their concern and desire to maintain a link between Bpifrance and the national representation – an umbilical cord.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u264	It is a matter of ensuring that Bpifrance retains its ability to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u265	You are right, Mr Herth, we could very well put 5 or 10 euros in the budget line concerned. In any case, being inspired by those who make control of public expenditure a permanent fight and budgetary sincerity an essential element, I do not think it is reasonable to include appropriations that are not used. [[Applause on certain benches of the LaREM group]] In summary, the same reasons, the same action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u266	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u267	It seems to me that it is a little saddened to maintain a line with 10000 euros. This shows the consideration you give to the projects! Many lines could include only a dozen euros and, depending on the results you get, it would be decided to pay you as well as your teams or not. It would be an interesting way of putting pressure on you. The real question is whether you can make sure that the dividends will be sufficient to guarantee the same level of aid? Are you ready to engage publicly, firmly and transparently? If that is the case, we may be able to review our judgment. You understand that maintaining a line with 10000 euros raises more concern and suspicion than insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u268	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u269	I repeat what I have already said – I regret it, but perhaps I am not clear enough: this scheme is financed by dividends that have already been paid. Therefore, there is no risk-taking for future dividends. A calculation is made from the dividends of the past. Therefore, yes, I assure you that we will support the guarantee and yes, you are right, the question may arise again next year – but we are discussing the Finance Bill for 2020. I would like to remind you of what happened last year: the same discussion had taken place, you had described the process as shameful and said that the guarantee would not be funded. But the facts show us that the guarantee is well funded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u270	By the dividends!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u271	If we believe in a form of trust between the executive and the National Assembly, we can think that what worked last year should still work this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u272	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor to support Amendment No. 1081.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u273	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u274	[[Smile]] They're all afraid of Roland Lescure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u275	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor to support Amendment No. 1082.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u276	No one is afraid of Roland Lescure, Mr. Jumel, on the contrary. This amendment, which I have already defended briefly, is intended to restore the budget line to an amount of EUR 10000 – an amount which you consider derisory, which is not my case: I have tabled the amendment, and I accept it. Mr Jumel, you know better than I do, you who have experience, if a reversal of the situation should occur – Mr Di Filippo asks us, the Secretary of State and myself, to ensure that this will not happen, but, I am sorry, we are not Mrs Irma – I have understood for the past two and a half years that I have been sitting on the Finance Committee that there is a draft law on amending finance. In the event of a reversal – what we are considering, because we are lucid people – what matters is to have the budget line that can be abounded to deal with it. The amendment is therefore intended to restore the budget line to an amount of EUR 10000. I do not take up the arguments of the Secretary of State, to which I fully agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u277	The Secretary of State had previously indicated the Government's favourable opinion. I put to the vote Amendment No. 1082.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u278	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 62 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u279	That's what's called being consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u280	Everyone will have noted it, Mr. Jumel. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 875 and 615. Mr Xavier Roseren, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 875.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u281	I give the floor to Marie-Ange Magne to present the amendment since it was adopted by the committee on its proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u282	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor to support Amendment No. 615.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u283	This amendment aims to improve the consistency of the budget model. In order to increase the readability of the public effort in the field of press aid, the aim is to isolate the appropriations corresponding to the aid for the postal transport of the press in the mission "Economy", the aim being ultimately to repatriate them in the programme 180 of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" of which I am Special Rapporteur, in accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the experiment carried out in 2013. As the State increases the funds of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" to accompany and support the press sector, which is experiencing difficulties, at the same time it decreases the support for the transport of the press included in the mission "Economy". Consistency is therefore needed to improve the readability of public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u284	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u285	I would like to speak, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u286	Mr Roseren, you are the author of one of the amendments, so I assume that your opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u287	I can defend...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u288	The amendment was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u289	I must give the opinion of the committee, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u290	All right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u291	Since 2017, we have stressed the importance of improving the coherence and readability of programme 134, "Business development and regulation", and we reiterate our request for the transfer of funds allocated to postal transport from the press to the mission "Media, books and cultural industries". In the absence of a transfer, this amendment aims to isolate appropriations in a new action under Programme 134, in order to achieve the same objective: better monitoring of appropriations and more effective evaluation. The committee adopted this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u293	In accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the appropriations allocated to postal transport, which correspond to the compensation by the State of the additional costs of the public postal transport service mission of La Poste, were combined in a single budget programme, programme 134 of the mission "Economy". It is consistent that these appropriations for the La Poste Group should be retained under programme 134, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, who is responsible for the posts. This also helps to preserve the stability of the model. I understand your concern, but the budgetary connection of the aid for the postal transport of the press could be considered in a second phase, as part of a more comprehensive reflection on the model of the mission "Economy". Indeed, as I said in my opening remarks, your requests for improved legibility of the model are legitimate. In addition, the findings of the mission, which is to be launched jointly with the Ministry of Culture in the near future, can be usefully fed into the discussion, with the aim of evaluating the media distribution support mechanisms. We are caught in a dilemma: should these credits be linked to the person who receives them, La Poste, or to the person who ultimately benefits from them, the press? I recommend that the amendment be withdrawn to the benefit of working towards a revision next year of the budget model so as to ensure the readability of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u294	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u295	I will agree with the Secretary of State. The current mechanism of support for the public distribution service mission is based on La Poste, which explains the connection of the corresponding appropriations to the mission "Economy", which is concerned with the positions in a global way. The question, however, is legitimate. The press is facing very serious economic difficulties, especially since the transfer of its advertising resources to the digital sector. However, it is important to await the conclusions of the mission that is about to be launched. The reflection must be global. It is not time today to change the budget model. The Group of the European People's Party will not support these amendments if they are not withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u296	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u297	To the extent that a mission is announced and a reflection initiated on the recasting of the budget model, with which Parliament will, I hope, be associated, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u298	Mr. Special Rapporteur, you're also withdrawing yours?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u299	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u300	On Amendment No 998, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two amendments, Nos 794 and 795, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u301	These amendments are intended to clarify the powers in the field of food control. There is now a lack of confidence on the part of consumers and a growing expectation on the part of citizens about the safety and quality of their diet. There is also a strong expectation among actors in the food sector, whose image has too often been tarnished by health or media crises. Two departments are now responsible for controls: the Directorate-General for Food, DGAL, which reports to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and which ensures the health security of the entire food chain, with the exception of plant products; the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention, DGCCRF, which reports to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and whose tasks relate to the fight against fraudulent or misleading practices, as well as health security for specific products. This fragmentation and entanglement of skills does not seem to us to promote efficiency. Already in 2000, a commission of inquiry on the transparency and health security of the food chain in France recommended a unit of command. Amendment No 794 seeks to open a €70 million line of appropriations to create a unified food policy with DGCCRF. Let's not wait for a new crisis to react! Amendment No 795 aims to increase the resources of DGCCRF by EUR 6 million to enable it to cope with the extension of its tasks, due to the increase in frauds concerning the safety, quality or conformity of products, particularly foodstuffs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u303	These amendments show the difficulty of allocating the tasks between DGCCRF, which reports to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and DGAL, which reports to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. We agree with you, and we have mentioned this in our report. However, we do not think it appropriate to merge all the services and place them with the DGCCRF, because each of them has developed its own skills and working methods, which we believe are complementary. We have been heard, since an inter-inspection mission will soon have to submit a report to clarify the competences of each, in order to make the controls more effective. We must wait for the conclusions of this mission before taking a decision on the matter. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u304	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u305	The opinion is also unfavourable, for the reasons mentioned by the Special Rapporteur. The inter-inspection mission will give its report at the end of November, which will have to answer your legitimate question: how can controls be organised in a more legible and efficient way?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u306	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u307	I would like to support these amendments. There is a reference to an inter-inspection mission, but the commission of inquiry to draw lessons from the Lactalis case and to study the shortcomings of the control and information systems, from production to distribution, and the effectiveness of the public decisions, known as the Lactalis commission of inquiry, has already formulated recommendations, which have been adopted unanimously. Is Parliament sovereign, yes or no? In this Republic, does it make sense for Parliament to give its opinion? All reports conclude that there is a need to increase controls on incoming products due to malfeasance or non-compliance with health and environmental rules. More resources are needed! [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, you are multiplying free trade agreements, such as CETA – the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement or, in French, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, which will kill agriculture – or, tomorrow, the one with Mercosur, because it will be the same music. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Scalded cat fears cold water, as they say in my home: you are liberals and you love free trade treaties! In short, all this requires a unified police force and additional means to carry out the checks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u308	The Stasi, what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u309	That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u310	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u311	You have mentioned, Madam Secretary of State, the trust in linking Parliament and the Government. I'll take your word. If you believe that this relationship of trust exists, you must take into account the unanimously adopted recommendations of the Lactalis Committee of Inquiry, which was chaired by a member of our group, Mr Christian Hutin. This unanimity means that the majority who support you have endorsed these recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u312	Yes, but they forgot it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u313	If there are malfunctions today, it is simply because the DGCCRF cannot carry out all the necessary checks. Our amendment does not have a very high cost – EUR 6 million – and you could very well give a favourable opinion. In any case, you do not say that you want to have a relationship of trust between Parliament and the Government and, at the same time, to sit down on the recommendations adopted unanimously by a parliamentary committee of inquiry – especially since it has, I would remind you, aroused a great deal of emotion in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u314	I accept one last speaker before giving the floor to the Secretary of State to conclude, and then we shall proceed to the vote. Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u315	I participated in the Lactalis Committee of Inquiry, and I am Special Rapporteur on Food Security in the context of the review of the Finance Bill for 2020. And if the commission of inquiry has concluded that a leader should be appointed for the management of food crises, I know, for asking him the question, that the Government has initiated a reflection on the subject and that this responsibility could be entrusted to DGAL. I therefore think that this will all succeed. I had already made such a request last year, as part of my report, and I trust the Government on this point. I repeat: a reflection is under way at the inter-ministerial level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u316	Nothing has been done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u317	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u318	It is precisely because we have taken note of the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry that the inter-inspection mission has been launched, which is aimed very precisely at answering questions relating to food controls. Its findings will be made at the end of November.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u319	Why should an inter-inspection mission evaluate the findings of the commission of inquiry?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u320	I think we're confusing a few things. There is first of all the effectiveness of the control device, which, as you pointed out, is complex. Some controls are carried out by DGAL, such as those relating to the meat sector, others are carried out by DGCCRF, such as those concerning fruit and vegetables or organic products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u321	So we have to merge them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u322	In any event, clarification of the controls is necessary. This is precisely the purpose of the inter-inspection mission, which began its work not with general ideas, but with specific proposals, which must be arbitrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u323	The commission of inquiry has already done this work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u324	Colleagues, please let the Secretary of State speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u325	To everyone her work, Mrs Rabault: the executive carries out her own, under the control of Parliament – it seems to me that this is what our institutions are planning. With regard to Amendment No 795, which seeks to strengthen controls, I would point out that the French authorities are not the only active authorities, since goods are controlled at European borders by other control authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u326	[[Smile]] Yes, by the English!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u327	We also urge the European Commission to set up an operational force dedicated to strengthening the number of checks and their nature, because when goods are controlled by EU authorities, DGCCRF is not intended to examine them again, except in cases of suspected fraud. I would point out that the DGCCRF's record for this year is positive, as the number of controls has increased and a number of frauds have been highlighted – which is a priority. Finally, and this is the whole issue of the future reform, the work of the DGCCRF needs to be directed towards missions with greater added value. It is obviously essential to ensure the quality of food products, not only for health and environmental reasons, but also with a view to combating fraud, such as the one we discovered on French-labelled Italian kiwis or the one affecting food banks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u328	Or the horse-meat lasagna.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u329	It goes back several years, Mr. Jumel. Other control tasks assigned to the DGCCRF, however, do not have significant added value and could be delegated. It is in this direction that we are moving forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u330	I put to the vote Amendment No. 795.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u331	Amendment Lactalis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u332	€6 million for food security!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for allowing Members to vote freely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u334	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 17 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u335	Mr Jumel, is Amendment No 332 being defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u336	No, Mr. President, because he has nothing to do with the precedents. It aims to preserve the poles of competitiveness as a useful force for the territories. I invite you to be cautious in this matter, Madam Secretary of State, because I saw the room gradually empty – and in a surreal way – during the speech given by Jacqueline Gourault at the congress of the departments of France. A true disavowal. As for relations with mayors, they are even worse: they have never had confidence in this government, as they have felt despised since the first day of the legislature. [[Smile]] However, you are telling the regions that, as they are the leaders in economic matters, the state is disengaged from supporting the economy: its withdrawal from the financing of the competitiveness poles is an example of this. So I warn you: five months before the municipal elections, having a territorial anchor could be useful. See how nice I am: I give you advice! By cutting you off territory, you'll end up cutting yourself off from the world. This is the warning that I wanted to ring through the defence of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u338	As you know, the financing of competitiveness clusters has been the subject of important work with stakeholders in defining phase IV of the competitiveness clusters. Within this framework, a performance logic has been introduced and funding for results has been decided. For 2020, the call for projects states that the funding will be on a fixed floor of €6 million, combined with a variable share of €9 million, which will be paid according to performance. A total of EUR 15 million is therefore planned for financing. In our report last year, we welcomed this reform, because it is perfectly legitimate for the State to hold the structures it finances to account. Rather, I said, our concerns concern the regionalisation of pole governance, as well as the PSPC-region envelope. On the other hand, the poles were informed of the new funding path. The committee rejected your amendment, Mr Jumel. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u339	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u340	He too is unfavorable. [[Applause on certain benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] I believe that two things are confused: firstly, the financing trajectory of the competitiveness poles, which is a multi-year trajectory, which is known and which has been defined in the context of phase IV; Secondly, decentralisation at regional level, which was discussed, started last January, and responds to a request from the regions. It would be better not to speak for them. For my part, I am not a politician.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u341	Let's see! You'd know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u342	That the Assembly of the French Departments should not bother to listen to the minister – because the room did not empty in her speech, it was already empty when the minister spoke –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u343	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u344	... is not a very pleasant or polite way to engage in dialogue between local authorities and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u345	We can send you the compliment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u346	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In any case, be assured that we meet with the regions every three months and that it is they who have asked to put this question on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u347	Dialogue must work in both directions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u348	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u349	I support this amendment, because the competitiveness poles appear to us to be essential elements for the development and animation of the territories, as well as for industrial policy and the optimisation of public funding. This is an opportunity for me to stress the importance of good coordination between the policy of the State and that of the various territorial executive bodies. Of course, I am thinking in particular of Corsica, and I would like once again to stress the need to coordinate the implementation of the exceptional investment programme between the state services and the Corsican community.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u350	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u351	If every time we criticise the Government, we do political politics, you have a strange conception of democracy, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u352	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u353	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] One thing I will remember from your remarks this morning is that you are manipulating the numbers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u354	We're at the limit of a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u355	You said earlier: "I manipulate the numbers" – we can check in the transcript. I don't dispute that you're doing it right. However, it is not enough to define a trajectory to be heard. You've defined one to shoot the chambers of commerce and industry: it works! You have defined one to shoot the chambers of trades and crafts: it works too! And now you define one to empty the poles of competitiveness from their substance: I prognosis that it will work. At the end of the day, however, the activity leaves the place and has a negative impact on the real economy and daily life in our territories, whose vitality you weaken. If I say that, it's political politics, I assume it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u356	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u357	Speaking of which, Mr Jumel, I wanted to say that I was based on rationality and figures, and that I was committed to the sincerity of our budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u358	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u359	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Maybe I didn't speak well, but I think you fully understood the meaning of my speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u360	The floor is for Mr Rémi Delatte, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 982.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u361	It is on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs that I am defending this very important amendment. In fact, the Commissioners did not make a mistake, as they unanimously adopted it. Indeed, the budget allocation supporting the bodies responsible for training in the arts, namely the Higher Institute of Trades, the ISM, and the National Institute of Crafts, INMA, is simply deleted in the draft finance law for 2020. The same applies to the allocation for the label "Living Heritage Enterprises". I propose that this budget line be reinstated to the tune of EUR 2.25 million, which is an important but reasonable effort. Recognized by the law of 18 June 2014, the trades of art participate in the economic, cultural, heritage and tourist influence of France, which our colleague Philippe Huppé noted in his excellent report. This is an attractive sector for young people; attest to the enthusiasm and emotion that followed the fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. This sector represents 600,000 companies, 120,000 jobs and 15 billion euros. Madam Secretary of State, today you are sending a very negative message to this area of excellence; the shot should be corrected. Moreover, this sector is weakened by the non-renewal of the tax credit for crafts. However, it is strategic for the employment, know-how and influence of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u363	All the amendments are important, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It does not take account of recent developments: INMA and ISM are in the process of being brought together to form a single body responsible for the implementation of public policies in the field of crafts, which will, I assure you, be really winning. The other tasks initially assigned to these two bodies will be transferred, for some, to the Union des entreprises de proximité, the U2P, and, for others, to CMA France, which federates the chambers of trade and crafts; the actors themselves approved it at the last meetings of their respective Boards of Directors, of which I am a member. For example, the training and technical support mission, as well as the dashboard and craft studies mission, will be forwarded to the U2P. For its part, CMA France will resume the monitoring and information mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u364	What about the credits?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u365	To the extent that you do not necessarily have this information, I understand your concerns and your amendment. In any case, the evidence I have just provided shows that it is not necessary to grant the funds you are proposing. The committee rejected this amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u366	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u367	I would add that the creation of the Agence française des métiers d'art benefits from double funding: on the one hand, a grant of 2 million euros from the Ministry of Economy and Finance under credits of 2019; On the other hand, financial support from the Ministry of Culture from programme 131, "Creation", for 2020. These appropriations will be fully disbursed in 2020, based on the achievement of the structure's objectives. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory, Mr President-in-Office. I suggest you take it off. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable. Another concern expressed by professionals was that the trades tax credit should be renewed. We've been listening to them. The item will be discussed later in the discussion of the second part of the finance bill. I can already tell you that we are in favour of this being maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u368	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u369	Mr Special Rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, I have listened carefully to your arguments. However, in order to be often in contact with artisans, I must tell you that your remarks do not correspond exactly to reality. In 2014, thanks to the text that I had the honour to present here, we took a first step by officially recognizing the crafts in the law. As the draftsman pointed out, the sector is very fragile and needs dedicated support. I take note of your position in favour of extending the tax credit for crafts, which may need to be corrected to make it truly accessible to all professionals. However, this does not mean that there is no need for dedicated funding, given the points raised by the draftsman. As always, you tell us that everything is fine, and we postpone the decision pending developments such as mergers of bodies, which are supposed to make the sector more efficient. In my opinion, crafts really need to be accompanied. The amendment is very reasonable for public finances, as it would cost just over EUR 2 million. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will support it. [[Applause on some of the SOC, LT and GDR benches. – Mr Rémi Delatte, draftsman of the opinion, also applauds]] I invite the Government and the Assembly to recognize the importance of artisans for employment, know-how and attractiveness. They are doing a remarkable job in all our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u370	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u371	I agree with what has just been said. We support the craft trades.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u372	Prove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u373	You're supporting them orally!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u374	It is niche trades and know-how that make France radiate, and it is indeed appropriate to protect them. However, we are not in favour of this amendment. On the other hand, as the Secretary of State mentioned, when we look at the non-attached articles, we will introduce an amendment to extend the tax credit for crafts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u375	[[Smile]] Being first a local elected official, I am well aware of the sensitivity that may exist on this issue. Several of you have asked me to speak. I will give everyone, in particular Mr Di Filippo. the opportunity to speak briefly, then I will leave it to you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State – especially since you are likely to greet the Béarn crafts as a priority. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u376	Being half-Bearnais, I salute the Béarn craft! I also remember that I was mayor of Dieppe, the fifth city labeled "City of Art and History". We were able to measure how unaccompanied the crafts, symbols of our know-how, connected to the real economy, were. Crafts promote tourism; they are attractive to the territories. It is therefore essential to have a dedicated budget line to support and consolidate the sector. The tax credit alone does not meet this need to accompany and irrigate the territories where the crafts are located. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left strongly supports the reasonable amendment proposed by the draftsman. I hope that these arguments will win the conviction of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u377	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u378	Two tiny sentences to complete Mrs Pinel's remarks. First, over the past two years, there has been a tendency to merge missions without necessarily merging appropriations, some of which are lost on the way. Thus it has been in the field of sport and for the economy in the territories. This is again the case here for the craft trades. Secondly, if we do not take care to preserve these very important labels and crafts, we will find them in Eastern Europe or China, and we will soon resort to imports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u379	Not to mention the forgery!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u380	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u381	The Socialist and Related Group will support this balanced and inexpensive amendment for public finances. Mrs Pinel raised the issue very well. Our group supports the trades of art, which also make the identity of the territories of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u382	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u383	Favourable opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u384	No, because it's funded, especially by Program 131! I'm confused to have to repeat myself. First of all, I repeat my attachment to the craft trades.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u385	Saying is good; It's better to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u386	Only three weeks ago, I launched a national strategy for crafts and local businesses. Last week, I participated in the celebration of the seventh and eighth geographical indications, "Aubusson Tapestry" and "Aubusson Carpet". We are very active on these issues. Secondly, it is financed, on the one hand, by a recycling of 2019 appropriations made available by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, on the other hand, by the programme 131 of the mission "Culture". You will have every opportunity to adopt these 2 million credits when the time comes. I insist that the amendment is technically satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u387	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u388	For the rest, we may want to put a piece back in the jukebox to have the pleasure of saying that crafts are important. I fully share your point of view, Mr Di Filippo, which is rather rare.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u389	[[Smile]] You're on the right track, Madam Secretary of State! You're progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u390	Anyway, it's funded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u391	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 1021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u392	It is an amendment calling for help, which concerns a subject which is certainly very local, but which involves national solidarity following the dramatic fire of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. It should be recalled that the State owns and is responsible for the construction of its reconstruction. We were moved here, on all benches, by the fire that struck Notre-Dame last April. This exceptional event has had a very important impact on the shops of the island of La Cité, with a drop in turnover of up to 90% for some of them, especially in the rue du Cloître-Notre-Dame. Two meetings were held with the Minister of Economy and Finance, Mr Le Maire, to assist these firms in difficulty. However, the situation has unfortunately not improved since then. The construction site, as we know, will last several years and is regularly subject, week after week, to unforeseen conditions that force the perimeter around the cathedral to be closed. To date, no activity has been planned to restore attractiveness to this area and to allow traders to live from their activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u393	It's a city amendment from Paris...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u394	I therefore alert you to the catastrophic situation of entire families of traders working in the streets near Notre-Dame; They lost everything. The amendment tends to provide for long-term compensation for those who are currently experiencing a very sharp decline in their turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u395	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u396	As a personal member of Parliament, I obviously share your concerns, Mr Rupin. We all remember the tragedy of Notre-Dame de Paris. Accompaniment to local traders is one of the priorities of the majority. In substance, although I am very attached to these issues, I do not think it appropriate to set a precedent. In all regions of France, traders can be affected by events completely independent of the state and consequently undergo a sharp change in their activity. I do not think that it is necessarily up to the public authorities to compensate or correct everything, in this case through the budget. That said, in exceptional circumstances, an exceptional response. I leave it to the Secretary of State to answer and give her opinion. For its part, the committee relies on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u397	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u398	I share your analysis, Mr Rupin: today we must intervene with these traders. To this end, we have built an exceptional aid of 350,000 euros. She's been slow to come, but she's now available. Thirty-seven traders will be compensated in the coming days; Twenty-nine of them will receive €10000 in aid. This is the first, essential phase, which aims to give them room for manoeuvre and allow them to bounce back. Secondly, all the traders concerned can benefit from the arrangements we have put in place after the events of the yellow vests, i.e. a staggering of the tax and social deadlines, and a precise support which can go, if necessary, up to the exemption. It is a matter of allowing businesses to maintain their business, which is fundamental. In addition, we have released an envelope of 600,000 euros for the city of Paris in order to accompany and revive the local trade. As I understand it, this issue has recently been voted on in the context of the city's budget. It would not be absurd if the traders we are talking about could benefit from these funds, given their importance and their situation in Paris. That being said, you raise a deeper question, Mr. Rupin: how to deal with the situation in the long term, the time of work? This is not one of the emergency situations that we have to deal with elsewhere, for example in Aude, when we need to relaunch trade after a few days or weeks of blockage. In this case, the work will last several years. In this regard, the public institution responsible for the conservation and restoration of the cathedral will have to "take into account the situation of traders and residents". As soon as this establishment is in place, we will have to find, in close connection with the merchants, the city of Paris – indispensable in this matter – and the ministries of interior and culture, a path and an appropriate accompaniment for these merchants, depending on the work that we will be able to carry out. We will be by your side to do this. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u399	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u400	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for this information. Some had already been mentioned in the discussions that we may have had; others are new. I thank the State for its commitment. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u401	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 990.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u402	The aim of this amendment is to create a new programme entitled "Consumer protection" – and consumer protection – which would incorporate action 24 of programme 134, "Business development and regulation". To this end, we propose to transfer €1.2 million since Action 23 of Programme 134, which is currently dedicated to support for electro-intensive companies affected by carbon prices. In our view, the amount of expenditure spent on these enterprises is nonsense, given the current climate issue and the need for an ecological transition. It highlights, once again, the unsurpassed contradiction between free trade, which involves competitiveness and increased trade, and the ecological transition, which implies solidarity and a decline in this type of trade. Action 24 of Programme 134 includes intervention expenditure for the National Consumer Institute, the INC, 15 consumer associations, the European Consumer Centre France and the Research Centre for the Study and Observation of Living Conditions. These intervention appropriations, managed by the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs, Competition and Fraud Prevention, amounted to €7.6 million in the original finance law for 2019, but only €6.4 million in the draft finance law for 2020. This represents a reduction of these intervention appropriations by 16 % in real terms, in line with the overall objective of controlling public expenditure. This decline follows many previous declines and is comparable to last year's cut. This reduction seems to us to be detrimental, and we propose to remedy it through this transfer of appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u403	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u404	Mrs Obono, you are addressing an important issue, that of informing consumers and protecting their rights. This policy goes, as you know, in particular through the subsidy paid to the INC and to 15 other associations, in a constrained budgetary context. I think, Madam Secretary of State will confirm this, that the State has wished to commit to a consolidation of the consumerist community. The allocation to associations has been declining for some years, because the national landscape is still very fragmented; They are asked to come together in order to concentrate their efforts to be more effective in their mission of informing consumers. I would point out that the decrease in staffing is not uniform: it takes into account the territorial mesh to favour associations that are closest to consumers. With regard to the INC, I believe that there is a need for strategic reflection on the scope of its missions, and to adapt its resources accordingly. We hope that the Government will undertake this work. With this in mind, the committee rejected the amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u405	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u406	He too is unfavorable. As the Special Rapporteur explained, work was undertaken two years ago to consolidate the consumerist movement, aimed at strengthening the action of the associations with the most impact locally, in particular through privileged support for those who have developed a territorial network. The CNI is a public institution dependent on the Ministry. Some of its missions overlap with those of the DGCCRF; It would therefore be a contradiction to separate the CRFB from the support it receives from the NCI, by creating a specific program. In addition, work is under way with the new Director General of CNI to redefine the missions most useful to the consumer movement. On the other hand, I am astonished at the method of financing chosen. I understood that industry was an important subject, and that electro-intensive companies, such as the iron and steel industry, whose industrial footprint is strong in the Hauts-de-Frances, were important companies – it probably does not leave you indifferent, Mr Roussel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u407	It's just a pledge, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u408	You yourself stress the need not to let China, for example, compete with us in this area, when it is in a situation of overcapacity, which creates great difficulties for our steel industry. Would the aim be to weaken our industry, which still produces with better social and environmental conditions than China, by opening up the market to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u409	Madam Secretary of State, you know very well that this is not the objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u410	You'll certainly explain to me what's going on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u411	I will give the floor to only two speakers: Mrs Obono and Mrs Rabault. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u412	I would like to thank the Special Rapporteur for confirming that the choice has been made for a reduction in appropriations, which is the result of the policy of budgetary restraint. Despite the language that you use, it does not seem to me that the consolidation referred to, which translates into a desire to reduce the number of consumer associations, responds to the growing demand for protection from our fellow citizens, or that it goes in the direction of the general interest. We need a tight mesh to be in a situation of control and vigilance, including citizen, that is, not only dependent on the organs of the State. Madam Secretary of State, if you do not understand our logic, it may be because you did not take the time to read our counter-budget for 2020, nor the two previous ones. Indeed, we have a comprehensive strategy for financing the industry and relocating. I will follow all of our proposals, which will teach you a few things about strategic investment, in order to meet the needs of the ecological transition. Being forced by the fiscal year, we had to enter into your austerity logic and not create additional burdens; So we had to operate a writing game. This explains the proposed transfer. I assure you, however, that our proposals are consistent, and our will is to defend the French industry by responding to the challenges of the ecological transition, which you do not, on the contrary, because your policy leads the industry right into the wall. The amendment that I am defending and the point 1000 that we will be discussing at a later stage make all their sense in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u413	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u414	I do not want to vote on the substance of the amendment. Madam Secretary of State, you stated earlier that you do not have a political policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u415	But that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u416	Yet what you have just said about the pledge is purely political. You are well aware of the rules of the National Assembly: deputies have very little power and in order to make money when they table an amendment, they are obliged to guarantee the charges created by the latter on a programme belonging to the same mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u417	We shouldn't need to explain that to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u418	Therefore, if you want to avoid this type of pledge, you need to propose to your government colleagues to change the Organic Law on Finance Laws – but you cannot attack, as you did, the author of an amendment on the proposed pledge. Everyone here supports industry; We have proved this to you earlier in our defence of the credits. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT and GDR groups]] I regret that you have similar comments, which show, for the time being, that you are making politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u419	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u420	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 998.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u421	The aim of this amendment is to increase the budget of the National Consumer Institute by EUR 1 million, the future of which is seriously affected by the continuing decline in public subsidies. Everyone here knows that the CNI constantly adapts, through new initiatives, to the demand of consumers and user associations – this is an excellent thing. At the same time, it undertook management efforts following the report published by the Court of Auditors in 2016. However, the financial balance of the CNI cannot be sustainable without an appropriate public subsidy. However, it has been declining steadily since 2012. In 2019, the CNI again demonstrated its usefulness, for example by uncovering the persistence of substances that are toxic to health and the environment in home care products. It is necessary to sustain this investigative work by providing financial support to this institution. The purpose of this amendment is to restore the subsidy from DGCCRF to the INC at its 2017 level; We do not ask for very large appropriations, the level of 2017 would allow the Institute to balance its result for the years to come, and to continue its missions in good conditions. Before you give us your intention to reduce the appropriations for the 305 program, Madam Secretary of State, I would remind you, as Mrs Rabault has just done, that parliamentarians have an obligation to secure the additional expenses proposed. It is in no way our intention to reduce this programme. We therefore ask you, if you give this amendment a favourable opinion, to raise the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u422	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u423	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u424	My colleague Olivia Gregoire and I are vigilant in defending consumer associations and protecting consumers. We have therefore been attentive to the situation of the CNI. As part of my report, I met at length with the new Directorate General, as well as staff representatives, who shared their concerns – which are real. For the past two years, we have been calling for a review of the public service missions entrusted to the INC. It must take into account the emergence of new consumer information solutions through our mobile phones and their applications. Furthermore, with regard to the DGCCRF, since several missions are now carried out by different structures, it would be useful to clarify the matter. That is why this work will need to clarify the needs of the CNI. On the other hand, the financial balance of the INC will be ensured in 2020 thanks to the reserves. We therefore express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, but we take this opportunity to reiterate to the Secretary of State our request that strategic reflection be carried out on the tasks and means of the CNI.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u425	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u426	Unfavorable opinion. I would first like to reply to Mrs Rabault. If I commented on the pledge, it was because it was presented as a response to a measure contrary to the ecological transition. It seemed important to me to clarify this point, because I believe that carbon compensation is on the contrary a necessary measure for our French industries. I had not allowed myself to comment on a single pledge since the beginning of the session, precisely for the reasons you mentioned. I note, moreover, that you made it clear in the summary statement of Amendment No 998 that it was drafted in accordance with Article 40 of the Constitution, but that you requested the lifting of the pledge. To return to this amendment, we are working, in particular with its new Director General, on a review of the INC's missions; We have found that some are redundant with the actions of the DGCCRF. The magazine, 60 million consumers, is working well, and support is possible. Our first decision was to strengthen the existence of the CNI and the journal. For 2020, the INC is funded. I therefore agree with the Special Rapporteur's proposal: we must build a strategic vision for the consumerist movement – given that it has allowed certain associations to be regrouped, which are very well placed. They have played the game and now benefit from more effective action and consequently increased subsidies. It is necessary to give a trajectory to the consumerist movement, to its different modes of action, so that they can be organized according to a multi-year plan. We intend to start this work early this year, building on the INC and the DGCCRF, which is in the process of reorganizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u427	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u428	I do not understand your position, Mr Special Rapporteur: I had the impression that you shared my observation and the remarks made on the need to maintain the funding of the CNI; and yet you gave an unfavorable opinion on the amendment. Madam Secretary of State, you have also informed us of your agreement with our statement. Our amendment only calls for EUR 1 million to bring the appropriations back to 2017 and not hinder the INC's missions. I have heard that work is under way, but pending its conclusions, the CNI is helping to restore consumer confidence in the products offered on the market. I therefore insist that this amendment, modest by the cost involved, be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u429	I put to the vote Amendment No 998.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u430	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 51 Number of votes cast 48 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 16 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u431	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid the Secretary of State coming back this afternoon for only a few amendments, I propose that you sit beyond 13.00, but this implies that everyone is concise, and that he does not react – or overreact – to every intervention. Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor to support Amendment No. 1042.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u432	In line with your recommendations, Mr President, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u433	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 331.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u434	This amendment, which I do not intend to withdraw, is intended to increase the appropriations allocated to market surveillance. These appropriations, which finance part of the tests carried out on industrial products taken by the supervisory authorities, show a slight increase – of EUR 150000 – compared to 2019, allowing them to return to their 2018 level. However, the increase appears to be insufficient, given the importance of the checks to be carried out. Too many products that do not comply with national or European regulations still manage to penetrate the French market. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Since market regulation and security interventions are one of the three priorities of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, it seems consistent to increase the appropriations allocated to market surveillance under Action 23 of Programme 134. On the other hand, it is much less so to remove customs posts again and again, although they are particularly useful for monitoring fraudulent products entering France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u435	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u436	Unfavorable opinion. We have already discussed this issue. To date, we have not identified any concerns regarding market surveillance. Moreover, we do not know how you deducted the amount of EUR 150000, of which we do not understand the relevance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u437	We can offer more, if you wish!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u438	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u439	I will quote a few figures to support the Government's unfavorable opinion. In 2018, funding for this project has enabled almost 700 laboratory trials to be funded, 15% more than in 2017. In 2020, we propose to increase the appropriations dedicated to market surveillance to €685,000. This amount, significantly higher than the planned implementation in 2019, set at €600,000, seems to us to be well-sized to carry out future control campaigns. We therefore do not believe that an increase in appropriations is necessary, even though I agree with you on the importance of the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u440	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1000.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u441	This appeal amendment may answer Ms. Secretary of State's questions. Once again, we are sounding the alarm about the ruining of our industry. The Government must be aware of the scandal we are currently experiencing at national level, particularly with regard to the sale of Alstom to General Electric. This sale is an end-to-end fiasco. The State has shown an unworthy weakness at each stage: by agreeing to the sale, by not monitoring the implementation of the agreement, by not removing the purchasing options held by the Bouygues group and by refusing to sanction General Electric for non-compliance with the 2014 agreement. Today, we refer to the involvement in the ongoing proceedings of a former Minister of Economy who became President of the Republic. The Government is satisfied with an agreement that will cost 300 jobs to the benefit and on the basis of a company whose total disloyalty has been proven for years. By letting General Electric's French activities sink, he betrayed the nation's economic and industrial interests. The know-how accumulated over a century on the Belfort site has a heritage character. They certainly belong to the employees, but more broadly, as well as a monument, to all the French. These know-how are all the more valuable because once lost, they cannot be recovered. However, they are essential for the implementation of ecological planning and transition. By letting General Electric's French activities die, you place the country, in terms of energy production, in the hands of industrial giants and foreign powers, which is scandalous. We support all efforts to shed light on the circumstances that have produced the current situation and, by this amendment, we intend to focus on the problematic nature of your industrial policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u442	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u443	As you said, Mrs. Obono, this is an appeal amendment. The question you are asking the Government about is not related to programme 220, so I leave it to the Secretary of State to answer you. For the rest, I suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u444	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u445	I will not reply very much on this subject which we have discussed on several occasions. I hear the amendment is an appeal. Several questions were posed to the Government on our industrial policy, at which a meeting was devoted. However, I will remind you of three things. An agreement was reached for General Electric Belfort thanks to the strong involvement of Mr. Le Maire and my firm. I welcome not only this agreement, but also the efforts of the employees. As a result of the 2014 agreement, which applies in its entirety, we have 50 million euros. However, because it had been owned by General Electric since 1999, the site concerned by the job security plan did not fall within the scope of the agreement, through which we obtained a massive reduction in the social plan, covering 300 jobs. I would add that I am looking forward to moving soon to Cherbourg to inaugurate a new General Electric site with 600 jobs in the maritime wind industry. Here's the facts. However, it seems to me that we are moving away from the finance bill by referring to the Government's industrial policy, on which we regularly have the opportunity to return.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u446	I'm asking for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u447	Mr President, I wanted to take the floor again. I have the right to respond to the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u448	Mrs Obono, I have given you almost three minutes to introduce your amendment. You can't blame me for being a censor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u449	I could make a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u450	You have the right. You will do so on the basis of an article of the Rules of Procedure which you have previously indicated to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u451	I have before me a number of amendments to the supplementary article after Rule 76. First of all, Mr Buon Tan, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to support Amendment No. 183, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 1339.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u452	This amendment, adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, aims to have the Government submit to Parliament a report on the management and development of public export guarantees, so that we can evaluate, continue and scale up the reform of the Government's successful export support. Among the topics that can be improved are the sharing of the management of public guarantees between the State and public and private operators, the support of SMEs and first-time exporters, the use of recurring surpluses of credit insurance or the greening of these guarantees. A report would provide a clear picture of these issues and consider the reforms needed to improve the effectiveness of public export support policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u453	I suggest that you keep the floor to support sub-amendment No. 1339.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u454	This sub-amendment adds to the scope of the report an analysis of the contribution of public guarantees to the promotion of the euro's international role. Indeed, about 50% of our imports and 40% of our exports are invoiced in euros. These rates have been stagnating for ten years. Worse: if we exclude the energy sector and limit ourselves to extra-European trade, the share of the euro becomes marginal. [[MM. Mijid El Guerrab and Thierry Michels applaud]] This great weakness in the dollar allows the United States to subject all dollar transactions to its domestic law. Making the euro a currency able to compete with the dollar would have many advantages. We would like to see a study of how public export guarantees could help us achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u455	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment and the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u456	Neither the amendment nor the sub-amendment was considered in committee. I shall therefore speak in my personal capacity. I agree, of course, with your argument, Mr. Buon Tan. These topics are essential. Moreover, the Government could be asked to extend the purpose of the report to benchmarking, i.e. to compare the public aid scheme, including public export guarantees, with France and its partners and competitors. In general, we remain tremendously hexagonal and do not go to see what is happening abroad. During the hearings I was able to conduct for my report, I found that no agency, not even the Treasury Directorate-General, can accurately compare our public export support schemes with those of other countries. However, it is important to compare, as companies do, to identify both our strengths and the areas in which we can move forward. Personally, I am expressing a favourable opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment. It is always good for the Government to provide the Parliament with more information, which it is responsible for verifying.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u457	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u458	It is always difficult to resist a request for information from Parliament, because it is in the direction of democracy. However, any request requires work on the part of our teams, which, as a result, will not be devoted to anything else. But we must ensure that they are effective and able to achieve the goals you set for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u459	On the other hand, it's their job!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u460	Today we have some elements that you have communicated, such as the cross-cutting policy document "Développement international de l'économie française et commerce étrangère" and the annual performance reports attached to the finance bill. Mr. The Mayor announced that a review is under way of all export guarantees envisaged with a view to their impact on climate change. At the UN General Assembly, the President of the Republic said that our actions must also be consistent with climate change. The review, which we will forward to you, will be presented at the end of January. For the time being, we invite you to work on this, which will promote the accuracy of information on economic export guarantees, their economic impact and their effect on the ecological and energy transition. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House on the amendment and the sub-amendment that we have just discovered. We will ensure that we respond as best we can. I also hear the request for benchmarking, which I regularly ask my teams. We do not always enjoy a good visibility of what is being done abroad, and which belongs to the secrets of manufacture: in terms of export guarantees, each government seeks to hide its copy and conceal its action. It seems to us that we are relatively competitive, at least at European level, but we would like to know a little more about Chinese export guarantees, about which truth dictates that we do not have very clear information – but perhaps you could help us on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u461	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u462	Here? We're no longer in a hurry, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u463	Relationships are usually velitary and often useless. However, a study on the subject might lead us to question the proliferation of international trade-related organizations, which are walking on their feet. I remember that when I was teaching courses on international trade, it took an infinite amount of time to present these organizations; the students were amazed by their number. Above all, such a report would make it necessary to question the structure of foreign trade. It would allow us to think about strategies not only for the strengths – luxury, aeronautics, automobiles, and even armaments, which is certainly a particular field – but also and especially for the sectors where the lights are red: energy, machine tools, textiles, leather. It would be impossible to draft such a report without considering the need for upstream policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u464	Mr Buon Tan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u465	I thank the Secretary of State for her wisdom. We are aware of the amount of work required by each report. We do not ask for it for the pleasure of asking for it. Such a report would provide a clearer vision, as existing information is dispersed. Your proposal for benchmarking, Mr Special Rapporteur, is interesting – I have started doing this work for Italy, for example. It is difficult to find the information; We will also have to work together on China.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u466	Mr Frédéric Petit, in support of Amendment No. 512, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u467	It is also intended to draft a report, in this case on Business France's work abroad. I am the draftsman of the 185 programme, "Cultural Diplomacy and Influence", and I often wonder what public service should be abroad. I gladly give a satisfaction to Business France in the various areas where it has proved its worth: the management of VIE's contracts – international volunteering in companies – which we unfortunately did not talk about today; harmonising trade fairs and markets; the management of trade families, which has led to a remarkable change in the situation, of which we have not spoken either. On the other hand, we must be vigilant not only on the question of regionalisation, which I mentioned earlier, but also on the question of the establishment abroad of Business France. Their cost may be higher than that of other partners. Business France implicitly acknowledges this through the ongoing reform, since it has withdrawn from thirty-two countries; Agreements with chambers of commerce were signed instead. I recall that the war between the various services, which lasted for ten years, had begun in these settlements abroad. Business France has made different choices depending on the country: it has kept offices in some countries, signed conventions in others, and launched tenders elsewhere. A report would allow us to know, as of next year, the cost and reasons of these choices in terms of location – all that Business France calls "the last step" in supporting companies abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u468	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u469	The amendment was not considered by the committee. Personally, I'm sensitive to your arguments. With regard to the establishment of Business France abroad, a major reform has been under way since this year, which has so far involved some ten countries. Business France continues to provide its services, simply, it can delegate them, either in the context of a call for tenders for a public service contract, in the context of public service concessions, or through the referencing of private bodies. The aim of the reform is to strengthen without dispersing; there must be a single operator for each area – either Business France or a private operator to whom Business France entrusted this mission after a transparent tender. These are often French chambers of commerce and industry abroad, which shows their competence. France's foreign trade advisers also have their role to play, as you pointed out earlier. All of this is under way. I agree that the Government should be asked for a report on the implementation of the reform, the aim of which, I would remind you, is that 100 countries should be covered by Business France in different ways. However, should the report be requested this year? Sincerity obliges me to tell you that we should wait until next year. We have already voted in favour of a report on public export guarantees. The reform of Business France and its extension to foreign markets is under way. Let us trust the management of the structure, concerned with efficiency. Why not withdraw the amendment? It may be retabled, if necessary, next year, bearing in mind that special rapporteurs and other members of the national representation already have a number of analytical elements on the reform of this structure. To sum up, I propose that you withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, I would rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u470	Mr Petit, in order to save time, can you tell us right now if you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u471	I'm waiting to hear the minister's advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u472	I would warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that, despite my efforts, we will not be able to complete the examination of all the appropriations on the agenda this morning before the sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u473	We must therefore respect the rights of Parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u474	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u475	You're asking two questions, Mr. Little. I can already respond to the first: the budgetary impact of the reform for Business France, which designed, implemented and animate the Team France Export will be a reduction of 10 million euros in the subsidy for public service charges – SCSP – from the 134 programme in the period 2018-2022, the amount of the grant going from about 95 million euros to 85 million euros in 2022. This trajectory is enshrined in the contract of objectives and means signed by Business France and the State. The reform should enable Business France to absorb the effects of this drop in subsidies, notably through the pooling of resources with chambers of commerce and industry and the reorganization of its network abroad. The second question focused on the results: 2019 is the first year of operation of the Team France Export; A first assessment will be prepared by the Government in 2020. We are currently thinking about the methodology to be used to evaluate the performance of export accompaniment, our aim being to value incremental actions, down from the spontaneous trend. Work is therefore already under way on these issues, including within the framework of the Board of Directors of Business France, in which parliamentarians are represented. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u476	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u477	Madam Secretary of State, my question was not about these figures. I asked you why the settlements are kept in one country and not another, and what is the cost of the scheme for each country. There's an elephant in the room! Teams are currently being repatriated. Why choose to delegate to one country, launch a tender in another and leave the teams in place in a third? It is not right to say that we are going to a single operator. The accompanying work of the companies is carried out, far beyond Business France, on the ground, under radars, not only by chambers of commerce and industry and by foreign trade advisers, but also by a crowd of people – this was my case for two years – who do this work for ten times less expensive than Business France, which is nevertheless subsidized. I often say: Business France is very effective when it comes to kicking companies' buttocks in France; On the other hand, when it comes to accompanying French companies internationally, this is probably not the most economical solution. Finally, with regard to benchmarking, I would point out that the CNCCEF produced an excellent global report on China outside the walls in 2014. I recommend it to you, Madam Secretary of State. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u478	At the risk of getting out of my role, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that what has just happened is a perfect illustration of what is a problem in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u479	I call the appropriations of the trust account "International Monetary Agreements", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u480	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u481	It is based on rule 58 on the proper conduct of the proceedings. I was not allowed to respond to the Government when defending an amendment. Parliamentary debates are not organized to respond to the agenda of the members of the Government. Parliamentarians, on the other hand, organize themselves to be present at the meetings. We would like to be able to defend the amendments – which we have prepared seriously, which have political value and which contribute to the parliamentary debate – and then respond to the committee and the Government. I was forbidden to do so earlier, on the pretext that it was necessary to move quickly, while, immediately after that, amendments by the Government and colleagues were exchanged, each taking the time to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u482	These were not government amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u483	I am the only one to whom this treatment was imposed. I would like this to be reflected in the record. Among the amendments that we are now going to consider, several have been tabled by the members of the La France insoumée group; We must have two minutes to defend them, even if you are to interrupt us once that time has passed, and we must have the opportunity to respond to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u484	Earlier, you had more than two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u485	I will make a number of remarks, Mrs. Obono. [[Mr. Michel Lauzzana applauds]] First, section 58, to which you refer, is the only one that cannot serve as a basis for a point of order. Despite this, I have not interrupted you – proof of my great benevolence. Secondly, I gave you three minutes of speaking time earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u486	With the answer, I would have had four!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u487	Be aware that next time, I will apply the rules to the letter and you will not have another second.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u488	This will also be the case for the Government and for the deputies of the La République group on the move?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u489	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thirdly, you claim that I am in favour of the Government – I hope that the news will arrive in my constituency of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques: it will surprise many! I will now adjourn the meeting. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1050.u490	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020: Review of the appropriations of the trust account "Lending and advances to private individuals or bodies", the mission "Financial commitments of the State" and the appropriations of the trust accounts "French participation in the deleveraging of Greece", "State financial contributions" and "Advances to various government departments or bodies managing public services"; Review of the appropriations for the mission "External action of the State"; Review of the appropriations for the Official Development Assistance Mission and the Trust Account for Loans to Foreign States; Review of the appropriations for the Media, Book and Cultural Industries Mission and the Trust Account "Advances to Public Audiovisual". The meeting is adjourned.
