ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020 (No 2455).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u3	The discussion of the Social Security Financing Bill – PLFSS – for final reading, after a new text was adopted for new reading by the Senate, is not a usual exercise. This is an opportunity for me to take stock of a parliamentary debate which took place in particular circumstances and which has had to incorporate measures decided in parallel with the debates. The President of the Republic said: "We must hear the need expressed by hospital staff to accompany their efforts and continue the transformation they have undertaken". From the first reading, I relayed this message, which gave rise to exchanges, which nourished our reflection and enriched the announcements of 20 November. The expectation of these announcements led the Senate to reject the PLFSS at first reading. I have taken note of this, and the amendments tabled in it, which the Government wished to give a favourable opinion on, have been taken up again in this House, in particular by the rapporteur-general. The new reading also allowed the adoption of an amendment to the ONDAM level – the national health insurance expenditure target – for 2020, from 2.3% in the original text to 2.45%. We also committed to raising ONDAM to 2.4% in 2021 and 2022. Even if this is not, at this stage, included in the financing law, the next law on public finance programming will take this into account. We have been criticized for the lack of ads, called DIY or rafistolage. I leave to commentators the responsibility for their qualifiers and I will confine myself today, without false optimism or naivety, to reminding us of the scale of the financial measures taken by the Government in favour of the hospital: an ONDAM of 2.5 per cent in 2019, 2.45% in 2020 and 2.4 per cent until 2022; a tariff campaign in complete breach of the tariff reduction that has been going on for ten years; a full thawing of the appropriations put in reserve in 2018 and 2019; multi-year tariff commitment up by at least 0.2%; the recovery of one third of the debt stock by 2022, an effort of EUR 10 billion to restore air to the public hospital; EUR 150 million per year over three years to invest in improving the daily lives of caregivers. Since the tabling of the text, I have said how much the public hospital and the public hospital service have been a national treasure. The expression has been repeated, and more than ever today, I wish to reaffirm it. At the end of this discussion, I would like to return to the political purpose of the text that you are about to discuss. It reflects the convictions of this Government, first and foremost the commitment to more universal social rights – I am thinking in particular of single-parent families: Christelle Dubos and I are proud to have created a mechanism designed to provide security to single women, who are almost unthinkable in our social protection system until today. The Government is also committed to social rights that are more responsive to the risks of 21st-century society, more effective and less declaratory, and more emphasis on prevention to reduce intervention needs. [[Fiona Lazaar and Michèle Peyron applaud]] The Government's project has been enriched by many amendments that enhance access to care, a priority it shares. I know how worried the French are and I hear the echo you give them on a daily basis. These amendments have made it possible to improve access to treatments – thanks to Olivier Véran's amendment to test the use of therapeutic cannabis in the treatment of certain diseases – but also to access to innovative medical devices, through the introduction of early access, as is the case for medicines. It also improves access to care for children, through several measures to strengthen the capacity of the IMP centres – maternal and child protection – developed with Adrien Taquet, as well as the extension to all children, including those involved in the judicial protection of young people, from the health check to the entry to social assistance for children originally proposed by the Government, and access to innovative acts, through the renovation of the procedure for listing medical documents in the nomenclature to facilitate their dissemination and, above all, their reimbursement to insured persons. I will end with a few words of thanks. The discussion of the PLFSS is an exercise of endurance and, as we can see today with this definitive reading, a road full of unexpected. I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the quality and sincerity of the debate, whether we agree or disagree. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I particularly welcome the work of the Social Affairs Committee, its chairman, Mrs Brigitte Bourguignon, and its rapporteur-general, Olivier Véran, for your commitment and for your work. Finally, I thank the services of our administrations – the administrators of the National Assembly and the departments of the ministry – who work in very limited time and without counting their hours, as well as all the agents, collaborators, and bailiffs who keep the night rhythm of our debates without fail.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u4	Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u5	I almost want to say "Hello again" since we were still in this Chamber last week to review the text that we had already discussed a few weeks earlier. You know what I think of this adoption process – and what about the minister, who had to go through five readings of the same text in just a few weeks! The rules are thus made, however, and here we are gathered, with a pleasure that reads on all faces, to examine the bill on the financing of social security at final reading. I will be brief because, as several amendments inspired by the work of senators were adopted on a new reading, the points of convergence with the Senate opposition disappeared on final reading. So you will not be surprised to hear, throughout the debate, an opinion that is unfavourable to the amendments that come from the Senate and that are taken up by the opposition. I stress, however, that a large number of amendments from the Senate have been adopted by the Assembly on a new reading, thus helping to improve the content of the text and its consistency. Since the Assembly has the last word on this budget text, my last speech will be addressed to its main beneficiaries. I am thinking first of all of the employees who will once again be able to receive, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, an exceptional premium of desocialised purchasing power and defiance of up to 1000 euros, but also benefit from an agreement of interest in their company. I am also thinking of the beneficiaries of the caregiving leave – a great social advance – who can be compensated for three months. This makes it possible to better recognize the role played by caregivers in our society. I am thinking of the victims of pesticides in the agricultural sector who will finally benefit from better conditions of compensation thanks to the creation of a dedicated fund. Of course, I am thinking of healthcare professionals – the caregiver who works with elderly people in Val-de-Marne, who will receive an additional EUR 2000 as of next year and benefit from new career prospects. I think, then, of the beneficiaries of the allowance for adults with disabilities and of the active solidarity income for which the transition to retirement will be simplified. I am thinking of the 3,000 patients who will, for the first time, be able to use therapeutic cannabis to relieve the most often unbearable and insurmountable pains. I am thinking of families, especially the most vulnerable of them. In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, all single mothers who had so far suffered from the scandal of non-payment of maintenance payments will now be able to access a public pension payment service. The guilty neglect of some can no longer be translated into the burden or even poverty of others. I am also thinking of Mayotte's families, whose access to family benefits will be facilitated, especially for those who raise a child with disabilities. Finally, I am thinking of children who sometimes lack a family and are cared for by the child welfare services. They will now benefit from a comprehensive health check as soon as they are taken over by the public authorities in order to prevent the physical and psychological sequelae that this vulnerable population too often suffers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I particularly thank the Minister for the quality of our discussions and their constructive nature since the drafting of this text. The majority can be proud to vote for the last time – very widely I hope – the PLFSS for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u6	Mr Joël Aviragnet spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u7	The PLFSS for 2020 is a renunciation, an unambitious text marked by a neoliberal ideology that is deeply dangerous for our social protection system. The text you are asking us to pass is a bill to under-finance social security, public hospital, home help and EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent seniors. A waiver, I said, because you are creating a deficit of 6 billion euros, because you do not want to compensate for the exemptions from contributions that you have decided to make. While in 2017, we handed you a social security budget almost to balance, this deficit illustrates the government's lack of serious budget. Even more serious, in my view, it highlights your disastrous political choices: rather than helping the public hospital, you prefer to grant reductions in contributions to businesses and employers. Fewer public services, less social cohesion, gifts to the richest and a debt that goes up again: this is the political line of the moving Republic Party and the Government! Yes, this text is a renunciation because, in the face of the crisis facing the public hospital and emergency services throughout the country, you are proposing a health insurance budget that still asks the hospital to achieve €650 million in savings. This is all the more unacceptable since this budgetary austerity will not be used to defuse social security, on the contrary, but to finance reductions in social contributions. Budgetary austerity was imposed on hospitals after the 2008 and 2012 crises to restore social accounts. This decision was motivated by the fear of an explosion of social security during the economic crisis. Today, the economic crisis is behind us, France has returned to economic growth and inflation, attracts foreign investment and unemployment is slowly decreasing. The austerity cure you prescribe in the hospital is therefore completely unjustified and unbearable. Don't think it has no consequences: it has disastrous effects! In Saint-Gaudens, in my constituency, the emergencies closed for lack of nurses because their working conditions are harmful and inhuman; The population is more than two hours away from Toulouse Hospital – imagine the result. Everywhere, we observe the deterioration of working conditions, the doubling of nurses' workload and the increase in hospital staff absences due to health reasons. We are witnessing the industrialization of care and the dehumanization of the health professions. This text, Madam Minister, reinforces austerity and atrophy in the public hospital. All trade unions are opposed to this; The Inter-Emergences and Inter-Hospital collectives are also involved. Nothing has changed with the presentation of your hospital plan because it is insinuated and inconsequential. Indeed, you announced 300 million euros for the hospital this year; But the amendment you have adopted only provides for 200 million. Let's say, this plan is a drop of water for the public hospital: nothing about bed openings, nothing about recruitment, nothing about salary increases, except for a premium reserved for Parisians and a few sprinkler bonuses available to hospital managers. Is that how we'll respond to the crisis? Certainly not. Finally, to complement the criticism, pensions, pensions and family benefits are sub-indexed to inflation for the second consecutive year. This decision will result in a further decline in purchasing power for pensioners and families, even though an INSEE study, published in October 2019, showed that the Government's action had resulted in an explosion of inequalities and the number of people living in poverty. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] Your political choices have terrible consequences. Denying it is a matter of imposture. You will not be able to say that you did not know, you will no longer be able to say that it was the fault of those who preceded you, for you have been in command for two and a half years now. The disastrous situation of the public hospital is now your responsibility; It would be time for you to answer that question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u8	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u9	With the final reading of the Social Security Financing Bill, we are completing the review of social accounts for next year. This draft budget, on which our Assembly will have to vote tomorrow, is significantly different from the one submitted to us last October: the deficit for 2020, which was to be EUR 5.1 billion, is now 5.4 billion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u10	That's a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u11	... because of the Government's commitments to hospital staff and EHPADs. This is a continuation at the level set out in the 2019 forecasts. We have already had the opportunity to welcome the real effort of the hospital plan, but we can only regret its late arrival in the discussion, even though we should welcome the concerted efforts you have made to bring these proposals to fruition. Without having taken the problem at arm's length and adopted the necessary measures in due course, we are also moving away from the path of return to the balance of social security. In order to better understand the situation, I would like to recall, objectively, the trajectory observed in recent years: in 2015, Parliament had voted for an ONDAM, an increase of 2.1%; in 2016, 1.7%; in 2017, 2.2%. Chairman of the supervisory board of the Zuydcoote Maritime Hospital, I was one of those who at the time challenged the savings measures imposed on hospitals – a real austerity cure that led us to the situation we are experiencing today; Let's have the intellectual honesty to remind him. Of course, these measures will not solve everything, but this is certainly a first step to be encouraged. Beyond the hospital plan, the re-reading by both chambers did not make any significant changes. We therefore remain convinced that the Government is making a mistake with regard to the exceptional premium, since it does not exempt the very small enterprises from the condition of an agreement of interest provided for in article 7. We are not asking, as our colleagues in this chamber have chosen, to remove the entire agreement of interest for all businesses. The situation is and will remain different for small and large companies. We share your conviction and the desire to expand the culture of interest in our country. It is an essential tool for improving the social climate and improving purchasing power. We understand that the perpetration of the device does not mean its maintenance in the same way. Last year, the social emergency required an immediate and visible boost. This year, you prefer to anchor value-sharing logics within companies. Of course, we agree with this approach. However, the application of the condition to all small enterprises will, for this year, exclude them from the scheme. They are the ones who need it the most. On the other hand, forcing them to negotiate in a very short period of time to conclude an interest agreement is clearly not a simplification measure, given the complexities inherent in the procedure, even if the Ministry of Economy and Finance proposes a simplified form on its website. You're going to create unnecessary tensions and an incomprehension that doesn't have to be. Furthermore, as in our previous discussions on this subject, I would like to alert you to the particular difficulties that the new provisions on medical devices may create. I am still not convinced by the selective referencing mechanism introduced in Article 28, which risks, in particular, limiting the choice of wheelchairs for persons with disabilities, which they experience as a form of sleepiness of free choice. Particular attention will be required to ensure that each person can find the best model for him or her. If we have obtained by amendment the deletion of the "delivery" device, we continue to question the provisions relating to reconditioned wheelchairs. They should be clarified and ensured that the amendments will meet the applicable standards for new equipment, so as not to expose one to a new risk and the other to increased responsibilities. Finally, we regret the absence of a proactive policy in favour of the family. Family associations do not understand this approach, which has prevailed in recent years, while the birth rate is declining and the signals are red. The undervaluation of family benefits is, in our view, a new illustration. I do not go back to the real progress of this text, such as the creation of a compensation fund for land workers who are victims of pesticides or the introduction of a new mechanism for the payment of maintenance payments. We have already expressed satisfaction on these points. Allow me to focus on the compensation for caregiving leave, which is a first step, albeit a limited one, but symbolically very important one. The mechanism has been usefully clarified in our discussions: we have removed the requirement of seniority which it was necessary to satisfy in order to benefit from it. We hope that, in its assessment, our concerns will be taken into account and the avenues for improvement that we have proposed will form part of the solutions on the table. As you know, it is particularly appropriate to propose appropriate measures for young carers. The plan for caregivers, announced during our discussions at first reading, is a strong signal, which I appreciate to its full extent. This is the first public policy on the issue, but it will need to be expanded. Given that our citizens express strong concerns about the quality of care for older people, it is essential to strengthen public support for caregivers. It goes without saying that these measures will have to be supplemented very soon by a bill dedicated to the care of the elderly. You know, Madam Minister, the expectations of the actors and our fellow citizens on this subject. [[Philippe Vigier and the rapporteur-general applaud]] At the end of the review of this PLFSS, the IDU, Action and Independent group remains divided: some of my colleagues will abstain, while another will support you in the transformation of our health system. For my part, I continue to salute the good intentions shown, while encouraging you to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u12	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u13	Finally, we are finalizing the discussion of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020. This year, our debates have been atypical: the Senate having rejected the text at first reading, it is only today, at the final reading stage, that we can deal with the contributions and amendments that it proposes. The review of this PLFSS was also marked by the announcement of major measures to support the public hospital. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement once again welcomes this contingency plan and the budgetary effort that accompanies it. This is a strong response to the distress and anger expressed by caregivers, whose situation has deteriorated significantly for decades. We wish to pay tribute to their commitment here. Among the measures that will come into force in 2020, the rise in ONDAM – which will thus increase by 2.45% compared to 2019, the hospital ONDAM increasing by 2.4% – is an important first step. We therefore find it necessary to re-establish rule 59 as deleted by the Senate. Despite budgetary constraints, this text contains many provisions in the direction of simplifying our social protection system, improving the use of labour and increasing purchasing power. It thus responds to the demands of social justice expressed in recent months by the French. The funding arrangements for community hospitals and psychiatry, the reorganization of several key sectors of our health system or the introduction of a multi-year guarantee of funding for health facilities are all very positive points, which our group supports. These measures, complemented by the €1.5 billion public hospital support plan, are part of the overall approach adopted with the vote on the plan "My Health 2022", which will bear fruit in the medium term. Our group also supports the investment of 500 million euros in the construction of old age and autonomy, which anticipates the bill planned for the end of the year. However, we recall that this year's home care effort will have to be sustained in order to ensure a balanced dependency reform. In addition, the issue of home care cannot be overshadowed by that of family caregivers, who play a fundamental role in this area: without them, the care of dependent, sick and disabled persons would be impossible. That is why the members of the MODEM Group welcome the decision to compensate for the long-awaited caregiver's leave in the sector. This is a significant progress, but it can only be, as we have said, a first step; In particular, the question of the duration of compensation will have to be re-examined. At the initiative of Jocelyne Guidez, the Senate has introduced a mechanism to ensure the budgetary sincerity of the financing of this measure, by allocating perennial funds to the family branch and by exempting the CSG's allocation. This seems to us to be common sense, because it tends to secure the device over time and will allow us to envisage its rise in charge. We are also looking forward to the creation of a comprehensive care path after the treatment of cancer, another subject that is of particular interest to me. This is an innovative and essential measure for former patients, which has been enriched with a device specific to paediatric cancers. We will naturally be involved in the implementation of these provisions, which are very important for sick children. As far as family policy is concerned, I repeat one more time: although modest, our proposals, particularly with regard to the payment of the birth premium, have remained a dead letter this year again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u14	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u15	We regret it, but we will continue to work with all good will to consolidate the foundation of family policy. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] The fact-finding mission on the adaptation of French family policy to the challenges of the 21st century, which continues its hearings, will allow us to address this issue beyond the examination of a budget text, which cannot give way to a genuine debate of substance. We therefore make an appointment next year to make proposals that will aim to give the necessary impetus to the families of our country in today's society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u16	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u17	Imposture, scam, scam, trick, deception, I have sought different synonyms to describe what you are doing, minister, but none is strong enough to qualify your methods with regard to the anger of hospital staff. This fall, you offer us the spectacle of a wonderful manipulation. It's pretty classic, but this time, you've surpassed yourself! After a seven-month emergency strike and a massive mobilization from September of all the hospital services, the National Assembly was to say the least surprised that you proposed to it, for 2020, a €800 million savings plan on the public hospital. This was 800 million euros less despite the suffering of hospital staff; EUR 800 million less in spite of the spreaders that accumulate in the emergency corridors; 800 million euros less in spite of the alarm screams that were thrown at you. You were careful not to shout on the roofs what the consequences of this vote would be on the working conditions of hospital staff and on the quality of care. In its great compulsion, however, the majority had rushed to vote on this plan, discreetly, without boasting about it. Two weeks later, in front of the sling, you announced, great lord, a great plan for the public hospital. "History, a turning point, a turn," your words were so exciting that you would almost have believed it. "A billion and a half euros for the hospital, 10 billion euros for debt recovery, unprecedented investments..." Yes, but – because with you there is always a "but" – like every time, you have to look at what's behind these numbers and announcements made in big pump. After analysing in detail the measures announced, we understand that you will continue to save 600 million euros on the public hospital in 2020! For those who have the courage to follow, your editing is the following. You have announced $1.5 billion over three years, including $300 million for 2020. However, the amendment we discussed last week revealed that of the 300 million, 100 million were destined for the old age sector. So there's only $200 million left for hospitals. As this measure is in addition to the 800 million savings plan that you voted for a month ago, your savings plan does indeed amount to 600 million euros for 2020. The buckle is closed and the surrounding area is well-tangled. As for debt recovery, it would be spread over time and, according to the French Hospital Federation, only €90 million would be recovered in 2020. We are very far from the 4 billion needed for the hospital to recover the slightly less critical situation that it experienced a few years ago. Last Thursday, in Pont-à-Mousson, the hospital staff on strike showed me the letter you sent last week. They have very little appreciated your language of wood, because they live very concretely the consequences of your policy. This one follows its course, as in the past years, with ever more groups, closures of beds and services... This is the third PLFSS you are presenting to us, and you continue to put the blame on previous governments. Either, we all agree on that. However, how is it possible that Emmanuel Macron, Minister of Economy during the Dutch presidency, fully aware of the dramatic situation in the hospital, did not envisage any solution in his project when he decided to run for the presidential election? What's more, minister, some of your government colleagues were in the majority of power before 2012. Anyway, you won't make me believe any longer than no one knew about it. You will make me even less believe that no one had warned you and that the solutions were not possible at the time you were offered the position you currently hold! In these circumstances, how am I surprised that the implementation of your macabre plan is continuing today? How much longer are you going to play on words and deceive opinion? How many resignations, stoppages, accidents at work or, worse, suicides of hospital staff will it take for you to take their anger and ill-being seriously? How many people will have to die in emergencies because of lack of resources? The health situation is critical; Insecurity, growing; insults and attacks, more and more frequent. Today, all trades are welded to save the public hospital. There is no need to try to divide them by sectoral bonuses; It doesn't work! Caregivers do not ask for alms: they want their remuneration to be increased to the level of their work. By this PLFSS, you destroy social cohesion, you destroy what makes our society cement, you destroy care. Hospital staff are asking for only one thing: to be able to treat patients with dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So, minister, advice: step back now! Your accounting experiences have lasted long enough, that's enough, give them human and financial resources and let them heal in peace!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u18	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u19	During the presentation of the previous PLFSS, you welcomed the return to balance of social security accounts, obtained at the cost of a reduction in the rights of insured persons and a deterioration of the public hospital service. A year later, the table has nothing to do with the initial forecasts. The budget has a deficit of EUR 5.4 billion in 2019 and an announced deficit of EUR 5 billion in 2020. How did we get there? Quite simply by a pass-by trick consisting of breaking out of the hat a spectacular deterioration of social accounts, to provide a surement to unpopular measures. No government before yours had taken on the old policy of empty coffers, which consists of artificially digging a deficit to justify the reduction of public spending and demanding new sacrifices from our fellow citizens. The Government is working with the talent of an outstanding terrasseur, digging holes in revenues with massive exemptions from employer contributions – great art! With the transformation of the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – the exemptions now amount to €66 billion per year. The government's talent is also that of a usurer hanging on his tape. While the State had always borne the cost of social security for such reliefs, this year you decided not to compensate them in full, depriving social security of €3 billion of the resources essential to its activities. However, we have made proposals for new revenue: to subject the CICE to certain conditions or to eliminate unnecessary aid to companies, for example. You swept them all away with a back of your hand in the name of your obstinacy to reduce the so-called cost of labor. If you do not mobilize the necessary resources, you naturally evacuate the social emergencies we face from this budget, and actually multiply the renunciations. In doing so, you refuse to meet the health needs of our fellow citizens, as they continue to grow because of the progression of chronic diseases and the ageing of the population. You refuse to address the issue of medical desertification in rural areas. You refuse to derogate from the rule followed by successive governments, which makes ONDAM the main weapon used to plan health expenses. You are thus demanding to impose 4 billion euros of savings on our health care system next year, of which 1 billion will be borne by the hospital, your "national treasure" – it is true that the word is well chosen, since you continue to use it in the caisse. Of course, your last-minute DIY will reduce the bill by 300 million euros. This fourth plan already calls for another so much you refuse to accept the legitimate demands of hospital workers, who simply ask – to better fulfill their duties – more colleagues and salaries to the level. This budget also prevents the promotion of solidarity, as shown by the deindexation of family allowances and pensions above EUR 2000. Finally, you refuse to fully meet the challenge of losing autonomy, which is a real time bomb; the related bill is delayed, probably waiting to find new savings to fund it. In this month of December 2019, would the urgency be for you elsewhere? Is the reform of pensions, which occupies so much of our minds, also yours? Since the beginning of this mandate – as everyone can see – you have been attacking the rights of pensioners, who would be privileged, wealthy. You have already implemented this mantra with the undervaluation of pensions and the increase of the CSG – widespread social contribution. We have no doubt, therefore, that your reformary ambition conceals a disentanglement in good standing of the health system that we inherited from the National Resistance Council. In this gloomy picture, however, we give you a good point: the compensation for caregiving leave. It is a welcome step forward that our group has strongly supported, notably through the voice of Pierre Dharréville. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] It is, however, a very meagre consolation in a PLFSS for 2020, which marks the weakening of the financing of social security and the decline of solidarity for the benefit of our citizens. That is why, I will not surprise you, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u20	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u21	France is a country of progress, firmly committed to its values and always ready to overcome obstacles in order to build and strengthen itself. Today, I am confident and happy because the review of the PLFSS for 2020 leads to a complete and, I believe, deeply restructuring version. Indeed, the restructuring of our health system at the end of the breath is now indispensable. This PLFSS, with the latest measures in favour of public hospitals, represents a new brick in the ambitious construction site that we have been running for two and a half years now – a project whose main words are the co-construction, modernisation and restructuring of the French health system, thanks to the strategy "my health 2022", the reform of the pricing system, the overhaul of medical studies and emergency, psychiatry and digital plans. In fact, this text sheds light on our vision of a public hospital, which we want to be part of a health care system that is attentive to the quality and relevance of care. This new breath, which favours the patient and the healthcare team, is based in practice on a more flexible, efficient and fluid management between the city and the hospital, combined with a renewed attractiveness for the professions of the medical and social sector. There are many expectations, but let us not deceive ourselves, to respond to every need in isolation and in a specific way would not solve in any way the shortcomings inherited from the present system. That is why this bill is structured in four cross-cutting directions: valuing work, seeking more and more social justice, taking into account the constraints of our time and completely reshaping the funding of the health system. Thus, by extending the exceptional premium conditionally and simplifying the administrative procedures of the French, we send strong signals of valuing the work, in which we believe. By focusing on the economic stability of our country, we are creating more jobs, more wealth, more purchasing power, and above all more income for social security. Our social commitment is also illustrated by an improvement in the purchasing power of the French thanks to the emergency measures adopted in the amount of 17 billion euros, the upgrading of the social minimums and the support given to single-parent families. We have also committed the largest tax reduction in the Fifth Republic with a target of 27 billion decreases for individuals by 2022. In addition, the democratization of access to care for all French people throughout the country, including through the financing of community hospitals, will enable the entire population to benefit from an effective and responsive care system. Public hospitals, partially relieved of their debt thanks to the recovery of EUR 10 billion by the state, will be able to re-invest and ensure the constant evolution of their organisation in order to remain in line with the expectations and innovations of their time. Because we have taken full measure of the growing phenomenon of loss of autonomy, we decide to act both upstream and downstream to better accompany this transition. This is how this PLFSS innovates by creating for the first time a genuine caregiving leave, as necessary as expected by those who give their time to their loved ones. It is also from this perspective that we choose to invest in EHPADs to improve employment in this sector and to produce an incentive effect. It is also in order to anticipate the new needs and occupations linked to the loss of autonomy that we are gratifying solidarity as a cardinal value of our universal health system. With the review of this PLFSS came the time for taking responsibility. It took courage to admit that it was not enough to reinject money to solve all the problems. By shifting funding more effectively, with a great deal of sincerity and objectivity in terms of each person's priorities and roles, by refocusing the health system around access to care and making the patient his or her keystone, we are embarking on a turning point in history, in order to offer more satisfaction to the medical and social personnel and to enable them to be proud to exercise in a country that has believed in him or her, but which no longer hesitates to let him or her know by this bill. [[Brigitte Bourguignon applauds]] I have had the opportunity to say this many times over the last few weeks: this text, which we are about to examine in final reading, is virtuous and has no other objective but to create wealth and employment while guaranteeing the French a healthy social system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u22	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u23	This evening we come to the conclusion of the review of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020 – a chaotic examination, to say the least. After a presentation of a truncated PLFSS at first reading, for which we have demanded in loud and clear – but in vain – an increase of the ONDAM so that it reaches a minimum of its 2018 amount, you have despite our claims persisted in error throughout October, to end up giving in to the anger of the caregivers. After the honourable senators' refusal to consider a text that they soon understood would no longer be worth forty-eight hours after first reading, after a joint committee swept away with a back of hand, after a second reading examination in the National Assembly of the same text as the one adopted by your majority at first reading, we come this evening to what we might call a text with various social measures – far from what the PLFSS should be to solve the crisis of the health system that we know. I refer to various social measures, because I still want to retain a few provisions which we have approved: in Article 29a, authorisation on an experimental basis of the medical use of therapeutic cannabis; in Article 45, the creation of a daily allowance for the caregiver; in Article 45a, a relaxation of parental attendance leave; in Article 46, the creation of a fund for the compensation of victims of pesticides or, in Article 48, the establishment of a public maintenance service, which we called for. All these measures, we voted for them – which shows you our spirit of openness when the provisions seem good to us for French and French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u25	However, they do not compensate in any way for the Government's total lack of response to the deep crisis in our health system, as Mr. Dino Cinieri de la Loire and Mr. Charles de la Verpillière de l'Ain, present here, reminded me at the moment. We continue to strongly oppose this text, which has been denounced by all the representative bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u26	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u27	If there were only one reason, article 3 would be it alone. We remain firmly opposed to the failure of the State to compensate for emergency economic and social measures following the yellow vest crisis. It is not for social security, which you announced last year – with great reinforcement of communication – the return to balance, to bear this new deficit; We believe that you are making serious decisions that commit your responsibility for the future. At its second reading on the weekend, the Senate amended section 3 to remove these non-compensation provisions. This evening, however, we are returning to the text of the National Assembly, and unfortunately all the measures that the Senate has adopted will be swept away by a hand. You are also about to sweep away all the other improvements that the Senate has made to the text. I am thinking in particular of the removal of the obligation on employers to put in place an interest agreement to renew the "Macron bonus". I am also thinking of the savings you are imposing on the drug industry, which seriously undermine the innovative capabilities of our pharmaceutical industry; in the hospital sacrificed and relegated to the status of adjustment variable while since March, a new social movement is growing in the emergency services. I am also thinking of section 29 and your choice to repeal the possibility given since 2014 to official pharmacists to substitute a less expensive biosimilar medicine. I am thinking of your choice to transfer funding from Public Health France to health insurance. Finally, I am thinking of the total absence of a true family policy in this text, even though we are warning you of the decrease in the number of places in crèches created: 2000 places less than in 2017. As we know today, your goal of creating 30,000 crèches between 2018 and 2022 as part of the poverty plan can no longer be achieved. And what about the fate that article 49 reserves to kindergarten assistants? They are revolted that you require them to publish their identity and contact details on the CNAF website – Caisse nationale des allocations familiales. What about the unindexing of family allowances and retirement pensions? Given the seriousness of the situation, you have just released an emergency plan for the hospital, which I approve of certain measures, while regretting that provincial caregivers feel completely excluded. However, we warn you: this plan is far from responding to the crisis in our health care system. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Your PLFSS illustrates your lack of vision for the future. The Republican Group will therefore not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u29	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u30	It was necessary to wait for a strong social mobilization to give more body to your text. Indeed, the Government's announcements on the public hospital, unveiled after the 14 November health care workers' demonstration, have changed the trajectory for 2020. They propose an increase of EUR 300 million and up to EUR 1.5 billion over three years. In addition, the Libertés et Territoires Group had already recognised this, this PLFSS 2020 contains real progress: the establishment of a public maintenance payment service, the creation of a post-cancer support package, the creation of the fund to compensate victims of pesticides and the compensation for the leave of caregivers, even if it appears that it will be necessary to go even further in the future. I will also mention measures to simplify and improve relations with the administration. You will also understand, Madam Minister, that I particularly welcome your decision, during the same period, to include in the common law the care of the second accompanying a child residing in Corsica and having access to care on the continent. But the concern about the future of the public hospital and, more generally, our health care system remains great. We are concerned that the level of the hospital ONDAM is very low, although we welcome your choice to set it at 2.4% instead of the 2.1% originally planned. As we know, the structural reform of the ambulatory curve, which we encourage, will take time to produce its effects. However, if significant funding is not provided immediately, the challenges of our health care system will worsen, and the measures outlined in the hospital plan are still timid in the face of the challenge of hospital attractiveness, more than ever at risk. It is not a few targeted bonuses, some of which are limited to the Paris region, that will suffice to achieve the necessary salary revalorisation of dedicated but exhausted staff. I have met with them several times, at the Bastia Emergency Service, and send them a message of support and friendship. I know that their work is for them a mission of life, a gift of self. I also know that what is true in Bastia is true in all emergency services in the territory. Finally, beyond the problems of access to health care and medical desertification, our group remains in deep disagreement with all the measures you have decided, which run counter to purchasing power – in the first place, the underindexing of certain pensions and social benefits. We are concluding our examination of this text on the eve of a social mobilization which, as we know, will be important. And today's challenges will be even more intense in the months and years to come. Will the answers we will provide be up to date? You offer us little certainty with this text, especially since your budgetary and economic arbitrage will increase the social security deficit, estimated at over €5 billion by 2020. With this in mind, we regret the failure to compensate social security for the loss of revenue associated with the emergency measures voted during the yellow vest crisis. Will we live up to the challenge of ageing the population? We are waiting to know your intentions with respect to the support of the elderly, with the Big Age and Autonomy Bill. The report submitted by Myriam El Khomri presents interesting measures, in particular on the salary revalorisation of older occupations. Will we live up to the challenge of ensuring a fair and efficient pension system? The reform you will be presenting today concentrates – as you know – all the concerns. And the question of savings measures arises more if we consider that by 2022 the old-age sector will have a deficit of EUR 5 billion. Finally, will we live up to the challenge of the sustainability of our social security model – a model that protects every citizen from poverty and inequality, from disease and accidents, from dependency, from exclusion, from environmental risks? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In the face of this major issue, the Social Security Financing Bill still seems to us to be insufficient, but, given the progress I mentioned earlier, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u31	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u32	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 51, 65 and 79. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u33	Paragraphs 10 to 13 of Article 3 provide that the loss of revenue resulting from "yellow vest measures" shall not be compensated by the State for social security. This derogation from the principle of compensation already weighs heavily on the balance of its accounts, since its deficit is expected to reach EUR 5.4 billion this year, whereas, before the yellow vest crisis, the Government had announced a surplus of 1.5 billion. It will also have serious consequences for the various branches of social security. We therefore propose the deletion of those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u34	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u35	This amendment, which follows the terms of an amendment adopted in the Senate, aims to eliminate the non-compensation of revenue losses from the social security budget caused by the economic and social emergency measures decided by the Government in December 2018. Indeed, breaking with a logic that has prevailed since the Veil Act of 1994, article 3 provides that emergency measures decided by the State will be borne entirely by social security, not by the general budget of the State, so that the Government's communication weighs on the amount of future benefits of contributors. The Senate followed the opinion of its general rapporteur, who stated that none of the non-compensation measures "does not correspond to a social security policy, but all correspond to a State policy of distributing purchasing power to the French", and concluded: "It is therefore appropriate that the decision-maker should bear the financial cost of his decisions, in a sense of responsibility. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u36	Amendment No 79 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u37	On the question of non-compensation in general, of compensation under Article 17, of non-compensation for the exemption of innovative start-ups – JEI – and of non-compensation for the specific conventional break-ups in the civil service, we cannot say that we have not had a debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u38	Yes, but he was monolithic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u39	On the contrary, I found it very varied. We can even say that the suspense lasted until the end of the second night session dedicated to the first reading! But the discussion is behind us. There is no need to reopen the debate, now that we are on final reading. On all the amendments concerning non-compensation, I shall therefore give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u40	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u41	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u42	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u43	For my part, I find it very opportune to reopen the debate on non-compensation, because when you make a mistake, it is always time to see it when you start the next reading! At second reading, Mr rapporteur-general, you have made some improvements to certain articles – notably Article 49, of which we have spoken a lot – following the comments we made to you at first reading. And, if I remember correctly, at first reading, on Article 3, you were not far from the positions defended at the moment by Mr Cinieri, Mrs Fiat and Mr Aviragnet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u45	The Committee on Social Affairs then approved the amendments to delete these paragraphs, indicating that they pose a major problem. In any case, I agree with the position of our colleagues: when the state makes arrangements such as the various economic and social emergency measures decided in December 2018, which we approved, it is up to it – and certainly not to social security – to finance them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u46	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u47	Article 7 renews the exceptional premium scheme established by the Act of 24 December 2018 on economic and social emergency measures, but makes it conditional on the establishment of an interest agreement. However, not all companies have the financial capacity to involve employees in their performance or performance. Under these conditions, making exemption from the exceptional premium conditional on the implementation of an interest agreement will exclude a large number of companies from the scheme and penalise their employees. We therefore propose, by this amendment, to delete the condition of agreement of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u48	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u49	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u50	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u51	As you know, a majority of TPE-SME employees are deprived of a stable value-sharing mechanism. However, the Government wishes to deploy such processes within small businesses. It has made the development of interest and participation agreements a priority, and the exceptional bonus a lever to promote this policy. So I have to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u52	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u53	I am not against interest in companies, on the contrary. I even consider it necessary to develop it. But I repeat: subordinating the purchasing power premium, or "Macron bonus", to the existence of an interest agreement will deprive many employees, who will therefore regret your position.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u54	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 66 and 114. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u55	The purpose of this amendment, which follows the terms of an amendment adopted in the Senate, is to delete the provisions of Article 8 relating to the bonus-malus on employer's unemployment insurance contributions related to the use of short contracts by employers in certain sectors. If we are in favour of imposing sanctions on companies that abuse CSDs, we are opposed to paying bonuses to those that only enforce the law. One more word, rapporteur-general. You tell us that the debates took place at first and second readings. But if we are in this Chamber for final reading, it is because we still want to discuss, defend our ideas, make proposals and know why. If you are so upset about the debate, you should have warned us. In that case, I would have stayed in my constituency, supporting the mobilization that is being prepared. If I've come all the way here, it's for the discussion to take place and I want it to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u56	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 114.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u57	The amendment is intended to delete the provisions of Article 8 relating to bonus-malus on employer's unemployment insurance contributions linked to the use of short contracts by employers in certain sectors. This scheme, the sole purpose of which is to ensure that the bonus-malus scheme will have its full effect, regardless of the employee's remuneration, is strictly related to unemployment insurance. Its effect on social security accounts would be very minor, if not somewhat artificial. However, according to the constitutional and organic law in force, unemployment insurance does not fall within the scope of the social security financing laws. That is why the Socialist and related group proposes to remove these provisions as contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u58	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u59	I'm going to reassure Mrs. Fiat first. It is not up to anyone here to deprive anyone of the debate. The right-wing Senate majority adopted amendments. You dropped off the same ones. It is legitimate for us to discuss it here. These amendments were not discussed at the second reading, but some Members supported an almost identical position, which was to abolish the bonus-malus system on employer's unemployment insurance contributions. Mr. However, Aviragnet invokes a new constitutional argument, asking whether the measure has its place in the PLFSS. In my opinion, it is. Of course, if you seize it, the Constitutional Council will have to decide, but when it ruled on the 2018 LFSS on 21 December 2017, it considered that the legislator could decide on the wage contributions for unemployment insurance, as long as the provisions concerning them were part of a comprehensive reform on the contributions of assets. In this case, we are looking at one of the consequences of this reform. In addition, the provisions you wish to remove also have a financial impact on the other branches of social security, if the bonus goes beyond the scope of unemployment insurance contributions alone. As such, it seems to us that they have their full place in the PLFSS. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u61	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u62	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u63	Minister, you are opening Pandora's box by rewarding businesses simply for complying with the law. I repeat an example used in first and second readings: do holders of a driver's licence, if they have complied with the rules and have not broken the road code for a year, have to receive a bonus? Don't open Pandora's box. Give the employer a bonus simply because it respects the rules, the law: that's the logic we denounce. It's still strong coffee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u64	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 115.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u65	In the framework of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019, the Government has decided to revise the scales of the exemption scheme introduced by the Law for the economic development of overseas countries, known as LODEOM, and the list of sectors of activity concerned by it. Under the current version of the text, for the sectors eligible for this scheme, the exemptions will now be total for wages below or equal to 1.7 SMIC and then degressive for those below 2.7 SMIC. With this far-reaching reform, the Government is refocusing the maximum exemptions from employer social security contributions on salaries close to SMIC. Such a lowering of the exemption thresholds clearly does not correspond to the characteristics of the wage bill in the sectors concerned. In order to better structure themselves against their international competitors, to innovate, to allow the increase in production range, the ultramarine companies need to hire and retain their best trained and most efficient staff. They need to raise the level of qualification of their employees and to recruit them at higher levels. The operative part of this amendment had already been adopted by this House at the first reading of this text, and by the Senate at a new reading. The aim is to raise the threshold for the beginning of degression and exit of the "LODEOM" scheme for exemptions from employers' social security contributions. The starting threshold for linear degression would thus be increased from 1.7 SMIC to 2.2 SMIC, and the exit point would increase from 2.7 SMIC to 3 SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u66	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 63, 67 and 86. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u67	The amendment reproduces a provision adopted in the Senate for further reading. It is intended to eliminate the non-compensation of the exemption from social contributions and contributions for the specific conventional break-up allowance in the civil service, in line with the other amendments relating to the non-compensation measures filed on this PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u68	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u69	This amendment also includes a provision adopted in the Senate. It aims to eliminate the non-compensation of the exemption from social contributions and contributions from the specific conventional break-up allowance in the civil service. It takes up the position adopted by the members of the Social Affairs Committee on non-compensation measures during their first examination of this draft law on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u70	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u71	By this amendment, the Socialist and Related Group intends to remove the non-compensation measures decided by the Government, which create an artificial deficit in social accounts. The current social security deficit is part of a particular situation: while the balance was almost reached, it is growing again, and the measures in the plan for the hospital that you have just announced will further aggravate it by EUR 200 million, since no new funding is foreseen. The current situation, which is extremely tense, cannot last, as my colleagues have pointed out. The hospital is on fire and blood, conflicts are multiplying, and you keep acting like everything's okay. That's not acceptable. You must be aware of this: we are going into the wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u72	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 59 and 64. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u73	Article 9b modifies the tax base on "premix" beverages. In order to tax winepops at the level of EUR 3000 per hectolitre of pure alcohol, the article deletes the reference to Council Regulation No 1601/91 of 10 June 1991 on flavoured wines, aromatised wine drinks and flavoured wine cocktails. In further reading, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to accompany the extension of the tax base by updating the references to the European regulations mentioned in Article 1613a of the General Tax Code. Despite this change, in the case of the sector concerned, Article 9b does not remove conflicts of interpretation on the products concerned by the modification of the base. To dispel this confusion and clarify things, it is necessary to postpone the entry into force of this measure by a few months. I recall the commitment of the wine industry to the implementation of the sector plan, which includes a component to prevent harmful alcohol consumption, in line with the two priorities set by the Government: pregnant women and young people. The profession is also engaged, with the Autorité de régulation professionnelle de la publicité, in a responsible communication approach. The provisions of this amendment were adopted for further reading in the Senate. This is to postpone the entry into force of the amendment to the "premix" beverage tax base until 1 July 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u74	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor in support of Amendment No 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u75	I will not resubmit the amendment; Mr. Cinieri did it very well. I also do not wish to relaunch the debate on this article – what has been voted on, and I respect the work done in this House. Simply put, the current wording maintains a great deal of confusion about the products concerned by the tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u77	We cannot get a single answer: the Ministry of Agriculture proposes one interpretation, the wine-growing sectors have another, and the general rapporteur of the draft law on the financing of social security sets out another. I believe that a period of six months should be granted to those involved in the sector, in order to enable them to see more clearly and to prepare themselves for the effects of this change in the tax, even though they have not been involved in the development of this measure. It wouldn't cost you much. We must respect sectors which are responsible for a large part of the surplus in the French economy's trade balance. [[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] The Senate has adopted a similar amendment – we have accepted it as it stands. On behalf of all the Members of the Vine, Wine and Oenology Group and, more broadly, of all the Members elected in constituencies where winemakers work, I ask that a period of six months be granted so that we can see more clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u78	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u79	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u80	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u81	As you know, the debate has already taken place at length and on several occasions, here and in the Senate. We are absolutely convinced that we will have to work with the sectors concerned. I understand the questions and requests for clarification on the drinks that will be affected by the tax. However, in its current wording, the article sends a signal to our youth that it is very important to preserve. Setting up a six-month deadline would weaken our political message. For this reason, we are against this amendment, and you are asking to withdraw it. Failing that, unfavorable notice. It is very important to pursue decisively the policy of combating the alcoholisation of young people, in which this amendment of the tax is part.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u82	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u83	Minister, I do not often agree with you. However, on this point, which concerns youth alcoholism and deviant and addictive behaviour, you can rely on well-substantiated reports, and the members of the Socialist and related group can only agree with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u84	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u85	I did not want to relaunch the debate; But still, Madam Minister! I have children, the youngest of whom is 21 years old. I assure you that the problems of alcoholism among young people are not explained by premix drinks. You know very well that the causes are strong alcohols but also and especially beer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u86	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u87	As you can see, we are not defending this amendment because we would oppose the prevention of alcoholism among young people. I have children, and this question concerns me first and foremost, like the many other parent MPs. Do you really think that the taxation of "premix" drinks will put an end to youth alcoholism? If that is the case – since I hope that an assessment of the effects of the measure will be made – I will make my mea culpa, right here, in front of you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u88	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u89	In any event, it seems to me that granting six months to the players in the sector would not cost you much. I do not withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u90	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 61, 68 and 91. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u91	In line with Amendment No 51 tabled in Article 3, which aimed to eliminate the non-compensation of certain revenue losses in 2019, the purpose of this amendment to Article 17 is to remove the provisions providing for the sustainability of the non-compensation of the measures adopted last year; Senators, in new reading, voted in favour of a similar amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u92	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u93	The amendment reproduces a provision adopted in the Senate. It aims to eliminate the new measures for the non-compensation of revenue losses by the State provided for in this bill on the financing of social security. This is an amendment of consistency; It takes up the position adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs on Article 3 during its first examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u94	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u95	For my part, I will not talk about the winegrowers, but about the nursing staff, which is at the end. You have to go further, Madam Minister. I studied the measurements of your plan for the hospital and did not bother to give my group's position on it. I went around the hospitals in my constituency. The plan currently only translates into cash advances, which have an impact only on hospital investment; not at all on the conditions of practice of the health care staff. The current movement will not stop, and you will have to hear their demands, in one way or another. I think we'll be back in a little while.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u96	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 62, 69 and 116. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u97	It is important to address the inconsistency between the discourse and the practice of the Government, by re-establishing full compensation for the cost of the social niche in favour of innovative start-ups. This measure would not, moreover, have any effect on the exemptions granted to these undertakings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u98	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u99	The amendment incorporates a provision adopted by the Senate. It aims to remove the ceiling on social security compensation from the cost of exemptions specific to innovative start-ups. Beyond the immediate cost of this measure, the principle of this cap is particularly shocking when it comes to financing a ministry's sectoral policy. Even the Government's report to Parliament on financial relations between the State and social security goes in this direction; "The recasting of the clearing rule should not apply to targeted exemptions. Targeted reductions in social contributions are public policy tools that could have taken the form of budgetary allocations. It is virtuous for the departments responsible for these policies to assume responsibility for them. This principle of full compensation in the form of budgetary appropriations makes it possible first of all to identify the efforts made towards the different targets of these reductions. It then limits the creation of social niches, applying the principle of "prescriptor-pays". »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u100	Amendment No 116 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u101	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u102	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u103	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u104	I repeat, by default, the amendment adopted by the Senate, which replaces, in paragraph 10 of rule 24, the words; "to assess the geographical coefficients linked to the specific factors of these territories and the different methods of financing to which they are subject", by the words: "to re-evaluate the geographical coefficient from 31 % to 34 %, as it does not allow the entire additional costs of insularity and isolation to be covered, and in addition it does not apply to missions of general interest which, however, would require it for some". The geographical coefficient has not been reassessed for more than ten years, which, in Réunion, severely penalizes the health service and creates inconsistencies with other overseas territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u106	I suggest that you withdraw the amendment, because honourable senators may not have seen that they were replacing the re-evaluation, or evaluation, of the geographical coefficient in the Overseas Territories with a re-evaluation of the geographical coefficient "from 31% to 34%" in the Overseas Territories. To date, however, Réunion is the only ultramarine territory with a geographical coefficient of 31 per cent. Adopting the amendment would exclude from the report on the financing of hospitals all the other overseas territories and Corsica, which were included in the scope of the report at second reading. This would be a bad blow to all the ultramarine territories, which are waiting a lot for this report. For these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u107	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 71 and 117. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u108	It takes back the one tabled by our colleague Senator Esther Benbassa. Article 25 of the Act makes a major reform of the system of staffing the French psychiatric environment. The population allocation would be distributed among the regions taking into account social and demographic criteria, the needs of the population, the characteristics of the provision of hospital and extra-hospital care, and the medico-social supply in the territories. However, the network of psychiatric hospitals in France is particularly uneven: regions are isolated, particularly in rural, mountainous and ultramarine areas. These regions lack adequate staff and infrastructure. It is proposed that consideration be given in the allocation of allocations to the distance that separates isolated regions from their neighbouring regions. The objective, in the long term, is of course to ensure a coherent and denser network throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u109	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 117.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u110	Article 25 provides for the reform of the system of staffing the French psychiatric environment. The network of psychiatric hospitals in France is particularly uneven: territories are isolated, especially in rural, mountainous and ultramarine areas. These regions lack adequate staff and infrastructure. It is proposed that consideration be given in the allocation of allocations to the distance that separates isolated regions from their neighbouring regions. The issue of distance in rural areas is fundamental. Distance creates terrible inequalities, which should be taken into account. This is quite true of psychiatry, which is in great difficulty, to say the least.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u112	We are finding out about these amendments, tabled very late. They are somewhat capillotracted, if I may say so, because the text already provides for account to be taken of the characteristics of the provision of care, as well as demographic and social criteria, for the allocations to psychiatry. The amendments are therefore fully satisfied because the demographic characteristics cover the distance between establishments, whether in the same region or in neighbouring regions. Why are you focusing on distance? I come from a mountainous region, where distance does not mean much: between Savoie or Haute-Savoie and neighbouring territories, there may be very mountainous landscapes, in which distance is not the most relevant criterion. That of demography, inscribed in the text, suffices and is moreover fairer than that of the distance between one establishment and another situated in a neighbouring region. I am sorry, but my point is a little disjointed, because we are finding out about the amendments, but the opinion is frankly unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u114	I would like to respond, because we share the same concern about the strengthening of psychiatry, particularly in the overseas territories. Your amendment seems to me to be perfectly satisfactory. Indeed, the reform of psychiatry pricing that we are proposing is aimed precisely at better equipping the regions, whose provision of care is insufficient. The overseas territories will benefit greatly from the planned catch-up, as they are very late. You wish to retain the criterion of population density within the regions, which is very well taken into account in the tariff reform, since it is one of those which the RSAs will use to allocate funding within the regions. It seems to me that your amendments are largely satisfied: I ask you to withdraw them; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u115	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u116	The question of demography and distance is different. Distance characterizes access to care. Mr rapporteur-general, you are talking about mountains, but you know, like me, that behind the distance, travel time is hidden: in the mountains, when it snows, travel time increases. Let's not go back to these questions that you know as well as I do! This factor has to be taken into account in one way or another for the financing of hospitals and small structures. Once again, we are talking about access to care for people living in these areas, an issue that is causing insecurity in them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u117	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u118	It aims to ensure more qualitative outpatient care permanence, by adapting it more to the needs of the population. We propose that the supplementary allocation allocated to establishments that meet criteria for improving the quality and organisation of care for the emergency medical care activity be linked to a contract with outpatient health professionals, mentioning time limits for permanent care adapted to the health needs of the population. The goal is to improve the quality of care, because you know, like me, the problems of permanent ambulatory care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u120	I share your concern, but I am not sure whether it is consistent, productive or pragmatic to correlate emergency funding, the object of this article, to contracting with city health professionals, within the framework of the territorial health professional communities – CPTS. First, how do we do it when there are no city health professionals? We have to pay for the operation of the emergencies! I do not think it is desirable to make emergency financing conditional on this contract with liberal professionals. I do not think that would satisfy your wishes, Madam Member. I recommend that you withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, my opinion would be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u122	This amendment has a very good intention, but it poses problems for us. You propose to link staffing to the quality of emergency services to the permanence of outpatient care. This is an appeal amendment, because it deals essentially with the permanence of city care. I am aware that this is a point of attention, particularly with regard to the liberal physician unions, but I would point out that the permanence of care is a public service mission, organised by the RSAs in accordance with the needs of the population and the availability of care in the territory. It is the subject of a regional specification, adopted after a departmental consultation. The timetables for the mission of the permanence of care are set by the regulatory and non-legislative power. In the context of the emergency restructuring pact, which I presented in September, I proposed that each professional make a contribution to avoid unnecessary emergency passages, while providing a response to patients. The organization of a response to unscheduled care outside the current time frame of the permanence of care is an important lever of the "my health 2022" plan entrusted to the CPTS. The treaty agreement signed between the CPTS and the CNAM last June is in this direction. Finally, I hear the demands of the Liberal doctors to go further and change the schedules for the permanence of outpatient care. As we have already said, we are not opposed to working in this direction, but the coming months must be given priority to the territorial deployment of the CPTS and their missions, which include unscheduled care. I ask you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u123	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u124	The idea is to remind doctors of the need to make guards. Medical desertification in some sectors is even more prevalent. We can withdraw the amendment, but we must deal with it, because we know that there are holes in the snowshoe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u125	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u126	This issue is very often debated in the media and in this House. We must not take the risk, as we live in an unprecedented medical shortage, with a declining medical demographic and a difficulty in attracting general practitioners to the underserved territories, of fuelling the reluctance of doctors to settle in these areas by imposing guards on them. That's not what we're looking for. We want to promote responsible and collective organizations, not impose individual constraints on doctors. This would feed the concerns of those considering settling in a subdensity area. If a doctor willing to settle in such a zone were to be subject to mandatory guards, he could reconsider his choice, for fear of having to provide two or three guards a week. We must be very careful not to discourage doctors who are inclined to go to the subdensity zone. Any obligation to take guards that does not result from concerted action could lead to an effect totally inverse to the one we expect, namely the presence of doctors in the under-density areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u127	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u128	It aims to eliminate the possibility of experimenting with a patient's reorientation package by a service or emergency reception and treatment unit, introduced in the Social Security Financing Act for 2019. The major problem of congestion in emergency hospital services cannot be solved by this package, which aims to charge a hospital benefit for the reorientation of patients to city care. In addition to not being part of an upstream co-operation between the city and the hospital, one may wonder about the choice of paying an unfulfilled medical act, moreover more expensive in emergency service than in city medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u129	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u130	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u131	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u132	The reorientation package, of course, is not enough to solve the emergency crisis – it has not been assigned such an objective, and we have deployed a wide range of measures – but its removal would not help. As I said at first reading, we are launching an experiment, based on a closed framework, which will be operational at the beginning of next year. This experimental framework will feed into work on the new model of emergency financing, promoted by article 26 bis of the draft law. We are therefore against your amendment to delete this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u133	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 74 and 119. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u134	This is an editorial amendment to replace the words "maybe" with the word "and" in article 28, paragraph 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u135	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 119.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u136	He's forbidden. Madam Minister, I am well aware – as you have said on several occasions – that you do not want to impose on doctors hours of duty. The problem is the same with their installation in sub-donored areas. You claim that the selective or territorial agreement implemented in other countries did not work. I have read a study showing that this device has worked very well in Canada.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u137	No! I checked on the spot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u138	You're quoting Germany, but what studies do you rely on? Obviously, we do not read the same! I'm ready to be contradicted. If you say that this device does not work, you have read studies in this direction. If you could take advantage of it, I'm just asking to be convinced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u140	I do not wish to put a piece back into the debate machine on the under-doing areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u141	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u142	Mr. Aviragnet, you cannot say that the selective treatying arrangement adopted in Canada is working. There, a medical desert is 300 kilometres away between two doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u143	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u144	I invite you to find, on the map of France, an area where this distance exceeds even 10% of that figure. In addition, physicians who settle in this framework receive $100,000 a month. This is the coercive measure in effect in Canada, Mr. Aviragnet: 100,000 Canadian dollars per month for each physician who settles within 300 kilometres of another, which is explained – it is easy to imagine – by the extent of the territory, often taken by snow – in this season, the temperature is usually less than 24°. We can't compare what's not comparable. In this case, coercion did not work. The evidence is that the system is based on the award of a high monthly premium. Mr Aviragnet, if you are willing to pay doctors 100000 euros a month to settle in the underfunded areas, there will be candidates, but we will have to find the funding that goes with it. Unfavorable opinion on identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u145	They're editorial!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u146	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u147	Madam President, I intend to jointly defend Amendments Nos 75 and 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u148	Please, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u149	Amendment No 75 is intended to include in the Official Health Products Bulletin information on their marketing authorisation, which is not a mandatory step for health products. This will allow us to keep track of each stage of their marketing, and hence the associated responsibilities. Amendment No 76 is an amendment of common sense. We defended it at the first reading of the text and at its new reading. It was adopted by the Senate for further reading. The transfer of the financing of Public Health France from the State to health insurance, provided for in article 31 of the text, takes place three years after the Government has made the opposite choice, within the framework of the initial finance law for 2017. It then seemed legitimate to charge the State for the full funding of this health operator, primarily responsible for epidemiological surveillance, prevention and health promotion, in addition to those provided by the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency (ANSES). In a context of increasing health risks, strongly mobilising our epidemiological surveillance agencies, the amendment aims to avoid a disengagement of the State from the funding of Public Health France and a weakening of the national control of our health monitoring policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u150	Amendment No 76 by Mr Adrien Quatennens was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u151	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 77 and 120. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u152	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u153	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 120.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u154	It aims to ensure that beneficiaries of the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH – are the subject of an information approach on their potential eligibility for complementary health care and support by health insurance funds for their efforts to open or renew rights. Mr General, I am not asking you to do a vaudeville exercise. I know the situation of physicians in Canada. I am simply asking you on what report or on what kind of technical study you rely on to say that selective agreement does not work elsewhere, so that we can study it and possibly transpose certain elements of it into the French system. My approach is to be constructive...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u155	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u156	...and, to take up a term that you love, pragmatic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u159	Mr. Aviragnet, I never claimed that you were unaware of the situation of physicians in Canada. I have merely responded to your assertion that selective agreements are working in this country. That is not the case. Of which act. This is a fact – it is even more than pragmatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u160	I've read studies that show it's working!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u161	With regard to the identical amendments Nos 77 and 120, they aim to clarify that the beneficiaries of the AAH2 will be the subject of an information procedure on their potential eligibility for complementary health care and of support by the sickness insurance funds for their efforts to open or renew rights. During the first reading of the text, as at its new reading, both in committee and in public sitting, I have demonstrated, by reading the corresponding legislative provisions, that this is the case. The amendments are fully satisfied, even if you are not convinced, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u162	Neither is the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u163	I would like to understand why you want to mention in Article 32 an article of the Social Security Code which is already included in it. It's written black and white. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u165	In addition to what the rapporteur-general has just said, I would point out that the amendments are satisfactory. All beneficiaries of the AAH – AAH1 and AAH2 – are subject to such an approach. I suggest that the amendments be withdrawn and, failing that, give an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u166	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u167	For once, the Senate has the same interpretation of the text as ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u168	No! We sent senators the same emails we sent you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u169	This is not a sign of distrust on our part. Neither the Senate nor we read in the text what you are able to read. The amendments are merely drafting. In short, it is simply a question of adding " -2". So we will be reassured. If you believe that the amendment is satisfactory, you can accept it. In doing so, you will allow us to sleep on both our ears, which you can rejoice at tomorrow – well rested, we may be a little quieter than usual. Accepting the amendment does not cost you much. And if he's satisfied, it's better twice than one! So everyone will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u170	Amendment No 121 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u171	Amendment No 113 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u172	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u173	Adopted by our colleagues in the Senate, it aims to ensure that the specificities of the overseas territories are taken into account in terms of access to care and accommodation for pregnant women furthest from maternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u175	The amendment provides that the decree laying down the modalities of the "Housing" component of the "Maternity Commitment" measure specifies the specificities of the overseas territories governed by Articles 73 and 74 of the Constitution. He was largely satisfied with the current wording of article 37. Indeed, the impact assessment makes it very clear that its provisions apply to the overseas departments as well as to Saint-Martin, Saint-Barthélemy and La Réunion. The last paragraph explicitly allows its application to Mayotte. However, it cannot apply to all local and regional authorities governed by article 74 of the Constitution, in particular Wallis and Futuna, which retains its autonomy in the field of social security. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn, to which the committee has given an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u177	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u178	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u179	I would like to go back to Amendment No 113. Earlier, we talked about mountain areas. There are specific territories, located overseas or in the mountains, for which it is appropriate to reason in terms of travel time. Mr rapporteur-general, you yourself have admitted that the distance to find a hospital does not have any intrinsic significance. It's travel time that counts. Through this amendment, we wanted to ensure that it was actually taken into account. Access to an appropriate obstetric gynaecology unit can be made difficult due to local circumstances, including the climatic and geographical situation, which must be taken into account. We wanted to introduce this clarification, which we believe is useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u180	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u181	It has also been adopted by the Senate, and is intended to link the overall care path after cancer treatment with the care protocol to be developed by the treating physician for persons with long-term illness who are affected by a work interruption or continuous care under article L. 324-1 of the Social Security Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u183	I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn. The post-care path of cancer treatment is not intended primarily for the professional reclassification of patients who are cured or in remission. It aims to improve their quality of life through support in nutrition, physical activity and psychological conditions. Dear colleague, you are right to refer to the professional reintegration of patients cured – or in the course of healing – of cancer or chronic disease. This is a key issue. However, Article 40 of the text deals with its health dimension. Your amendment takes us to another field. There are other mechanisms and ways to do things better. That is why I would suggest that the amendment be withdrawn and, failing that, give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u185	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u186	Do you maintain the amendment, Mr Christophe?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u187	I'm withdrawing it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u188	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u189	To deprive anyone – especially minors – of the opportunity to be examined by a doctor before the practice of a sport is questionable. It is true that the process of mandatory consultations has recently been strengthened. However, in a recent report, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council expressed doubts about the reality of monitoring children. This amendment, adopted by the Senate, applies only to these amendments. The link between the medical examination to obtain a certificate of fitness for sport and the necessary preventive consultations should be improved. The amendment provides that the consultation requested to obtain a medical certificate of non-contraindication to sports practice, prior to obtaining a licence or participation in a sporting competition, shall, where appropriate, be subject to one of the mandatory preventive consultations provided for in the children's health prevention route.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u190	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u191	This is an editorial amendment to clarify that the division of the daily parental attendance allowance also applies to civil servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u192	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u193	It has been the subject of cross-party support in the Senate and is intended to rewrite Article 46 in order to include in it the provisions of the bill establishing a fund for the compensation of the victims of plant protection products, which allow the full compensation of the damage suffered by persons suffering from diseases caused by the use of plant protection products, through the creation of a compensation fund abounded by their manufacturers. The amendment includes compensation for children infected in utero. It also provides for State participation in the financing of the fund. As we observed in the first and second readings, together with the victims' associations, the mechanism proposed by the Government is not up to date. The aim here is to propose a comprehensive system in a single presentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u194	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 56 and 111. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u195	I associate my colleagues and friends Emmanuelle Anthoine, Gilles Lurton and Charles de la Verpillarie, as eager as I am for him to be adopted. If we share the objective of Article 49, which aims to improve the information of families on the availability of childcare facilities, we are concerned about the sanctions that can be implemented if the information on the availability of childcare facilities is not published on the CNAF website. Given the status and remuneration of these early childhood professionals, such sanctions seem to us to be totally disproportionate. We therefore call for the withdrawal of the relevant provisions. Communication of the availability of maternal assistants should be an option rather than an obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u196	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u197	It is identical to the previous one, well defended by Mr Cinieri.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u199	Mr Cinieri, we had this debate last week, in public session and in committee, after having had it in the first reading of the text. As Mr. Lurton pointed out on that occasion, there are times when we can change our minds, and there can be consensus debates. It seems to me that we reached a good form of consensus last week: among the sanctions that could hit the kindergarten assistants, we have removed the possibility of depriving them of their agreement, in order to adapt the level of sanction to the level of requirement. It seems to me that we have achieved a good balance. I therefore suggest that the amendments should be withdrawn and that, in the absence of them, I have little hope that they will be withdrawn, an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u201	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u202	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u203	Mr General, I believe that you have not understood the purpose of this amendment well! It is not a question of weakening the penalties for maternal assistants who do not register their availabilities on the online platform, but of turning this obligation into a possibility. You are, like me, in the field; You can see that, in most municipalities, there are relays to make availability known, and that families have access to information. Why impose an obligation when everything is amicable? Let's stick to a possibility and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u204	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u205	I see kindergarten assistants in the field, indeed, but also parents – future parents, or parents who already have children, and who are in trouble! They don't know what guard solutions are open to them: in cities as well as in rural or semi-rural territories, it's complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u206	Trust the communes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u207	Today, they do not have access to all the availabilities of crèches and kindergarten assistants. Yes, every time you create a new service, every time you want to improve the information of the public, especially for the care of children, you create a new obligation. Today, the system does not exist and it must be recognized that the system is working badly enough. The provisions of Article 49 are simple. It is not intended first of all to sanction: in the law, any obligation must be accompanied by a sanction, otherwise there is no longer any obligation; However, the sanctions envisaged have already been largely revised downwards. That was entirely legitimate, and I agreed with the Members, in particular with your group, who argued in this respect. But removing the obligation to declare vacant places on the Internet means depriving tens or even hundreds of thousands of families of easy access to information on guard solutions, while they are in the panade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u208	I have two identical amendments, Nos 102 and 110. I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u209	The aim of this amendment is to reverse the underindexing of retirement pensions and social benefits. You plan to save €800 million by this measure – there will be €600 million less for pensioners and €200 million less for family benefits and family allowances. However, INSEE has just published a study showing that the Gini index, which measures inequalities, had not been so high in France since the 1970s! The same study shows that the poverty rate would rise from 14.1% to 14.7% of the population, a rate that France had not experienced for years. This would represent an additional 400,000 people in a situation of income poverty in 2018 compared to 2017. [[The rapporteur-general protested]] The setbacks in family allowances, housing subsidies and pensions have greatly affected the fight against poverty and inequality. You'll find in the pockets of pensioners and the most modest the money you distribute to those who didn't need it! You make the poor pay for your gifts to the richest. Yes, that's the truth! These broads, like the flat tax, have not been used for anything, all the reports prove it. You help the rich at the expense of the poor, and it is unspeakable: I say it again, I affirm it and I maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u210	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 110.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u211	This amendment, adopted by the Senate, provides for the abolition of the undervaluation of social benefits in relation to real inflation. Apart from pensions of less than €2000, family allowances and retirement pensions will only be increased by 0.3% next year, i.e. below inflation, which is expected to be 1% in 2020. However, according to a general principle enshrined in the Social Security Code, the revalorisation of social benefits is indexed to inflation, in order to avoid a loss of purchasing power of the beneficiaries of social benefits. While the Government claims to defend purchasing power in this bill to finance social security for 2020, this article demonstrates the opposite by attacking the benefits of households, including those suffering from occupational diseases. We therefore call for the deletion of Article 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u213	Unfavorable opinion, for the reasons given at length in previous readings. Mr Aviragnet, either socialism has evolved enormously, or there is something that I do not understand: you accuse us of making the pockets of the most modest French people, while we under-index, at 0.3%, the 20% of the highest retirement pensions! Explain to me: Are the 20 per cent of the wealthiest retirees among the poorest? The latter, who are traditionally part of the socialist electorate, certainly do not understand what you are saying there. [[Ms. Fiona Lazaar applauds]] There is a revalorisation of benefits and pensions, for those who receive less than 2000 euros for a single person; those who receive more will be under-indexed for one year. What you say, I really believe, is excessive – and even false.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u215	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u216	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u217	I'm not taking anything from what I said. You are forgetting other social benefits, Mr. Rapporteur-General! As for the vote of each other, I am sure that the rich will vote for you – and for good reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u218	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u219	We defended this amendment first, then again; We are delighted that it was adopted by the Senate. Today, persons with at least three dependent children receive, from the thirty-first day of sick leave, a daily allowance equivalent to two thirds of their reference salary, instead of 50 per cent. Our amendment seeks to maintain this right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u220	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 78 and 108. I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u221	We have already said a lot: given the state of the public hospital, the measures you are taking will have to be visible to everyone. The ONDAM must really be up to it, one way or another. We'll have to find funding. Today, it is largely insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u222	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 108.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u223	The Senate's removal of section 59, which sets the ONDAM for 2020, is a strong move! It has been two and a half years since I sounded the alarm about the working conditions of hospital staff, and beyond all those working in health facilities. You have seen the success of the mobilization on 14 November; There'll be another one on December 17. The services are all on strike – but it doesn't feel like it, since everyone is being requisitioned. If you're suffering and you're going to the hospital, we'll still take care of you... But it is very difficult for hospital staff to be offered a contingency plan that does not meet their expectations! In Île-de-France, for lack of space, twenty-six infants had to be transferred to other regions, more than 100 kilometres from their parents: it's big anything! We're not even surprised to get the most crazy information. Staff suffer, patients suffer, families suffer, everyone suffers and nothing is done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u224	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u225	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u227	On the contrary, it is very important, I believe, that this rising ONDAM be voted on. In addition to this increase in ONDAM, we have made numerous announcements: 150 million more, for three consecutive years, 2020, 2021 and 2022, will be devoted to reinvestment in the daily lives of caregivers; To this, we must add the 750 million released this summer to address the issue of emergencies, and a debt recovery of EUR 10 billion over three years. This rising ONDAM is therefore part of a set of measures, many of which concern investment: it is very important to rekindle the desire of caregivers to practice in the public hospital. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With regard to the transfer of children out of the Paris region that you are referring to, I have learned it as you do; I therefore convened a meeting this morning at the ministry, with all the hospitals concerned, to understand the origin of the malfunctions, and the reason why the difficulties had not been anticipated. I met with the teams, and an assessment will obviously be made; This must not happen again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u228	We have concluded our consideration of the amendments. I remind you that the Conference of Presidents decided that the public vote on the bill would take place tomorrow, after questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-02-O1089.u229	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Vote by public vote on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020; Motion for a resolution to combat anti-Semitism; Proposal for a law on several articles of the Act on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and on healthy, safe and sustainable food. The meeting is adjourned.
