ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice (No. 1684) and of the draft organic law on strengthening the organisation of courts (No. 1685). We come to the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u2	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u3	In the light of this last act of the discussion of the bill on programming and reform for justice, after two readings by each of the two chambers, we must note that the debates are not closed. But, in reality, will they ever be? Our justice needs means, but also a profound transformation, and we also need to review how we make the law. This text is a deplorable example. For almost a year now, on a motion to reject the motion for referral to committee, for each reading, of amendments tabled, discussed, rejected and then tabled again in discussions broken down by statutory interruptions, the conditions of our parliamentary work have been flawed. Some of us are still blaming ourselves for trying to rationalize and dejudicate under the guise of introducing a policy of austerity. No, we're telling you again, with this bill, we're pursuing objectives that are far less anxious than the ones you want to lend us. This time again, with more than 170 amendments and four motions, you continue to feed the concerns of the actors in the justice system, notwithstanding all the guarantees contained in the draft and the strong commitments made by the guardian of the seals before this House. But, since you hear without listening, since the scarecrow that you are acting to exacerbate tensions is that of a hidden plan to remove jurisdictions, we will again explain to you that this project does not define the contours of a new judicial card. The project administratively merges the courts of first instance with the courts of first instance, which become the courts of first instance, so that the litigants have a single door of entry. The bill does not shut down the courts. On the contrary, he sets up a local judge and provides every litigant with the guarantee that he will be able to bring his day-to-day litigation before a judge. Specialization will not be a start to the disappearance of our judges. The bill does not remove any jurisdiction from the court, the departmental specializations will be carried out by the chiefs of the court of appeal after consultation with the councils of jurisdiction. As a matter of responsibility, let us cease to be afraid. It is because means and transformation are the alpha and omega of justice that works better, that this project is not just a programming text. It provides for new provisions in all areas: budget, means, procedures, organization, but also dematerialization, the scale of sentences and prison. This reform also takes on its responsibilities in view of the need for speed and simplicity demanded by our fellow citizens while guaranteeing the rights of litigants and providing them with easier access. By expanding the use of amicable settlement, in particular the revision of divorce proceedings, the reform chooses to prioritize consensus before the trial. Above all, this reform gives people access to justice. The reform does not mean the citizen. On the contrary, it offers justice and its actors the means to adapt to the needs of society that it must protect. Thanks to the online complaint, in addition to traditional means, the reform offers a new, more intimate and confidential remedy to all these victims, who are still reluctant to take the difficult first step of the revelation of the facts. The bill still includes all the guarantees of respect for and protection of individual freedoms so that the fantasy, advanced up to this House, of a judicious and non-human justice where everything would be dealt with by algorithms: insurance of reception desks in each place of justice, guarantee of the maintenance of remedies through traditional means, intervention of the magistrate in case of failure of the attempt to settle amicable, competence of the judge in the most complex cases of review of alimony. With this reform, which is not displeased by some, justice will continue to be done tomorrow by judges. The reform allows it to be done more simply, faster and more clearly, and guarantees access to the judge for every individual. Finally, at the criminal level, this reform does not make any concessions to firmness in the face of crime or crime. It places reintegration and prevention of recidivism at the heart of the sanction, thus opening up a relevant field of alternative solutions in the case of short sentences where the prison is often counterproductive. The experiment of the criminal court is a pragmatic response to the problem of the delay of recognition and reparation for the victims, or to the congestion of the assize courts. A criminal court to try crimes as crimes will change the practice of correction, which may sometimes be akin to a real denial of justice. Throughout these debates, Parliament has contributed to enriching the accountability of this bill, which holds its commitment, with three key objectives: effectiveness, accessibility and security. Madam Keeper of the Seals, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the move, I wanted to welcome a new one and, I hope, one last time, the tenacity, calmness and professionalism with which you have carried this bill that is so fundamental to our justice of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u4	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u5	For the last time, we have to take a decision on a reform project that seriously undermines the public service of justice. Lawyers, magistrates, clerks, academics, legal professionals, associations for the defence of litigants have been alerting you for many months to the dangers of this reform that has not been built with them. You ignored these warnings as you ignored ours during the review of the text. You have once again acted alone and chosen the passage into force, scorning the intermediate bodies. Under the guise of modernization and simplification, your project offers us a disembodied and far from justiciable justice. It aims to limit the costs to stay in the middle of budgetary orthodoxy, which is absolutely not up to the challenges faced by the state of disrepair of the public service of justice: vacancy of posts, lack of magistrates, staff and endemic prison overcrowding. The reform envisages restricting the scope of the judge's intervention by dejudicating mass litigation, popular litigation. To compensate for the lack of staff essential to mediation and conciliation activities, you develop alternative ways of online settlement and dedicate yourself to the opening of a dispute settlement market. But dematerialization does not allow for proximity justice or simpler justice, but aggravates inequalities. This will result in poor justice for the poor and poor justice for the people. With regard to the criminal aspect of the reform, we regret that the bill is a continuation of the criminal reforms of recent years that progressively restrict the right of access to a judge in correctional and contraventional proceedings. The powers of the public prosecutor's office in the proceedings are increased, while the current situation shows us more than ever the drifts made possible by the lack of independence of the public prosecutor's office in France, by the hierarchical link that remains between the public prosecutor's office and the executive. Indeed, in what great democracy could one see a press organ searched on instructions from the Prime Minister's office? In addition, you have announced your willingness to reform the 1945 Order without parliamentary debate, by means of an order. That is extremely worrying. Indeed, many fear that your project for delinquent childhood is to judge more quickly by considering children as miniature adults when the 1945 ordinance sees them as becoming adults. Finally, after promising that the judicial map would not be changed, you are reforming the judicial organization of the first instance by bringing together the court of main instance and the courts of instance under its jurisdiction in a new unified court. This reorganisation of the territorial and material powers of the courts represents a development which will not be without negative effect on the litigants. Your system does not take into account the need to match the distribution of courts with the needs of the population. Already scandalous situations such as the Seine-Saint-Denis are likely to worsen and multiply in France. Our disagreements are numerous and our concerns are great, as much as the justiciable may suffer from this text, especially the most modest or those who live in the wrong place. That is why, together with all the justice professionals, we will vigorously oppose this reform until the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u6	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u7	Finally, we have come to the end of the legislative process for this important text, which should enable us to undertake the reforms necessary for justice. By substantially modifying the text adopted by the National Assembly as a new reading, the Senate wished to show its disagreement – including action. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement believes that this modernization, which we are doing, is necessary. Justice is at the heart of our social and democratic contract, but it faces many difficulties, largely due to a lack of funding. This bill proposes to maintain a budget increase of 24% over the period 2018-2022. The Senate wanted to increase this budget; The intention is commendable, but we must be responsible and coherent. The budget proposed by the Government is more so. In addition to this increase in resources, there is an important modernization of the functioning of our judicial system. By making justice more readable and faster, this bill aims to bring citizens closer to this institution and make it both more understandable and more accessible. This reform is also designed for other actors in the judicial chain: by allowing judges to refocus their offices, by developing alternative dispute resolution methods, by simplifying procedures and by speeding up the use of dematerialization, it offers as many new ways of optimizing the work of everyone. As far as the criminal aspect is concerned, this bill is a source of innovation. The new scale of criminal sanctions, the increased use of public service work, the introduction of an autonomous home detention penalty should allow for the introduction of genuine individualised sanctions, alternatives to prison where appropriate. In short, these provisions constitute a major step forward in the individualization of sentences. With respect to the territorial aspect of this bill, we have heard the concerns it raises in the territories. But the MODEM Group wants to reassure our fellow citizens. The merger of the courts of first instance with the courts of first instance and the possibility of specialisation of certain courts of first instance offer an opportunity to simplify the judicial path of the accused, while at the same time being a guarantee of efficiency for our courts. This bill provides the necessary guarantees. No place of justice will be closed and territorial networking will be ensured. The MODEM Group is pleased with the text from the new reading: it was really enriched on this occasion and we particularly welcome some of the progress we have made. The first dealt with the revision of the amount of the contribution to the maintenance and education of children by the Director of the Family Allowance Fund – CAF. It is now well framed: only the judge has discretion, and it is always he who will intervene in complex situations. The experimental nature of this provision is, in our view, particularly interesting: if this device improves processing times in most simple cases, it will be good to maintain it; otherwise, it will always be possible not to act on it. On the other hand, we welcome the continuation of the current scope of the criminal composition. The use of this procedure, which would have been useful in reducing congestion in the courts, would have been problematic if it had been possible for offences punishable by more than five years' imprisonment, such as drug trafficking in organized gangs or the association of criminals. These are for us two major advances in the discussion on new reading, which, together with other improvements made by different political groups, make this bill a balanced text, useful for our justice and for our fellow citizens. For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u8	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u9	I was just thinking, listening to the various speakers, that if the majority were making so much effort to anticipate and respond to criticism, it was that she was sensitive to various arguments that had been presented to her in the province. I also thought that it would be unfair to make a statement here against your action. I am fortunate to belong to the old world, and to consider my mandate to be exercised first on the ground. I remember the magistrates of Bayonne who asked me to come a few years ago and explained to me that they did not have enough money to pay for the work they had done, and that they were afraid there would be a seizure in court. This followed an arrest by the magistrates of Pau, who told me that they had not been able to pay their EDF bill. No one can complain to you, Madam Minister, about the difficulties facing justice and the different jurisdictions. Jean-Jacques Urvoas, in his time, had already spoken of it with great courage. The text before us today was intended, among other things, to respond to these difficulties. Did the appointment take place? Have you achieved your goals? This is not the feeling of the Socialist group. You have run after the mode of digitisation of our society, this vision promoted by the majority, which considers everything to be on the internet and which multiplies the platforms. I am confident that this text will have to be amended in the coming years, as you will have refused to hear your arguments on the certification of these platforms. You have, moreover, opened the door to a subsequent modification. It will not be done under your authority, you will see to it, and you have made enough commitments to reassure us. But it is now possible that, tomorrow, a change in the judicial map will take place, because arrangements will have been made to merge the courts of general jurisdiction and the courts of procedure, and because you will have changed, at the headquarters of several courts, the organization of the courts of siege that we know today. You have also decided to give the CAF responsibilities that it does not ask for. During our work, I had allowed myself to tell you not to do it in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques: we had the chance, in our department, to have two CAFs, but they have just merged. Other departments would be more appropriate to experiment with this new responsibility entrusted to the Director of CAF. You, Madam Minister, made a rather brutal choice about the 1945 Order. Several jurists regretted that Parliament had not fully exercised its responsibility: it should have started with a review of the situation of young minors already confronted with the judicial institution, before coming to a diagnosis and perspectives that could have been shared. You have made the choice, by an amendment adopted on the saviour, to reserve the task of reforming by order the 1945 one. So there are a few provisions in this text, Madam Minister, that we will endorse – we have voted on them, and we will vote on them again, today or tomorrow. But, for the rest, we wish to express our regret that this moment does not meet the strong expectations of our fellow citizens for a reform of a public service to which they are and remain committed. Last Saturday, in a commune in my constituency, I attended a debate to which the mayor invited me. There wasn't a lot of people, by the way. When dealing with justice, various stakeholders gave examples that concerned them – it was quite normal, at this point in the discussion, for them to talk about their own situation: they all expect things to change, they all want a change in the public service of justice. I hope I am wrong, but my feeling, like that of the Socialist Members, is that this text will not meet the expectations that have been expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u10	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u11	At a time when we are approaching the final reading of this text, we are almost at the same point as in our first discussions. You have proposed to us, Madam Minister, a reform in all areas of the judicial institution – means, procedures, organisation, prisons, among others. But what seemed, at first glance, to be a good thing seems ultimately harmful, because you submit to us in the end a text that is not clear, and above all undermined by uncertainty. The justice of our country cannot be exposed to such pitfalls. The solutions that you propose will, it seems, sometimes only worsen the existing difficulties, if they do not create new ones. With regard to mergers of courts, the referral to the courts may be clearer for the litigant, but this facility will de facto be cancelled when it takes several hours to reach a court. Digital technology, often referred to, will certainly facilitate a few tasks, but developing it at this point, without having previously equipped the courts, trained staff or reduced the digital divide, will ultimately be the cause of many of our citizens' difficulties, especially for those already far from our justice system. Promoting amicable conflict settlements is a good thing to ease social relations. However, doing so without recruiting conciliators, but using private organizations and platforms will have a result that is exactly contrary to the objective you are aiming for. Your new scale of penalties, perhaps more legible, will only create counterproductive threshold effects. Similarly, you are planning the revision of maintenance payments by the already engulfed family allowance funds, whose means are in decline. That is why the UDI-Agir and Independents Group had proposed amendments, in particular to increase the budget for justice. I recognize, of course, the Government's effort to increase this budget considerably, but it is not up to the needs of our judicial institution. Other amendments from my group proposed to regulate the merger of courts of first instance and higher instance, and to allow for a scale of penalties corresponding to your objectives, while avoiding perverse effects, and limiting the interference of private bodies in our law. They were all rejected. I regret the Government's lack of openness to the proposals made by minority groups, the aim of which was to improve the text and make it acceptable to as many people as possible. You think you're simplifying the judge's task, but you're going to create new litigation. You think you're bringing justice closer to the citizens, while you're going to keep it away from it a little bit more. It is not that your ideas are bad, but most are not sufficiently prepared, concerted or framed. The almost unanimous shielding of your bill, well beyond the debates that have taken place over the past year, is proof that it presents great difficulties. These protests are heard on every bench – it's no coincidence – and in every legal profession – it's no coincidence either. It is not out of a pure spirit of contradiction that these oppositions are expressed. And in all this rush to have texts voted whose concrete impact is never really studied, you have forgotten the essential attributes of justice. It is a sovereign power of the State, it is a public service. You forgot why the judge is being used, you forgot what a proximity dispute is. True to your elements of language – simplification, modernization, efficiency, speed – you seem to have only a weak awareness of the consequences that this project will have in reality on the daily lives of everyone, justiciable or professional of the law. The paradigm changes you propose would have deserved more precise and anticipated attention; Above all, they would have deserved to take the time for such a far-reaching reform. Perhaps, moreover, it would have been necessary to proceed in two stages: first, to increase the means of justice in order to eliminate vacancies and recruit the new staff needed, while equipping the courts with the necessary digital tools; Then, in a second stage, consider what organizational and skill changes were useful and necessary. Justice needed to be given the opportunity to stem its chronic degradation, so that it could modernize and better meet the expectations of the litigants. As such, support for access to the law and networks of justice houses will certainly need to be further developed throughout the country, as support for citizens will have to be commensurate with the changes brought about by the reform. However, I fear that this effort to gain access to the law will, in turn, add to the burden on local and regional authorities. As you will have understood, the UDI-Agir and Independents Group remains very sceptical about this text, and remains very disappointed at the way in which our discussions took place on such a fundamental subject as justice. Therefore, we will not support this reform, and will remain very attentive and vigilant about its follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u12	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u13	Much has already been said about this bill. We have defended a republican vision of justice and proposed amendments to that effect. Rejected, as usual. It's too late to change your mind, minister. But it'll never be too late to tell you what you're the name for. You are, Madam Minister, the authoritarian face of the warring oligarchy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u14	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u15	With you, this is the permanent state of emergency. "Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Repeat by battling the demonstrators and locking up at arm's length. Marianne is neither a truncheon nor a magistrate in a hurry to put yellow vests in the shade. The Republic is nothing without its people. You may have to defend her, but you make her suffer by hitting the rising citizens. You are, Madam Minister, you and your government, the face of liberal authoritarianism. You forget your principles. As for us, we have principles. And if you think that democracy must be protected from the popular classes, we can't do anything for you. But we know that the time when you thought you could hurt people without them reacting is over. To ruin the living conditions of those who suffer without opposing resistance is over. We look forward to it. Since the beginning of this mandate, you have used judicial violence when the truncheon did not seem sufficient. When the minds are to be silenced, the judicial controls that hinder the freedom of citizens are useful to you. In Bure, activists who warn about the nuclear waste landfill project are being prosecuted for conspiracy. Evildoers, really? Do you realize what this means for democracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u16	What does it have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u17	You tolerate citizens only silent and passive. You love democracy only when it suits the interests you defend. Yellow vests demand redistribution of wealth and democracy? More than 5000 police officers have been in custody since the beginning of the movements, with dozens of immediate appearances leading to expeditious judgements, sometimes without lawyers for the defendants. Here's your answer. You said that at the beginning of December, in defiance of the independence of justice, which you so often invoke, "we must provide an extremely firm response." Do what you want, but don't pretend to be a democrat. The search of Mediapart followed by a few months the searches that struck France unsubmissive. Why search Mediapart while the journalists were ready to pass on all the recordings to the courts? Why mobilise an entire police service to carry out sixteen searches against unsuspected France, when we had responded to all requests for documents and answers? Environmental activists, yellow vests, journalists, political opponents: where will you stop? In all citizens who mobilize for the social cause, for the survival of our species, for our future, you see irreducible enemies. You reassure yourself that they are the ones who threaten democracy and that you must protect the Republic. In the meantime, you've let democracy slip between your fingers. You are, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, Madam Minister, the face of the bourgeoisie, which is losing its nerves. You thought you were defending an unchangeable order. You feel it trembling. You're scared. If you're hunting whistleblowers, activists, yellow vests, you're never going after tax fraudsters. Never has a government attacked civil liberties so much under the Fifth Republic. The only historical comparison that comes to mind is little Napoleon, Napoleon III.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u18	It is not "the little Napoleon", but "Napoléon le Petit"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u19	He too tried to muzzle the press that was not in command, and wherever he saw the threat of social or political opposition, he crushed it. You claim to have a republican spirit, while your mentality is imperial. Since 2017, your class hatred has fallen on the country. You don't want us to disagree with you. You are the face of the rich, who would rather change people when they can no longer control them. [[Ms. Danièle Obono, Mr. Pierre Dharréville and Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] This face is not that of our Republic. In France, it is not the king who changes people, it is the people who overthrow the king, the unstoppable and proud people of his freedom, the people who rise up, weary of being crushed. This is the real face of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u20	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u21	I regret, Madam Minister, to intervene a second time, replacing Philippe Gosselin, who was unable to arrive in time. Allow me to point out that, if I do not share your policy, I have the greatest respect for the person and political woman you are. So don't misunderstand my criticisms, which are nothing personal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u22	He announces the color!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u23	For decades, French justice has been underfunded: courts have been engorged and prisons have been overcrowded. Business processing time has become too long, too long. After the conciliation phase within the framework of the justice projects, the chancellery has drawn up under your authority the texts which we are considering today at last reading. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to stress some of their aspects, including the first of them, the financial resources devoted to justice. Yes, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I note that your budget will increase by EUR 1.6 billion by 2022 under a programming law. However, this increase will not fill the backlog for so many years. This effort is not commensurate with the needs and challenges. In its great wisdom, the Senate has demonstrated this to you. I would remind you that France is the country whose justice budget is, per capita, one of the weakest in the European Union. As far as prison services are concerned, there is so much to be said about prison overcrowding, the scourge of which persists! It seriously affects the conditions for the reintegration of prisoners and affects the working conditions of prison staff. You know that Republicans are committed to incarceration because of its preventive nature vis-à-vis those who commit offences. While candidate Macron had committed himself to the creation of 15,000 prison places during the quinquennium, the text foresees only 7,000 by 2022. Again, this objective seems to be beyond reach, due to incompressible administrative constraints. With regard to the reorganization of the civil justice system, the draft law provides for the administrative merger of the courts of procedure and of the courts of main instance, in order to create departmental courts of justice. Of course, you have repeatedly reiterated that this merger will not result in the closure of courts. However, on the one hand, we are afraid that many small litigations will go into the trap, drowned in the new court, and, on the other hand, that this merger will only be a first step, the next being the elimination in whole or in part of the 300 local courts. You said and repeated that this was not your intention: we believe in your good faith. However, minister, open your eyes: there is, on this subject, as I pointed out at first reading, a determinism that escapes all of you as well. With regard to civil procedure, we have a number of comments to make. Due to digitisation, referrals will be made on-line. This will be the end of the normal access of the litigant to his judge. We are not alone in seeing this as a form of dehumanization of justice. Our group is also surprised at the privatisation of justice in the area of pre-mediation: private companies will intervene at this stage. We are not sure that the most fragile of the litigants will be defended fairly: private companies are not justice, Madam Keeper of the Seals. Article 4 of the ordinary law extends the scope of litigation for which representation by a lawyer is mandatory: this is a bad consequence of the merger of IT and IMT. As far as criminal procedure is concerned, we are in favour of measures to promote the work of investigators, namely simplification measures, which, for lack of time, I will not mention in detail. We also support the establishment of the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, which was not included in the original text. In previous readings, we have proposed amendments, which have been rejected, on the extension of the scope of application of the flat-rate fine, on the reservation to the court to decide whether or not there will be a penalty of accommodation or on the automatic nature of the conditional release to two thirds of the sentence. In the particular case of crimes and offences against persons, the digitization of criminal proceedings seems inappropriate, even if the resort to the filing of a traditional complaint is maintained. We believe that the various simplifications in civil and criminal matters are in the right direction. On the other hand, the budget does not meet the objectives or challenges. The objective of creating 7,000 places by 2022 is very insufficient and inaccessible. The merger of IT and IMTs and the digitization of procedures keep citizens away from human justice. Finally, the dematerialization of complaints is inadequate in criminal matters for a large number of crimes and offences. Therefore, I regret to tell you that the Republicans will vote against these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u24	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u25	As the Constitution provides, the final word on the text of the reform of the justice system is left to the National Assembly, since the two chambers have failed to reach agreement on the vote on a joint text. This is understandable: the future of justice is not without many questions. You seem to be stepping up the centralisation of our legal organisation, which is particularly worrying for the Libertés et Territoires group, for which proximity is essential, because it is synonymous with efficiency. Moreover, throughout the review of this reform, the various actors in the territories, whether they are legal professionals, local elected representatives, associations or citizens, have expressed their concerns. The Libertés et Territoires Group has had the opportunity to tell you on several occasions, Madam Minister: your text does not appear to be sufficiently balanced and we fear that it will have negative consequences for the individual, whether it is access to the judge, the protection of the most vulnerable, the protection of the freedoms and rights of defence or the maintenance of local justice. Throughout our discussions, we have waited for your actions to show your willingness to build, together with national representation as a whole, justice that is respectful of each other and respectful of the territories. Unfortunately, Madam Minister, you are defending a vision of the reorganization of our justice that we believe is wrong. Yet we are convinced that you will agree with us on this point: justice needs fair reforms. That is why, for those elected who are rooted in the territories of our group, your refusal to hear the unanimous protest today against the reform as you see it, leaves us puzzled. We ask you again, Madam Minister, not to interfere with access to justice, not to orchestrate the disappearance of our local justice system and not to weaken the rights of the defence. Explaining a few years ago that when our rights are directly threatened, "the normal reflex is to seek a judge," Guy Carcassonne asked the question: "Is not the very existence of the law and the courts responsible for its application the first of the rights of the defence? The first of the rights of the defence, the minister, seems to have been mistreated today. By refusing the various amendments of our group, you open the door to a new stage in the removal of the judge, a judge who will find it difficult to find: he will first of all have to determine whether his case falls within the scope of a specialized dispute dealt with by a court of general jurisdiction in his department, or another department. Given the specialisation of some trials and appeals, the litigants will be likely to travel long or even very long distances. For the Libertés et Territoires group, there is a real risk of widening the territorial divide. Your programming law is likely to shift from human justice to virtual justice, which also violates the rights of the defence, as your refusal to include in the law a requirement for mandatory certification by the Ministry of Justice of online services for amicable resolution of disputes and assistance in bringing cases before the courts. Another example is the inadequate supervision of the use of online complaints. Our group is also concerned about the imbalance between the effectiveness of investigations and the guarantee of rights and freedoms in criminal matters, for example by rejecting the obligation to present to the prosecutor, in the event of an extension of police custody, a presentation which nevertheless guarantees the judicial authority's control over the activities of the investigative services. Your will to reform juvenile justice by ordinance cannot gain our approval. As for the establishment of a national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, it has not only not been sufficiently discussed, but it does not seem to us to have to improve the fight against terrorism or the functioning of justice. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this text departs from the idea that the Libertés et Territoires Group is making of the organisation of our justice. It would have been possible to agree on a text closer to territorial specificities and better adapted to the challenges of justice tomorrow. That is why our group, in the vast majority, will not associate itself with this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u26	The joint general discussion is closed. The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u27	I will gladly repeat Mr Terlier's words: "Let's stop scaring us. Let us cease to be afraid when we invoke budgetary shortcomings. Of course, there's never enough money for justice. However, the increase in budgetary resources, which was very important, reflected the Government's will. Mr Masson, I went to Toulon on Friday morning, not to say nice words, but to announce an investment of at least 60 million euros in the courthouse: this is the realization of the action that we can take. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr Peu, you have pointed out the difficult situation in which the Tribunal of Bobigny is in: I remind you that in May twenty additional clerks will be appointed there, as well as four additional magistrates in relation to the allocation key. I do not mention all the other questions. You accompanied us, Julien Denormandie and I, who had come to deal with the issue of unworthy housing: no doubt you were able to see that, already, the singular situation that we had noted was the subject of a judicial follow-up. It is not the only one: it is one example among others. We must not be afraid, when there is no reason to denigrate the Government's policy. Some of you fear – we have discussed a lot – that the administrative merger of the courts of appeal and the courts of major jurisdiction will lead to the removal of justice from the citizen. That is the word you used, Mr.Brindeau, adding that the vote on these two laws was hasty. I find it difficult to accept this idea of haste, whereas, as I have already pointed out, we have been working on these texts for 18 months – a little less so in Parliament. However, it is a very long time, during which we have had the opportunity to discuss many times. I do not believe that there has been any haste, either in consultation or in parliamentary work. You fear a territorial break between the courts and the citizens, but where do you see that? What writing do you draw that from? None of this is correct; On the contrary, the bill will make it possible to revitalize all jurisdictions, including those closest to litigants such as local courts. I hear about the dehumanization of justice: again, we are far from reality. As for you, Mr. Castellani, you were concerned about the guarantee of freedoms. I believe that this bill will strike that balance between efficiency and the guarantee of freedoms. For all these reasons, we must stop being afraid. On the contrary, from now on, work together to build what this bill allows! I say it with great humility, this text is not a point of conclusion but a point of departure: it is now that things will begin. Let me give you a few examples. The first concerns the experiment, in some departments, of the review of the amount of maintenance payments by the CAF. It will be necessary to see what the advantages and modalities of implementing this experiment will be: it is this work that will allow us to extend it or to put an end to it, if necessary. The same applies to departmental criminal courts. We will have to work together to give a reality to this new jurisdiction and see if this experiment is, as I think, very positive. In addition, we will work together on the 1945 Order, referred to by Mr.Peu and Mr. Habib. I understand that the method may have been surprising, but I am committed to working with all the parliamentarians who will want to join this reflection in the construction phase. I have also begun some consultations with some of you, not to mention the professionals, who will obviously be consulted as well. I have also made a commitment to you that we in this House will have an in-depth discussion of the content of the order that I propose to ratify for all the time that will be necessary. I therefore call for a co-construction of this ordinance, even if the method is a little unusual, I recognise it. Similarly, we will work together on what Mr. Balanant called "innovations" in the area of sentencing policy. I assure you that I will devote all my energy to this, because it is essential that the law innovate in this area. Yes, the prison population must be reduced. Yes, we must find penalties that are truly effective,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u28	And applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u29	...which punish but allow for reintegration. That is what we must commit ourselves to. This will require collective work, in which the Chair of the Law Commission has already embarked. Finally, as Mr.Brindeau said, we will have to work on the issue of access to the law. This is a project that I committed to open in 2019. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In essence, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to respond to certain statements that I have found excessive – as you know, anything that is excessive is insignificant. Like you, Mr. Habib, I think we must meet strong expectations from our fellow citizens. You said, honourable Member, that this text would not satisfy these expectations, but that you hoped to make a mistake. Will I dare say that I hope you're wrong? Together, I would like us to succeed in meeting the expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u30	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill in the text voted by the National Assembly in new reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. I would remind you that the articles will not be put to the vote: no intervention on the articles is therefore possible. I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 37, 97, 139, 167 and 201. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u31	This amendment is intended to restore the budgetary trajectory of the "Justice" mission adopted by the Senate at first reading. It foresees an increase in appropriations of 33.8% between 2017 and 2022 and the creation of 13700 jobs, following the recommendations of the report of the fact-finding mission of the Senate Law Commission on justice reform published in April 2017. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] The Government's budgetary programming, adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, provides for an increase in appropriations of 23.5 per cent and the creation of 6500 jobs over the same period. This seems insufficient, even if it is almost the only thing you welcome. This increase, which has already been initiated by previous governments, remains below the appropriations needed to ensure that our judicial system has a budget that is at least the European average. And we are not even talking about the possibility of doing justice in decent conditions, for both the people and all professionals, and in line with our vision of the public service of justice. Your programming is clearly insufficient to ensure the necessary recovery. That is why we re-tabled this amendment adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u32	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u33	This amendment is intended to restore the budgetary trajectory of the "Justice" mission adopted by the Senate at first reading. It foresees an increase in appropriations of 33.8% between 2017 and 2022 and the creation of 13700 jobs, following the recommendations of the report of the fact-finding mission of the Senate Law Commission on justice reform published in April 2017. The Government's budgetary programming, adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, provides for an increase in appropriations of 23.5 per cent and the creation of 6500 jobs over the same period. That's good, but that's not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u34	Can do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u35	We therefore prefer to draw closer to the Senate's proposals, which the rapporteurs considered insufficient Government programming to ensure the budgetary reform of the courts and the prison administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u36	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u37	Same causes, same effects, same objectives. Madam Keeper of the Seals, we ask you to go back to more important figures. You yourself called us to stop scaring us. Then stop scaring us! Rest assured and welcome our amendment. I know the numbers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u38	I am sorry to interrupt, Mr Savignat, but it appears that you are not a signatory to Amendment No 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u39	Nice try, Mr. Savignat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u40	You may consider this an amendment by the Republican Group, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u41	No, Mr. Savignat. I give the floor to Mrs Virginie Duby-Muller to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u42	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u43	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u44	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u45	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 201.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u46	We want to re-establish the budgetary path set out in the Senate, which we believe is much more timely given the impoverishment of our justice. Today, we need more resources dedicated to the prison sector, so that the construction of a sufficient number of prison places will finally ensure the execution of sentences. We need more judges at the seat and the prosecutor's office – France has four times fewer prosecutors and twice fewer magistrates at the seat than the other countries of the European Union. The method of multi-annual programming is the right one, but unfortunately the effort you are proposing seems to us to be very insufficient in view of the seriousness of the situation and the challenges that we still have to face.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u47	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the committee's opinion on these five identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u48	We have already discussed at length the fiscal trajectory and its balance. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u49	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u50	The budget path we are proposing is ambitious. I will not take up the various points which lead me to describe it as follows: the construction of additional prison places, the construction of closed educational centres, the renovation of the courthouses, the recruitment of staff... In short, our trajectory is ambitious, but realistic – we are very committed to it as we take into account the global constraints of our public finances. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u51	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 38, 140 and 202. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u52	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u53	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u54	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you have just said that you are looking for a realistic increase in spending. It turns out that a fact-finding mission of the Senate's Law Commission has worked on the reorganization of justice and that this amendment, already adopted by the Senate at first reading, reflects the results of its work. The proposed programming is therefore really realistic, and I invite you to accept it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u55	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 202.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u56	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u57	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u58	The purpose of this amendment is to reinstate the text adopted by the Senate at first reading with respect to the evaluation of this Act. It provides for the submission of an annual report to Parliament on the implementation of this Act prior to the budgetary policy debate for the duration of the programming period. By definition, such a report must encompass all the provisions of the law which it evaluates the implementation of: it therefore does not seem appropriate to further clarify its content or to add other requests for reports to the Government, as the text adopted by the National Assembly at first reading does.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u59	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u60	Your approach is to re-establish rule 1 ter as it is drafted by the Senate. On this article, however, we have adopted transpartite amendments, ranging from the Republican Group to the Unsolicited France Group. The drafting of the Senate, which you want to restore, removes all this work: so my opinion is highly unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I am told that there is a computer problem that prevents you from accessing the text of the amendment on your tablets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u62	[[Smile]] We know him by heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u63	We call for the return of the paper to the House, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u64	What is the Government's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u65	I share the rapporteur's arguments: we must not go back to this article, which reflects the wishes of many parliamentarians. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, pending the resolution of the computer problem, I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u67	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u68	The meeting was resumed. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u69	This is an amendment to coordinate with the deletion of section 12 of the bill in order to maintain the conciliation phase in the divorce proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u70	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 99 and 168. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u71	The purpose of this amendment is to reinstate the text adopted by the Senate at first reading by deleting the extension of the obligation to attempt to settle disputes amicably prior to referral to the judge, provided for in section 2 II of the bill. The mechanism put in place in the 21st Century Justice Modernization Act of 18 November 2016 is too recent to produce all its effects and has not yet been evaluated. What is the point of proposing an extension of this mechanism if it cannot be said with certainty that it has had a positive effect on the number of cases brought before the courts of first instance? Moreover, the number of 2,400 conciliators needed to absorb the 2016 reform, according to the government's estimates at the time, has still not been reached, since only 2,100 conciliators are currently in operation. However, according to the Government, while it is difficult to quantify the exact effects of the extension of the scheme, there is a significant increase in the activity of the conciliators: the increase in the posts provided for in the Programming Act will not be able to compensate for the increase in the number of disputes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u72	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 168.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u73	This amendment, which is perfectly defended by our colleague, aims to remove the extension of the scope of the obligation to attempt amicable settlement before referral to the judge. While it can be understood that recourse to amicable settlement is encouraged – this seems perfectly justified – making the use of these mechanisms compulsory before referral to a court is a completely different logic and risks increasing the cost of justice or prolonging proceedings. In either case, this could discourage litigants from asserting their rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u74	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u75	The 2016 device is indeed too recent but it is imperfect and incomplete. We cannot therefore maintain the status quo.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u76	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 39, 142, 169 and 296. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u77	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u78	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u79	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u80	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u81	In our interventions during the various readings, we have regularly indicated that you are making a monumental mistake by not engaging in the certification procedure. You tell us that you will do so tomorrow, or that the market itself will do the job of selecting the relevant platforms: those in this House who do not belong to the majority all agree, despite different conceptions of the market and trade, to the idea that the state should intervene in this certification procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u82	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 296.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u83	The purpose of this amendment is to make the certification of platforms offering online mediation, conciliation or arbitration services mandatory. With this amendment, it is primarily a matter of meeting an objective of general interest for the protection of litigants. Indeed, we must not leave to the market alone the regulation and quality control of the services provided by legaltech. I agree with many of my honourable senators that "Amicable resolution of disputes can be like a dismemberment of a prerogative of public authority to adjudicate disputes." This means that a precise and protective legal framework is indeed necessary. [[Ms. Sylvia Pinel applauds]] You have repeatedly indicated, Madam Minister, that you wish to retain the optional character of certification in order to "value virtuous operators. But you cannot assimilate the justiciable to a simple consumer doing his or her shopping, who chooses a particular platform for mediation, conciliation or arbitration. In this case there is a real need for legal certainty for the claimant to choose a claimant. You must absolutely protect those who are justiciable from operators who would not be virtuous. Making certification compulsory is a measure proportionate to the infringement that would be brought to the freedom to undertake. Protecting the defendant must be your priority, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u84	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u85	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u86	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u87	First of all, I would like to reply to Mr Habib that we are putting in place an optional certification because we believe that there is a double obstacle, one of a constitutional nature and the other of a material nature. I am not going into the details, but these are the two reasons why we do not introduce compulsory certification, which would be similar to a form of administrative authorisation. To MP Favennec Becot, I simply want to say that we must remember that all platforms will have to comply with the obligations contained in the law – confidentiality, data protection. These obligations, if not met, involve the responsibility of the platforms, which may be forced to do so. On the one hand, they all have rules to follow and, on the other hand, those who wish to do so may be certified by a State-accredited body.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u88	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u89	I would like to point out one thing: we were used to the impossibility of constitutional difficulties and then conventional difficulties. Today we discover a third category: material difficulty! Perhaps we have to explain this: where is the material difficulty? Without repeating the whole debate, which is still topical, I do not see in the name of which we should leave this option: it is not a question of consumers, but of those who are litigants, of our fellow citizens dealing with the public service of justice, which is not trivial, so much so. The platforms that would fail to incur their responsibility – that is the least of all, the liability for damage being provided for in the Civil Code – but in this very particular area, our fellow citizens would find themselves in great difficulty and should, in order to put this responsibility at stake, initiate other legal proceedings – and why not, therefore, resort to other legaltechs? I barely caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u90	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 143.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u91	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u92	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 11, 40, 144, 170, 222, 260 and 317. I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u93	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u94	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u95	At first reading, the Senate had chosen to limit the experiment envisaged by the Government with regard to the revision of maintenance by the bodies which had received family benefits, without passing to the judge, solely to the assumptions in which the parties agreed on the new amount of the pension. Taking into account the concerns expressed by all actors in the judiciary, and despite the guarantees given to the mechanism by the Senate, we propose to delete section 6. This is due to a mismatch of genders, which will affect both the work of the social welfare agencies and the justice that must be done in family disputes. This purely managerial logic ignores the realities and difficulties faced by litigants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u96	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u97	At first reading, the Senate had chosen to limit the experiment planned by the Government with regard to the revision of maintenance payments by the bodies which had received family benefits, such as CAF or MSA – Mutuality in agriculture – without passing before the judge, to the only assumptions in which the parties agreed on the new amount of the pension. Various concerns were expressed by all actors in the judiciary; Also, despite the safeguards provided by the Senate, this amendment proposes to delete clause 6, which is not in line with our vision of justice and, in particular, the award of maintenance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u98	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u99	Like my colleagues, I am opposed to Article 6, which is intended to entrust the family allowance funds with the task of fixing the amount of the contribution to the maintenance and education of minors. This would certainly reduce the burden on the courts, but it would also help to burden the family allowance funds, which are already struggling to maintain permanent residences for the public. This does not correspond to what our fellow citizens are entitled to expect from a good service of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u100	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 222.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u101	Madam Minister, we hope that the third time will be the right one! At first and second readings, we tried to convince you to delete Article 6. I even asked you to spare this experiment in my department of Meurthe-et-Moselle. I don't know if this call has been heard, but I'm renewing it today! I do this all the more because this revision by the FCA of maintenance payments has come very badly, for a fundamental reason: it is an infringement of the separation of powers since it would lead to a change in the content of a judgment. Above all, this would call into question the judge's place: in the event of a move or change in the family situation, an examination must be carried out not only on the basis of the application of a national scale by the FCA. Moreover, and this has been said on all benches, the CAF is experiencing difficulties in carrying out its missions in view of the means given to it. As we can already see with the bonus to be paid by the CAF, the CAF does not have the capacity to support new missions. You would therefore be misguided to continue in this direction: that is why we ask you to delete Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u102	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 260.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u103	This amendment actually seeks to delete Article 6. You had accused us at first reading of being suspicious of the funds of family allowances, although this obviously has nothing to do with suspicion: we are simply concerned to protect the interests of the weakest. Family allowance funds are private bodies which, although exercising a public service function, do not under any circumstances have the legitimacy or discretion of the judge in this matter. Of course, this transfer of jurisdiction will only concern the revision of maintenance payments; However, these revisions cannot be based solely on a scale, as my colleague Thibault Bazin pointed out. Your desire to save money is reflected in the abandonment of individuals and it is well known that these experiments are often used to impose decisions that are in fact already taken. We are told that all the conditions are in place to carry out such an experiment, but you have not taken the trouble of enriching the debate with forward-looking studies or setting deadlines. If we are currently talking about an average waiting period of six months for the revision of the amount of maintenance, the impact assessment does not in any way prove that this period would be reduced once this function has been assigned to the CAF, and because: it is absolutely not certain that the family allowance funds have the concrete capacity to provide a faster and simpler service. Why this will to "judice" when the intervention of a judge is more dissuasive? Given that almost 20% of maintenance payments are not paid on a regular basis or are not paid at all, I believe that the intervention of the judge is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u104	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u105	As we have always done in our discussions, we continue to oppose Article 6 and call for its deletion. For having worked a lot with the CAF in a previous life, I know their situation and the essential mission that is already theirs, and I know that you also know them. We can now ask ourselves how and with what means they will be able to carry out the tasks that you want to entrust to them. In our view, the status of CAFs does not guarantee them the necessary independence and impartiality, nor even the powers: the subjects dealt with are not the same. That is why we oppose this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u107	We have already had these debates in previous readings. I will therefore simply respond to the comments of some colleagues referring to the guarantees that would have been introduced by the Senate. As far as I know, it was the National Assembly that excluded complex cases from this mechanism; It was she who clarified that the Director of the FCA would not have discretion in these cases, and she also provided for the possibility of suspensive appeal to the Family Court under the supervision of the President of the TGI. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u109	It is also an unfavorable opinion. I will not repeat the whole demonstration that I have had the opportunity to expose you on many occasions. I simply recall that this is not a judicial decision, since the FCA is not a judge. It will take an administrative decision, in simple cases, with all the guarantees that you have introduced and which may, if necessary, be subject to judicial review. That is why we consider this experiment interesting. I would point out that there will be a possibility of appeal to a judge, that this remedy will be suspensive in certain cases, among other guarantees. We are already working with the CAF on how to implement this experiment and I think it will be interesting to check the relevance of this scheme in some departments. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u110	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u111	You provide us with interesting information, Madam Minister, by telling us that the Chancery services are already working on the implementation of this experiment. Would it be possible to enlighten the National Assembly by sending us the complete list of CAFs you work with? This seems important to us from the point of view of transparency, in addition to the possibility of calming the concerns expressed by some colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u112	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u113	We share the view of all those who have supported deletion amendments. How can it be argued that the Director of the FCA is being deprived of any discretion when he is the only one who can assess the complexity of the case before him? This is tantamount to granting him complete freedom of assessment in order to determine the degree of complexity he is incompetent to decide the application submitted to him and must divest himself. You go too fast, you do stupid things sometimes. Indeed, the text provides that, in this case, it will reject the application. In doing so, he will make a decision that will set aside the previous one. It would have been preferable to write that he declared himself incompetent in order to know about it in the light of the provisions of the text: this would have prevented us from many procrastinations. The question remains whether the director of a CAF has sufficient independence to render such a decision. All of this makes it clear that we can only vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u114	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u115	Mr Gosselin, we do not work with certain CAFs in certain departments: we are working with the Directorate of Social Security on how to implement the scheme. We have not yet chosen the funds that will be involved: we are waiting for the law to be passed by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u116	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 41, 145 and 225. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u117	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u118	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 145.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u119	This amendment opposes the abolition of the judge's intervention to approve changes in marital status in the presence of minor children. The interests of these children must be protected and the family, in the broad sense – not just the couple – must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u120	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 225.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u121	This is an important element in the current context, with many concerns about the threats that certain developments pose to the interests of children. You want to entrust to the notary the task of determining what is in the interests of the children. The notary's clients, however, are not children, but parents: there is a risk of being faced with situations where the change in the marital regime will be detrimental to the interests of minor children. Therefore, it would be prudent not to amend this legislation with regard to the minor child under guardianship.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u123	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u125	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u126	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u127	There are two points on which you have never answered in the course of successive readings, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and first of all on the problem of the mercantile nature of the relationship between the notary and the parents of minor children, the latter being a service provider paid directly by his clients: he will therefore be both the adviser and the cashier. Second, you can choose your notary, unlike a judge. Parents will therefore be able to choose a notary sensitive to their interests more than to those of minor children. Can you at least admit that this is a cause for concern for the interests of the minor child?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u128	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u129	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u130	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 43 and 100. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u131	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u132	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u133	The purpose of this amendment is to delete Article 8a, introduced by the National Assembly at first reading, concerning the matrimonial rights of protected adults. This article aims in particular at enabling adults under guardianship or guardianship to marry or to conclude a civil pact of solidarity without prior control by the judge. These provisions had been rejected by the Senate. Indeed, while a comprehensive reform of the legal protection of adults was expected and the original bill included only a few disparate measures on the subject, it was regrettable that the reform was finally carried out without a comprehensive vision and under conditions that did not allow for further study. On the merits, given the risk of abuse of weakness at the expense of vulnerable persons, the intervention of the judge remains indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u135	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u137	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u138	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u139	The question is delicate. While we have been waiting for some time for a comprehensive project on the legal protection of adults, we are being given a strong legal, symbolic and emotional proposal, but without a real impact assessment that will allow us to assess all the consequences. I say this with all the precautions, not only oratory but also psychological and emotional as the subject requires: this article seems to us, voted as it is and also quickly, to involve risks of abuse of weakness on vulnerable people. I regret that, in the absence of a comprehensive reform preceded by a broader study, such risks are posed to people whose difficulties would be further aggravated. If we share the objective, I would like to insist heavily on the existence of such risks of abuse of weakness on vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u141	We share your concern on this matter. That is why neither the guardian nor the judge disappears from the device. What is removed is the authorization, i.e. the a priori control of these acts which are part of the dignity and citizenship of the adult protected, but the protective mechanisms apply a posteriori or while the proceedings are initiated. The safeguards remain: they are simply shifted over time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u142	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 44 and 226. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u143	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u144	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 226.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u145	The question of the duration of measures for the protection of persons with disabilities cannot be taken lightly. The legislation already allows the judge to set a period of up to 10 years, or even 20 years, as we have said, but this is in some way contrary to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. When the data of science do not allow us to envisage a change in the state of the person, it is of course possible to derogate from this five-year deadline and to extend up to ten years renewable, but it does not seem to me to be justified to go beyond: twenty years, the duration is already important and it seems to me that it is possible to return to the court for the situation to be reconsidered. That would be a good message in favour of the right of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u147	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u149	Disadvantaged too. These are very difficult human situations, but I would point out that it is always possible to return to the guardianship judge if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u150	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u151	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u152	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 146, 171, 227 and 259. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 146.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u153	There is no doubt that conciliation has the advantage of reducing the logic of confrontation and of allowing the parties to have a longer period of reflection. It is therefore important for us to maintain the pre-conciliation phase – which the text deletes – in the litigation divorce procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u154	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u155	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u156	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 227.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u157	As Mr Gosselin has just said, this amendment seeks to reverse the abolition of the conciliation phase in the litigation divorce procedure. This phase is valuable to enable the judge to assess the situation of the spouses; It also helps to avoid divorces. Moreover, even in cases where the procedure leads to divorce, the conciliation hearing is an essential stage of a contentious divorce procedure: it allows the life of the couple and the family to be organised for the following months, before the final hearing before the judge who will pronounce the divorce. The affirmation of the exclusively judicial nature of divorce is a priority, not only to protect the child and the spouses, especially the one who undergoes the agreed divorce, but also to restore to his or her proper place the essential role of the judge in divorce. Good administration of justice depends precisely on respect for the fundamental balances and principles on which our legislation is based. In addition to what my colleague Di Filippo has said, I would like to point out that, as important and probable as they are, the task and responsibility of notaries is neither to judge nor to assess the quality of the consents, to order an inquiry, to fix the amount of alimony, nor to issue a decision bearing the authority of res judicata. I have noted that in the previous case, this was an administrative decision and that it was possible, then, to proceed to the judicial phase; However, the impact assessment annexed to the draft law by the Government itself notes that the removal of the conciliation phase may lead to a logic of confrontation between the parties. However, we are all convinced here that this logic is not the right one. I would like to mention another risk: the increase in post-divorce financial disputes. The 2014 Justice statistical references already reported 4,100 cases. It is therefore not negligible if we are to avoid an overload of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u158	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 259.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u159	There is only one question: is it necessary to question the divorce procedure, which, as it stands, is relatively balanced because the courts do not have sufficient means to deal with the cases submitted to them within a reasonable time? I don't believe it. My colleagues have said before me that the conciliation phase is very important, because it allows a large number of conflict situations to defuse. It is also often at that time that the spouses meet for the first time. In addition, it is at the end of this phase that interim measures are taken, which will be confirmed during the judgement phase. That is to say how much this phase of conciliation must be preserved, in particular because it will have consequences for the lives of minor children, who are not responsible for the tearing up of their families. Once again, I hear the desire for speed, which is one of the guarantees of good justice, but be careful not to harm larger interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u161	Unfavorable opinion. I simply point out that the myth of the couple who reconcile during the conciliation hearing is part of the urban legend.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u162	It can still happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u163	Considering what conciliation hearings are, no! On the other hand, with regard to your concerns, Mr Bazin, regarding the interim measures and the need to organise the daily life of the separated couple, we have provided for a hearing in the National Assembly to decide on the latter, which takes place after the request for divorce. These devices are therefore maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u165	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u166	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u167	I agree with my colleague Bazin. The philosophy of this text is ultimately based on the search for conciliations, consultations and agreements. However, an extremely important event can occur during the conciliation procedure: the signing of the minutes of acceptance of the principle of divorce, without any search for responsibility and cause. This is done before the judge, who ensures the informed consent and acceptance of both spouses. This goes in the direction of the "deflictualization" of divorce and the search for a solution, since of course we rule out all the explanations and all the pains that may arise, then, from the search for the causes of divorce. This is also why this conciliation procedure is particularly important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u168	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 258.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u169	A divorce for permanent alteration of the marital relationship is not an anomalous procedure. It is therefore not desirable to reduce the separation period currently required to one year, i.e. two years. Such a procedure applies when one of the spouses is the only one who wants a divorce, his or her spouse does not want it and is not guilty. You said at first reading that this two-year period did not correspond to any social reality and that it should therefore be reduced, but at no time did you demonstrate that this new one-year period would be more relevant. Moreover, it has been stated that the spouses who are embarking on divorce proceedings have already given good thought. This is not knowing what a divorce can be for permanent alteration of the marital relationship, since in this case one of the spouses does not wish to divorce and therefore still needs time to reflect. The two-year period may allow her to grieve or, on the contrary, to seek reconciliation – even if the rapporteur thinks that this is not the case in "real life". It can also allow it to organize itself or to envisage the future. It seems that you are only placing yourself from the point of view of the one who wishes to divorce when you say that reducing the time to one year corresponds to a strong expectation on the part of the litigants. This unique point of view does not seem to me to be entirely correct. Consideration must also be given to the spouse to whom the divorce is required. Maintaining a two-year period in divorce for permanent alteration of the marital relationship therefore takes more account of the different interests of the two spouses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u170	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 46, 101 and 172. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u171	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u172	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u173	The purpose of this amendment is to restore the wording adopted by the Senate at first reading concerning the procedure for the dematerialized settlement of small disputes without a hearing. Article 13 now provides for the appearance of the parties at the hearing if the court considers it necessary or if one of the parties so requests. In accordance with the Senate's position at first reading, this amendment removes the right of the court to refuse a request for a hearing made by one of the parties, considering that this could constitute an unnecessary obstacle to access to the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u174	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 172.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u175	The purpose of this amendment is to allow the parties to object to the dematerialised procedure being conducted without a hearing. Indeed, it is provided that "the court may, by specially reasoned decision, reject this application if it considers that, in view of the circumstances of the case, a hearing is not necessary to ensure the fair conduct of the proceedings. The refusal to hold a hearing cannot be contested independently of the judgement on the merits." Even if it is a matter of daily litigation, it is essential to grant a right of access to the judge to litigants. While it can be admitted that simple procedures take place in a dematerialized and non-hearing manner, it is at least imperative that the parties be able to demand a hearing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u177	Unfavorable opinion. I would remind you that the judge only decides in cases where one of the parties changes his or her mind. This decision of the judge, in the end, is necessary to ensure the proper administration of justice and to combat delaying procedures and means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u179	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u180	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u181	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u182	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u183	Article 19 concerns open data. There is no difficulty, of course, in having widely open public data, provided, however, that this does not alter the sincerity of the deliberations or the impartiality of the decisions rendered and that it does not allow the parties, the magistrates, to be re-identified. This is the subject of this amendment. In short: yes to open data, but with a lot of caution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u185	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u187	Unfavorable opinion. It seems to me that the writing of the text is balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u188	Mr Gilles Lurton, in support of Amendment No. 126, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u189	This amendment by our colleague Viala is aimed at re-establishing Rule 19 bis in the wording proposed by the Senate. This article expands the electoral college of commercial courts to include farmers as well as liberal self-employed and professional workers, extending the extension to the artisans of the electoral college. Furthermore, in order to take into account the difficulties of recruiting consular judges without calling into question the age limit of 75 years, the article allows for the election of a judge for five consecutive terms of four years instead of only four, in addition to the first term of office, which is limited to two years. It is therefore important to keep this article as drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u190	Mr Gilles Lurton, in support of Amendment No. 127, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u191	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u192	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 306 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u193	If it is not a question of denigrating honorary judges, for whom I have a great deal of respect, it seems to me that the use of these judges, particularly in the role of single judge – who often render decisions that are not subject to appeal – should not constitute a palliation for the recruitment of active judges. Yes, the use of a "reservist" steering wheel, with all due respect, but with a little more measure than the bill seems to provide!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u194	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 48 and 102. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u195	Article 22a, introduced by the National Assembly at first reading, provides for a relaxation of the conditions for the administrative mobility of advisers to administrative tribunals and administrative courts of appeal, by extending the functions which they are authorized to perform in deconcentrated or territorial administrations within the jurisdiction of their jurisdiction. These provisions seem to us to reveal the way in which justice personnel are treated, and justify their mobilization for months. By thus achieving the working conditions of these personnel, justice itself is undermined – especially since the lack of sufficient human resources to deal with cases results in an increase in the workload. We therefore propose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u196	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u197	The purpose of this amendment is to delete a provision introduced by the National Assembly at first reading on the conditions for the mobility of administrative judges. This provision provides for a relaxation of the conditions for the administrative mobility of advisers to administrative tribunals and administrative courts of appeal, by extending the functions which they are authorized to perform within deconcentrated or territorial administrations within the jurisdiction of their jurisdiction. An amendment with the same purpose had been considered in the Senate at first reading. It was rejected because its consequences in terms of conflicts of interest could not be assessed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u198	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 103 and 148. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u199	This amendment restores the version of the text adopted by the Senate at first reading, in particular in order to better regulate the conditions for filing complaints online. At the same time, it removes additions made by the National Assembly which are not clearly related to the subject matter of this article and which would merit further consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u200	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u201	The aim of this amendment is to better regulate the conditions for filing complaints online, on which many difficulties have been pointed out. I have little illusions about the opinion of the rapporteur – perhaps the future keeper of the seals... – or about that of Mrs La Custody of the Seals in title, but as the motto of Guillaume d'Orange stated, "there is no need to hope to undertake, nor to succeed in persevering. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u202	I call Mr Didier Paris, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u203	As you understand, we are dealing with the penal part of the text. We have already discussed a great deal about the conditions under which online complaints are handled, which have evolved – including on Senate injunctions – with the precision that these are online complaints of an alternative nature, not mandatory. We added that the police services could give the complainant an immediate appointment if necessary. Of course, I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u205	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u206	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u207	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u208	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 173.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u209	The aim of this amendment is to provide a better framework for pseudonymous investigations. Today, the use of pseudonymous investigation only exists in the area of organized crime and delinquency. Article 28 is intended to open this possibility to all crimes and offences punishable by imprisonment. In view of the exceptional nature of such a procedure, we consider this extension of the scope of the offences concerned to be excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u211	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u212	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u213	Unfavorable. The proposed provision would, in some cases, constitute a step backwards from current law, particularly in the area of child pornography.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my support for Amendment No 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u215	Coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u216	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u217	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u219	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u221	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u222	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u223	Madam President, I would like to make a point of order on the basis of Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure. [["That's right! » on the benches of the LR group]] As our tablets are still not working, it is difficult for us to know to which articles the amendments we are debating relate. Would you be kind enough to remind us of that so that we can follow?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u224	We are now in section 29, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u225	Good thing we've got our good old liasses!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u226	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 104 to Rule 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u227	This common sense amendment proposes to re-establish provisions that the Senate had adopted to give judicial police officers and non-commissioned officers of the National Gendarmerie Reserve the status of judicial police, provided that they have adequate training and experience. It is a great pity to deprive ourselves of the competence of these soldiers in connection with the appeals to be served as reservists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u228	Mr David Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 175 to Rule 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u229	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u230	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u231	Many of us believe that this bill makes little room for victims. Amendment No 72 gives us a good opportunity to catch up by allowing the victim to be assisted by a lawyer as soon as a complaint is lodged, and for any subsequent hearings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u233	The committee has fully understood Mr Gosselin's and his colleagues' request, but this is already perfectly satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u235	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u236	Mr David Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 176 to Rule 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u237	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u238	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 308.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u239	Amendment No 308 is intended to provide for the possibility of a foreign investigation when a person in contact with the judges or officials of the Court of Appeal is involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u240	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u241	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u242	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my support for Amendment No 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u244	The main purpose of this amendment is to draw the consequences of two decisions issued by the Constitutional Council on 8 February 2019, which declared the provisions of the 2009 Prison Act on the family reunification of accused persons – in that they do not provide for an appeal – and those of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the free hearing to be contrary to the Constitution, in that they do not provide specific guarantees for minors. It is therefore a matter of having legislative provisions in conformity with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u245	It is a chance that a text on justice will be under consideration! It was the time to never!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u247	I would like to welcome the reactivity of the Government, which has drawn the consequences of two priority constitutional issues dating from only 10 days. Of course, I have a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u248	This is the second amendment adopted! Thanks to you, we're doubling the bet, Madam Keeper of the Seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u249	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 179.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u250	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u251	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u252	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my support for Amendment No 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u254	This is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u255	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 105 and 149. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u256	The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish an additional article adopted by the Senate at first reading, which included a ban on the territory of a foreigner convicted of a crime or offence punishable by at least five years' imprisonment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u257	Mr Gosselin defended Amendment No 149.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u258	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 150.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u259	This amendment concerns legal recidivism, which would be automatically brought before the court of judgment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u260	Mr Gosselin defended Amendment No 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u261	Mr Gosselin defended Amendment No 152.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u262	Amendment No 181 to Article 45a B is defended by Mr David Habib.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u263	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u264	The purpose of this amendment is to extend the scope of socio-judicial monitoring. It is in the interests of justice and in the interests of each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u265	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 73 and 182. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u266	It's forbidden, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u267	Amendment No 182 is defended by Mr David Habib.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u268	Amendment No 183 is defended by Mr David Habib.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u269	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 154 and 252. The first was defended by Mr. Philippe Gosselin. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 252.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u270	Last December, during the first reading, the new so-called "home detention" was adopted under electronic supervision. Created from scratch, without any specific study to convince us of its relevance, it had been presented as a possible substitute for prison sentences between fifteen days and six months. Of course, we all have in mind that as of July 1, 2018, the number of people incarcerated has reached a new record: more than 700,000 people were detained while the capacity of prisons is only 59870 places. This overpopulation brings the prison density rate to 118 per cent in all facilities and 141 per cent in remand centres. Like you, I regret it and, I imagine, like you, I don't think that the all-carceral is necessarily the right answer. It seems to me, however, that the device you are proposing here does not obey any logic, be it repressive, dissuasive or educational, and there is no evidence that it is effective. It seems to me that, unfortunately, you send to offenders, with this measure, ever more visible signals of a justice that does not really fulfill its role and which, worse, by its inaction, sometimes encourages recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u271	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 155 and 269. Amendment No 155 was defended by Mr Gosselin. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 269.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u272	Rule 48 bis should be reinstated as voted by the Senate, as it proposes an important measure in the context of justice reform. It is prohibited for an inmate to be granted second parole after the failure of a first release. The main argument put forward in committee to justify the deletion of this provision is that it would contravene the principle of personalization of the sentence. But I would point out that before a convicted person was released on parole, he had already been sentenced by the sentence enforcement judge at the end of his trial. This amendment is therefore of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u273	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 156.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u274	We do not wish to see forced release as a rule of principle: it must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the principle of the present case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u275	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u276	The aim is to restore the electronic surveillance of the end of sentence, repealed by the Act of 15 August 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u277	Amendment No 184 is defended by Mr David Habib.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u278	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 158.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u279	It's forbidden... for lack of better because we don't have the liases of amendments in paper form and my tablet doesn't work anymore – it's really a problem. It becomes a little complicated to follow...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u280	We are now in Rule 51a and the amendment concerns the correspondence of detainees. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u281	Amendment No 158 concerns the electronic isolation of detainees. The committee again delivered an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u282	Mr Gosselin defended Amendment No 159 to Rule 51b.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u283	I have before me four identical amendments to Article 52a, Nos 160, 185, 251 and 318. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u284	We are looking at the amendments at a rate of slaughter – I think we have rarely gone so fast... Amendment No. 160 goes back to the use of ordinances to reform juvenile justice. That was what inflamed our debates – and rightly – at first reading. Although we are trying to settle the fate of this text this evening in two or two and a half hours, which I find rather regrettable, there is still a vice ab initio: we are always denouncing with the same force, the same vigour, this recourse to the ordinances because the conditions laid down in Article 38 of the Constitution are not fulfilled. In this regard, our arguments have not changed from previous readings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u285	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u286	The power to legislate by ordinances as requested by the Government is obviously too vague and too broad. Beyond the brutality of the method used, namely to have an amendment voted which had not given rise to prior discussion, Parliament cannot thereby divest itself of its prerogatives. Beyond the opposition forces, I appeal to all Members, because it is our responsibility: we must be able to intervene in a debate in the name of the powers that the Constitution gives us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u287	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 251.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u288	We all remember your announcement, Madam Minister, when, under the guise of finally dealing with the issue of minors, you chose to ignore Parliament when the subject is of the most serious nature. This phenomenon is not new, however, because already in 2002, the Senate published an alarming report on the transformation, if not the transformation, of juvenile delinquency. Far from being fantasized, the signals are red and everything passes: rejuvenation of delinquency, aggravation of violence, crime of exclusion with the proliferation of ghettos and trafficking, the list is still long. In short, as you see, Minister, the subject is vast and there are many concerns. Therefore, instead of once again trying to exclude Parliament – and by the way the French, since we are still representing them – at a time when the President of the Republic pleads for broad consultation with the French, you could do just as much with the parliamentarians. Please be aware that all Members would be happy to work with you to make this project as effective and operational as possible: we are here to legislate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u289	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 318.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u290	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Philippe Gosselin also applauds]] The reform of the juvenile criminal justice system is a delicate subject by definition, and it must be done with a trembling hand, after wide consultation with all the actors involved. To proceed by way of an amendment to an application for authorization to legislate by order is not acceptable, both for the people and the professionals of the justice system and for Parliament, which has been deprived of its legislative power on such a sensitive matter, I insist, that it requires collegiality and serenity. These are the main substantive reasons for the request to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u292	It is normal for us to dwell for a few moments on this important article,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u293	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u294	...even if we repeat arguments that we have made in previous readings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u295	We do not intend to validate the fait accompli!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u296	The Minister has already returned at length: the order responds to an imperative need to reform the juvenile criminal justice system, of which everyone knows the foundations – the 1945 order. It will of course not be a question of putting out a text from the chapeau, but of feeding it with analyses, studies and the work already begun by Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier, which could be supplemented by that of the contact group which we have mentioned on several occasions. I understand that all the political groups want to participate, which would be an obvious enrichment. As you know, Mr Gosselin, the second paragraph of Article 38 of the Constitution does not allow for a deferred application of the scheme. Only, the order can itself provide for it; This has already been done, particularly in the area of contract law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u297	It's not the same as criminal law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u298	It is clear that, in no way, and the Minister has repeatedly committed herself to doing so, the provisions of the Order will not apply within a period of one year that will allow us to review the ratification bill. The mechanism will therefore, in a way, incorporate Parliament's thinking. It will in no way be implemented until the latter has decided to do so. To say that Parliament is blurred in its rights therefore seems to me an unwarranted reproach. In any event, we fully agree to move forward in the field of juvenile justice, because the wait for reform has been too long. We will be able to do so on the basis of a codification and a significant improvement of the rules, as long as we decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u300	I have an unfavorable opinion for four reasons. First of all, this text responds to a real expectation of professionals. On all sides, we are asked to rework on the 1945 order, and many projects had already...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u301	In substance, we agree, but the means you use are a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u302	I'm talking about the bottom line, but we have to give ourselves the means to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u303	Yet these means must be constitutional!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u304	Constitutional means, of course; I don't want to do anything else! Then, after numerous reports and various attempts, the Government has the will to reach a conclusion on this subject. I am thinking of the report delivered in 2008 by the committee chaired by Rector André Varinard, or of the work carried out when Mrs Christiane Taubira was guard of the seals. I want us to succeed. I would remind you that this reform has a dual purpose. It aims, on the one hand, to codify scattered provisions, because today no one knows how to find themselves there effectively, and, on the other hand, to renovate where this appears necessary. In addition, I would like to stress the guarantees established by the Constitutional Council, which form the fundamental constitutional principles of juvenile justice, namely, the specialisation of the courts, the primacy of education over repression, or the mitigation of responsibility. I would like them to remain clearly in the text that we have renovated. Finally, we put forward a method that will be based on professionals, on the work of parliamentarians, and on the contact group that will be set up in the Committee on Laws. We will also work with senators who have already been involved in this matter. Therefore, for me this mechanism is absolutely essential. I would point out that there is a provision for a deferred entry into force of the order, so that Parliament has the opportunity to seize the text. This will be part of the national child protection strategy, as it is this set that will give its meaning to the renovation of the 1945 Ordinance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u305	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u306	You know, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that we share the same diagnosis about the 1945 Order: to a large extent, it is now inadequate, and the professionals themselves are calling for its revision. On this point, there is no problem between us, although the remedies we advocate may be different. On the other hand, we differ on how to reform this text. We believe that the use of the ordinances of article 38 of the Constitution, the resurgence of the famous decree-laws of the third and fourth centuries Republic, is not the right solution. Yes, rapporteur, Parliament is indeed blurred in its rights by this practice – after all, it is even the proper one in Article 38 of the Constitution! But, in this case, this goes further because, when you take as a reference the reform of contract law, you underestimate the subject matter dealt with: it is part of criminal law, which, as you know, does not comply with the same constitutional rules as contract law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u307	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u308	I insist very heavily on this point, because, of course, in the event of an appeal to the Constitutional Council, you are quite certain that it will deal with, among other things, section 52 A of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u309	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 161.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u310	There is a need for inclusive justice that allows broad access to justice for all. Without waiting for the announced work on legal aid reform, we want to increase spending on legal aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u312	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u314	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u315	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 162.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u316	It would have been consistent to link justice reform to legal aid reform. I welcome the rapporteur's return to this part of the text, but I have little illusion that she was able to change her mind – I am probably anticipating her answer a little bit, but at the speed at which we are going, we are not anticipating much more, and there are few more answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u318	[[Smile]] Mr President, I confirm that I have not changed my mind at all. I wait so impatiently to read your report that my opinion will not change until you have given it back. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u320	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u321	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 95 and 163. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u322	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u323	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 163.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u324	It still concerns legal aid. To return to Caesar what is Caesar's, the rapporteur, I would like to point out that we are working on this with Mrs Naïma Moutchou.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u325	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u326	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u327	Mr Gosselin, are you defending Amendment No 165?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u328	I'm defending him, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u329	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u330	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u331	I have four identical amendments to Rule 53, Nos 1, 22,189 and 310 before me. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u332	I'm defending him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u333	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u334	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u335	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 189.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u336	He is also defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u337	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 310.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u338	The merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance will undoubtedly lead to the evaporation of places of justice. I will not repeat our arguments, but I note that the mere fact of talking about evaporation provokes some reaction from the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u339	A little emotion, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u340	This merger is, in my view, a mistake. This is a systemic reform: we return to the organisation of the courts in France. There will probably be some welcome mutualizations, but far too many negative effects that will eventually result, by evaporation, without immediate notice, in the closure of places of justice. Today, the seal keeper assures us that this will not be the case, and I would be happy to acknowledge what she has said on this subject. Certainly, there will be no transformation tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow, what will happen? From experience, we all know that mergers end in disappearances.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u341	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u342	Unfavorable opinion. You mustn't shake a red cloth! This merger is a fully assumed reform that will allow the litigants to no longer hesitate between the High Court and the High Court when they seek the judge competent for a case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u343	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u344	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u345	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u346	I recall what I said at first reading, Madam Keeper of the Seals: as long as you are here, the process of fusion and specialization does not concern me too much,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u347	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u348	You're not here forever!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u349	...but I see very well the trajectory for later. As our colleague Philippe Gosselin has said, we have already known that. I have seen, in some departments, especially the one in which I live, the specialization of sub-prefectures. The trajectory is as follows: they are emptied of their contents, and once inefficiency and inactivity have been observed, an activity transfer is carried out. That is why serious concerns have been expressed every time we have examined these provisions of your text. You responded to the mail about Breton territory. I trust you, but, I repeat, what worries me is what will happen next. The trajectory of this text is in line with the mistakes made ten years ago by Mrs Rachida Dati.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u350	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u351	I want once again to try to reassure our colleagues who refer to courts emptied of their substance. This text contains all the guarantees which make it possible to state that this will not be the case. A criterion related to the technicality of the files and the volumetricity was set precisely because we do not want mass litigation to leave the local courts. You must be reassured, and take care to reassure yourself those who would be worried in your ridings, where you can explain that specialization will only concern highly specialized disputes with low volumetricity. Proximity courts will not be emptied of their substance; It will continue to be everywhere. It is the commitment of the minister, but even more so, it is the very text of the bill that is before us, particularly section 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u352	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u353	See you in three years! We'll make a report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u354	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 187, 236 and 302. I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 187.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u355	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u356	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u357	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to believe you, and I would like to believe the colleagues of the majority who tell us: rest assured, nothing will change! But if nothing changes, then why this provision? What is your intention? Why the merger? The amendment is intended to ensure that court clerks of the courts of first instance will always be present in local courts. Since we are committed to this local justice, we must provide ourselves with the means to preserve it and ensure that these means remain available. These are, in particular, the officials of the registry offices, who are specialists in the litigation of these local courts. As Mr Thierry Benoit pointed out, the competences to be maintained are a real challenge: we must create the conditions for these courts to continue. However, I am afraid that Article 53 creates the conditions for a future weakening of this model of proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u358	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 302.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u359	Since Mrs La Garde des Seales tells us that there is no difficulty, I invite my colleagues to join the floor by raising their hands to vote on this amendment. Let's give registry officials the guarantee that they will continue to be present in local courts! The thesis of evaporative non-deletion will then be credible – one could also speak of frog syndrome.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u360	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u361	The opinion is unfavourable. I would like to refer for a moment to your previous amendment, Mr Gosselin: with regard to evaporation, the disappearance of places of justice without being aware of it, I must tell you that I have never seen a court closed without anyone seeing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u362	Because in general, it provokes reactions! I can give you examples!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u363	This text does not change anything in this regard. The places of justice, all listed in the annex to the code of the judicial organization, will not change. I would add that the procedure will remain absolutely the same. There can therefore be no more abolitions of places of justice tomorrow than yesterday. With regard to these amendments, I would point out that the officials of the registries of the courts of main instance will be assigned either to the court or to the seat of a second chamber, i.e. in a place of justice, and not elsewhere. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u364	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u365	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u366	It is also an unfavorable opinion. I would just like to point out to the honourable Member who was kind enough to tell me that he thought that as long as I was there, there were few concerns to have,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u367	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u368	...that it's not about people. On the contrary, the provisions we are making are designed to strengthen all the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u369	That's what you think for 2019, but we'll see later!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u370	When we anticipate that the contentious powers of a local court can be increased, what else do we do, if not densify, revive, revitalize that court? I repeat, it's not about people. It's a matter of organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u371	We've been talking about this for a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u372	And not only do we imagine it accordingly, but we will ensure that this imagination takes power by translating itself into reality. On the other hand, I would also like to reassure you, Mr Gosselin: I have had the opportunity to confirm to you on numerous occasions that magistrates and registry staff will be assigned precisely to the place where they will be performing their duties. Thus, a magistrate will be assigned to the local court and the registry staff will be assigned to the same court. This will appear on their posting orders. I therefore do not see what would justify a concern for these courts, knowing that their physical location and the presence of magistrates and registry staff are guaranteed. You have to know right at some point to keep.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u373	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u374	To go back to our colleague Bazin's recommendations: yes of course to the local courts, but also to the specialised courts. Erwan Balanant cited the example of intellectual property litigation by referring to copyright, and I could refer to the dispute under the Joint Rural Lease Court. There is a need for specialized magistrates to be able to respond to the needs of the litigants and thus provide better justice as quickly as possible. Specialisation does not exclude proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u375	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u376	Everything that we will give to our magistrates to enable them to specialize in certain disputes will go in the right direction and not against proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u377	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u378	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u379	Mrs. Keeper of the Seals is surprised that we can be worried. But like other colleagues, I could cite examples of everyday life in our rural departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u380	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u381	These are sub-prefectures that are not removed, but that are no longer open to the public and are now without any attributions other than those of the sub-prefect in person. The latter's competence is not at issue, but if he remains with the mayors, he no longer receives a public for lack of services available. I am thinking of several sub-prefectures of the English Channel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u382	Let's talk about the courts, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u383	But Madam Keeper of the Seals, comparison here is quite right. And I could also talk about other administrations that have specialized themselves: cash disappears in us one after the other, because they have specialized and they have been deemed necessary to group them together; The same goes for post offices. You're going to tell me that it's not the same as justice, but it's exactly the same logic. Of course, the rapporteur, whom we are not going to remove overnight, a door to justice, but we will no longer appoint to certain posts. You know very well that already today, judicial posts are not filled – this is true for the seat as well as for the prosecutor's office. Because the functions may not be sufficiently attractive, nor are the departments in question, and here and there there are examples of judges, prosecutors or substitutes who are not appointed. Still in the English Channel – everyone talks first of all about what he knows well – I am thinking of a police station which, for months, has been waiting for the arrival of a police commissioner, who will not arrive because there is no candidacy. I am not saying that the same will happen in all courts, but you know very well that this section 53 will amplify an already very worrying phenomenon. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I'm not going to try you for intent, Madam Keeper of the Seals, but you will see that administrative logic will lead, in a very near future, to the disappearance, by evaporation, of points of entry into justice. It's obvious! There may not be pure and hard suppressions in the logic of what we saw at a certain time, but in fact there will be disappearance and therefore, I insist, evaporation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u384	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u385	Yours have sprayed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u386	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u387	You see, Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, it's the experience that leads us to react.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u388	Not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u389	When I hear fusion, absorption, specialization, I come back to my sub-prefectures: in my department of Ille-et-Vilaine, the sub-prefecture of the Borough of Fougères-Vitré was specialized – at the time, it was in the authorization to carry weapons – and for the security commissions, you have to contact the Redon sub-prefect, an hour and a quarter drive from Romagné, located near Fougères – I am thinking here of the motorcycle-cross association that wants to organize a competition. Local elected representatives and associations have been removed in terms of proximity. You said that the court would be included in the order for the assignment of magistrates and registry staff. I trust you, but unfortunately I'm not keeping seals for life...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u390	[[Smile]] Whatever!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u391	[[Mr Thibault Bazin and Mr Philippe Gosselin applaud]] There will be other ministers who will take other orders. No one will come to mention the speeches made by MPs Benoit, Lurton, Gosselin and other colleagues to Mrs Belloubet: it will be over. The trajectory will have been initiated and the evolution will be in a manner that is both meticulous and sneaky. That's our fear. Of course what you said about the assignment orders reassures me and reassures the mayor of Fougères, you wrote it to us; But in a few years, there will be other orders and you will not come back to the Members. We must also explain to our fellow citizens, during the great national debate, that no less parliamentarians are needed: what is needed is that Members have a much more important role to play in the organisation and control of disadministration in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u392	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u393	It is true, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that we have had this debate a hundred times since the beginning of the examination of these texts, but I must be a little more difficult to understand than the others. If this bill is supplemented by an organic bill, it is because the status of magistrates is particularly protected and an organic law is needed to amend it. You say that the magistrates of the local courts will be affected by order to the local courts that we refer to... But they no longer exist, or will no longer exist! There will be a judicial court and separate chambers, so judges will be appointed to the court where they will be required to perform their duties. The jurisdiction itself will no longer exist. Will you appoint a magistrate to the detached chamber of Sannois...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u394	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u395	...to that of Montmorency...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u396	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u397	...or in some former seat of a district court? This is not in the law. What did you provide for in this organic bill, under normal conditions of appointment of magistrates and installation in their office, to appoint them there? However, your text removes the Vice-President in charge of the administration of the trial court and the trial judge, without providing for any measure that would corroborate the words you want to reassuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u398	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u399	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u400	Mr President, the judges will indeed be appointed to the future local court, which, administratively, will be a separate chamber from the judicial court, as is already the case for the existing spare chambers. It already exists, whether in Millau or elsewhere. In addition, you are well aware that the trial judges will be replaced, as a post, by the protection judges, who are still assigned to these local courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u401	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 8, 24, 87, 94, 191, 237 and 248. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u402	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u403	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u404	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u405	Amendment No 87 is being defended. Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u406	The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish the text as adopted in the Senate at first reading, which provides for the establishment of a mechanism to oversee any change in the judicial map, involving the heads of courts and departmental elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u407	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u408	It is an amendment to be acceptable to the seal keeper and to allow her to keep her promises, and we wish her long life in her ministry. But since local elected officials also need tangible evidence of affection, we propose that through this amendment they be fully involved in all the supervisory mechanisms that would result in the revision or modification of the judicial map. What some see here as a trial of intent would therefore be totally reversed. The association of the heads of courts would ensure the serenity of the procedure, which would undoubtedly make it possible to see the future differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u409	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 237.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u410	Madam Keeper of the Seals, what worries us is the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u411	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u412	As far as the future of our local jurisdictions is concerned, you have given us a number of short-term guarantees – as long as you are the one to name in these spare rooms. Through this amendment, we want to put in place a mechanism that reassures us even more about what will happen when you are no longer in custody of the seals. The aim is to ensure that any changes to the judicial map are made in consultation and are evaluated. A few days ago, I took part in the solemn court of Lunéville's re-entry hearing. I was impressed by the volume of activity, but also by the proximity and quality of the relationships, particularly with the agents, who were very present at this hearing. Although symbolic, these hearings provide an account of the work of the courts. Such assessments will be essential tomorrow in order not to make mistakes. Some have spoken of the past: let us make sure by voting on this amendment that the past does not become a passive that repeats itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u413	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 248.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u414	This article is certainly one of the most reactionary in this House, both on the right and on the left. With him, you propose to merge the courts of instance and of high instance in order to pool the number of magistrates and clerks and to unify their management. Before the Christmas holidays, lawyers did not hide their anger before a justice that, instead of going to meet the litigants, went away from them. Tomorrow, under the guise of specialization and rationalization, it will be necessary to travel tens or hundreds of kilometres to access a TGI. The merger with the courts of high instance of the courts of instance, which deal with everyday disputes, may eventually lead to the disappearance of this local justice system. Some go so far as to say that the adoption of this article will lead to the disappearance of the judge of the poor and the closure of many courts that would be completely emptied of their substance. Madam Minister, I have heard your denials. Allow me, however, to convey the concerns of many of our fellow citizens. As you advocate better justice, you make it more complex, away from the people and, in some cases, almost dehumanized. You have said and repeated, as you have done right now, that the purpose of this bill is by no means to close the courts. However, by giving the heads of the courts the means to close the courts of appeal if they deem it necessary, you delegate the coup de grace that will complete the local justice system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u415	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 2, 23, 88, 96, 188 and 250. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u416	It aims to eliminate the possibility of specialisation of courts of general jurisdiction at the departmental level. Madam Minister, you are telling us that everything will be fine as long as you are here, and that you are taking every precaution to ensure that there are no problems afterwards either. Your reassuring comments remind me of another piece of legislation that I am currently working on. You are going to tell me that both have nothing to do with it, but that is not my opinion: they are in the case of too many texts that we are voting in this House. Minister, we had the great pleasure of seeing you about ten days ago to report on our Macron enforcement report. You listened to us with interest when we talked to you about the advice of prud'hommes, which I thank you for. We did the same last week to Mrs Pénicaud on the opening of shops on Sundays. I remember telling Mr Macron when I participated in the special committee on the law on economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u417	He's seeing, and he's just seeing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u418	Jean-Frédéric Poisson, who was a Member of Parliament at the time, said that as of September 20, 2018, traders would not have settled the compensation they owe their employees. We were assured that this would not be the case and that the Government would ensure that there was no problem. We had this discussion throughout the whole review of the bill in committee – there was no second reading of this bill that was passed very quickly thanks to the use of the so-called 49.3 procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u419	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u420	In all these laws, precautions for the future have not been taken, and the same applies to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u421	We fight for posterity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u422	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u423	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u424	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u425	It also deals with article 53, which contains many paragraphs, which clearly shows that it is a reform within the reform itself. The amendment concerns paragraphs 29 to 36, the large and magnificent gas plant envisaged for the specialisation of certain courts. We want to simplify the text and serve the ministry by proposing to return to ordinary law, if I can say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u426	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u427	This will remove the substance of the measure from the courts of proximity and, consequently, remove the accused from the justice system. Although at present Ms. Keeper of the Seals states that there is no provision for the removal of courts, this measure may eventually lead to deletions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u428	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u429	I am not going to speak of a masquerade for this article 53, but it represents exactly what makes the French angry when they try to decipher government policy. The President of the Republic goes from debate to debate, says he is very attached to France's provinces, presents himself as the first guarantor of public services and declares that he wants to offer the French, when tax is paid, the best of services. All this in order to bring about a change in the territorial organization that has not been discussed in the territories! If so many of us react by using the same words although we belong to different political sensitivities, it is because there are women and men in the opposition who represent their territory and who are very attached to the functioning of public services. Jean-Paul Mattei knows how much in our department and in the Béarn we have been questioned on this issue. This is not the time to question the territorial organization of the public service of justice. It is our responsibility, even if it is late, even if we are exhausted, to alert the entire national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u430	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 250.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u431	With this amendment, I would like to go back to your logic of specialisation of the courts, which, in the long run, will empty some of them for the benefit of others. You tell us that since there are several judicial courts in the same department, one of them can be specially designated by decree to be the only one to deal with, over the whole department, a particular dispute. This simple assumption creates an obvious imbalance between departments depending on whether they will be larger or smaller or on the policy that will be applied to them. Thus, depending on whether you live in my department, the Hérault, or in the Pas-de-Calais, justice can be more or less close to your place of life. You tell us that this measure can even apply to two different departments when the geographical proximity of these two territories justifies it. All this is very much like a reform of the judicial map which dares not say its name and which is based not on the needs of the French, but on the number and technicality of the files. This dynamic is dangerous, which is why I call for the deletion of these paragraphs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u432	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u433	That's an unfavorable opinion. First of all, I would like to point out that no one in this House has a monopoly on attachment to local areas and public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u434	But some have it more than others!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u435	You make a declaration of love, but there are no facts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u436	With regard to the fear, expressed by some, that this reform would deprive the courts of their substance, we have repeatedly said that this specialisation does not concern mass litigation, but only those of low volume and high technicality. Litigation that represents no more than 10 per cent of the work of the courts cannot deprive them of their substance. Mrs Ménard, I would just like to point out that the provisions you have read come from the first reading of the text, which was amended at second reading. It is therefore a matter of territorial distribution: it is not a court, but all the courts of a department that will be specialized, so that there is a distribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u437	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u438	I would like to add a few words to the rapporteur's remarks to point out that the aim of the distribution of specialised disputes is to improve the efficiency of justice and to speed up the delivery of judgments by competent judges in highly technical matters. They will not have to reinvest the matter they need to mobilise in order to render their judgement on the occasion of this technical dispute. This very simple logic is obvious. And, as the rapporteur has said, it does not concern mass disputes which, in all the courts, make up 90% of the cases dealt with, but only a few specialised disputes. Finally, in reply to Mr. Habib, who pointed out that this amendment had not been discussed in the territories, I would say that this draft makes the assumption that it can be dealt with by each of the territories. It has also been envisaged that the courts, which include local elected representatives and lawyers, will be consulted. It is therefore very much a matter of territorial projects. If they are built and meet the need for this territory, they will be taken into account. Otherwise, the situation will remain as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u439	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u440	We are still in the same condition, the risk of evaporation, disappearance. We can devitalize judicial sites without scratching them with a pen. You will not blame me for insisting once again on this aspect, which is at the heart of a reform whose effects, unfortunately, will not be visible until it is too late.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u441	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u442	Disadvantaged, because the amendment seems to me to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u443	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 166, 190 and 247. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u444	It removes the experiment concerning the courts of appeal, which seems to us too broad and insufficiently supervised, and which risks creating a hierarchy between the chiefs of courts and, consequently, between the courts themselves. This is not our conception of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u445	On the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u446	I will use the same arguments as Mr. Gosselin, because I see what is happening at home. Can you imagine a specialization that would make Bordeaux prevail over Pau? [[Smile]] In this hypothesis, we would be many – including some who need it – to start a hunger strike. Madam Minister, we cannot do this: there is obviously a need to rethink the mechanism. Many of our colleagues have spoken this evening and have done so in the past. We are confident in your will: we know that you have never been inhabited by the desire to destructure our public service. This bill will, however, survive your majority, and I fear that some will benefit from it, as has been mentioned, to rationalize. But such a development can sometimes – I take the example of my department and my region – give the most unbearable things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u447	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 247.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u448	You propose to experiment with the specialization of certain courts of appeal in order, we are told, to better organize our judicial system. For my part, it seems to me that the very principle of experimentation in this field poses a problem, since it induces a difference in treatment between individuals – certainly for a period of three years, but a difference in treatment nevertheless. There is therefore a risk of a break in equality between territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u449	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my support for Amendment No 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u450	This is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u451	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my support for Amendment No 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u452	This is the overseas application of the judge of compensation for victims of terrorist acts, the JIVAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u453	Since we have a few minutes left before the public vote, Mr. Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u454	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I will take this opportunity to say all the good that we think of this text and this definitive reading: you liked the beginning, you will necessarily like the end. There is nothing to worry about, ladies and gentlemen: it is only the democratic debate, which I believe you cannot take away from. We are finishing at one o'clock in the morning – I will not stress the late hour, because it is quite common to work in the night session and that is not the purpose of my remarks – the final reading of this text, which took us only a few hours. It was carried out by force, with amendments that followed at an unbridled pace without the debate being really reopened. Only four amendments were adopted – government amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u455	They were excellent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u456	We are at the starting point, that is to say, a text entirely assumed by the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u457	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u458	We had a point of convergence with regard to the diagnosis, which was much more shared, no doubt, than in previous legislatures. However, we are going to split up on a real finding of disagreement: our justice will be less close tomorrow and unfortunately – beyond the assurances we have been given, the certainty and what has been said – less at the service of our fellow citizens. That's what we'll remember. In the long run, the risk is that there will be a evaporation of justice as well as a form of privatization, which will also take place through LegalTech, which will not provide us with certification or quality assurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u459	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u460	The distance from justice will be further reinforced by a form of digitisation that is pushed to the extreme. We regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u461	Mr Terlier, would you like to speak again?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u462	No, thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u463	In principle, there are no explanations of vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u464	I put to the vote the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u465	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 31 Against 11
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u466	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u467	I would really like to thank all the Members, and first of all, the rapporteurs, but also all the supporters of the majority group, LaREM, and the MODEM, whose work, I believe, has led to a very considerable enrichment of the text. I would also like to thank the opposition Members: some of you, although I will not mention all of you, have been particularly active on this text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Beyond our disagreements, I can assure you that in the way I will really be very attentive to its implementation, each of your comments will be remembered. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u468	I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that the vote by public ballot on the whole of the organic bill would take place on Wednesday, 20 February, after questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-18-O1155.u469	Next meeting this morning at 9:30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
