ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate to prevent and punish violence during demonstrations (No. 1352, 1600).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u3	Every week, violence takes place. Every week, pavements fly. Every week, windows explode, blows go away. Every week, a small minority of bullies threaten, aim, attack. These bullies are raging in Paris where they degrade to the symbols of the Republic. They are raging everywhere in France, listening only to their thirst for chaos. I'm talking about bullies, not protesters. We could have minimized the facts, ignored them, spoken of fantasy, refused to see the truth in the face and claimed that nothing serious was happening, that nothing had changed in substance. We could have reached out to those indignant professionals who claim to be Republicans and support calls to overthrow the state, but we have chosen responsibility. We chose to declare that the violence had lasted too long. We chose to tell the law enforcement forces, remarkable in professionalism and cold-bloodedness, that we were at their side. We have chosen to defend not a few thousand bullies, but the millions of French who can't. The bill we are considering tonight is not a piece of legislation. Indeed, the Senate had adopted it before the yellow vest demonstrations began. During its review, the Government had issued a wisdom opinion and suggested technical adjustments that it considered necessary by proposing that a working group of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice should render its conclusions by 15 January: we have passed that date and we are working in that framework today. In essence, this law proposes a broader response, since the rise of violence did not date from last November. For months, and perhaps years, protest movements have been radicalizing. Around those who wish to demonstrate to make their demands and anger heard, which is perfectly legitimate, there are small opportunistic groups whose only mantra is the will to destroy. On May 1, 2018, "black blocks" had already organized, striking, attacking and leaving wounds in Paris. Let us remember, even earlier, Notre-Dame-des-Landes, the G7 and the G20. Let us recall this CRS that "black blocks" tried to immolate on May 1, 2017. On the margins of each demonstration, courageously hidden behind masks, small groups try to make their Grand Evening happen. They do so with ever more determination, ever more violence, ever more brutality. Violence must not become the norm! The right to demonstrate must be protected, not taken hostage. Calm and serenity must be restored. Perhaps not everyone will share this view because, I know, some people take the side of chaos rather than of the Republic. Some do not like this Government: that they do not like it is one thing, that they call on to trample on democracy and attack the forces of law and order is another. I invite people who throw the anathema and find it normal to throw scooters, petanque balls, even Molotov cocktails on the law enforcement forces, but not to frame the demonstrations, to meet the law enforcement forces as I do every day, and this evening again with the Alliance union. Because I heard the law enforcement say, "They wanted to kill us, they wanted to kill us. A police commissioner told me that she barely had time to get out of her car attacked and burned and that she thought she died. Some gendarmes told me again how the premises of the Narbonne motorway gendarmerie platoon were sacked and burned. Let us not make a mistake on the side where the violence takes place. Today, on social networks, the abbots speak to the conspirators. They don't know anything but accuse of everything, and spread lies that some people take back without thinking. If a policeman acts badly, if he is suspected of having intentionally injured a protestor, an investigation by the General Inspection of the National Police – the IGPN – will be opened immediately. And if it's proven that the policeman committed a mistake, he'll be punished. So I don't see why investigations would be carried out and sanctions taken against the police, but not against the bullies! Ladies and gentlemen, my message is clear: every violence is too much violence, every injured person, whether in a yellow vest or with a blue kepi, is too much injury. That's enough! It's time to act and stop the bullies! Progress has already been made. The Government, myself with Laurent Nunez, the prefects, the police and the gendarmerie, reacted. We have changed our law and order doctrine and are working to change it further. We have decided to do everything possible to implement a fair use of the means, for example by generalizing the pediment-cameras when the defense-ball launchers – LBD – are used. The police force is now more mobile and the CRS or mobile gendarmes are accompanied by judicial police officers so that more arrests are made and the procedures lead to an appropriate criminal response. We have strengthened the presence of the forces of law and order who, every Saturday, are present, invested. They save neither their time nor their efforts. They see the violence closely and do everything they can to prevent or contain it. I want to pay tribute to the police and the gendarmes. They spend a lot of time framing these demonstrations and arresting the bullies who sow violence. It is as long as they do not spend with their families, nor do they spend time on the ground, fighting crime and enforcing the law. Every week, violence continues. Do not believe the opposite, let's open our eyes: this week again, the violence was numerous in Paris, Dijon, Bordeaux, Montpellier, Évreux. Last Saturday, in Quimper, acid was thrown into the face of three CRSs. That same Saturday, in Rouen, a policeman was thrown down his bike and dragged to the ground for 20 meters. That is the reality of violence! That's the reality that some people don't want to talk about! Last Saturday, throughout France, forty-five policemen and gendarmes were injured. Speaking of these acts, I am also thinking of the Puy-en-Velay, whose prefecture was burned, I am thinking of Narbonne, whose sub-prefecture was attacked, I am thinking of the Breton sub-prefecture of Pontivy, which was sacked and burned the day before yesterday. I am thinking of the daily vandalized permanences and the death threats that too many elected officials receive regularly. Some of them are here and I would like to greet them. In total, more than 1100 police officers and gendarmes were injured. Yellow vests were also injured and journalists were attacked. Yesterday, the premises of France Bleu Isère were set on fire. Millions of euros of urban furniture went into smoke. All our institutions are targeted. As the Prime Minister said, we therefore needed an even stronger response than we had put in place. That is precisely the purpose of this bill. It is a question of allowing everyone to express themselves and to manifest themselves without risking being attacked by those who are there to deal with them. The goal is to provide police and justice with new, even more effective tools. I firmly say that this text is not an anti-yellow vest law, nor is it an anti-demonstration law. On the contrary, it is a law against violent people. It's a law of protection. It is a law of freedom that must prevent some brutes from depriving citizens of the fundamental freedom to demonstrate. This text is the result of a transparency work, which may have accused me of doing so. The original bill had been made by the Republicans of the Senate. That is important because, in our mind, it shows that the gravity of the situation is understood beyond the dividing lines. And when it comes to protecting the French, we no longer wonder whether an idea comes from this or that, but only if it is good or bad. Madam rapporteur, Madam President, this text has been improved in the Committee on Laws and I welcome the work done by Members to examine it in a very limited time frame. I am aware of this and I wanted to thank you for your efficiency. During the discussion of the amendments at the meeting, I will have the opportunity to introduce to you the drafting of the article proposed by the Government in order to allow the prefects to prohibit violent persons from participating in demonstrations. We will discuss the text in detail. I would like to reiterate its objective, which is threefold: to prevent violence, to empower our law enforcement agencies and to strengthen sanctions against violent persons. Beyond Article 1, which you propose to improve efficiency through amendments, I would like to go back to one or two points, starting with the administrative ban on participating in an event provided for in Article 2. The observation is simple: a final judicial conviction necessarily takes time. However, people incite and frequently practice violence, attacking law enforcement and destroying shops before fleeing, as they are trained. These people, we find them every week breaking up and we cannot prevent them quickly from mingling with the real demonstrators. The administrative ban is therefore the right lever, as it allows for a swift and effective sanction to limit violence. This targeted sanction will not prevent any person, including any yellow vest, from going to protest: the ban targets only about fifty or a hundred well-known individuals belonging to extremist groups that systematically participate in demonstrations to break. This sanction is appropriate in that it protects rights. Any person who is prohibited from protesting may immediately appeal to the administrative judge for the annulment of his ban on protest. A time limit is provided for notification of the prohibition to take place at least 48 hours before the start of the demonstration, so as to enable the judge of the stay to decide. We will have an opportunity to discuss this during the discussion of the amendment tabled by the Government. I would also like to refer to the wording of article 3 as amended, as it gives rise to a lot of confusion. It is not a question of giving up anyone who comes to protest, and that will never be the case. It is in fact a matter of identifying, within the list of wanted persons, those who are very violent and prohibited from protesting. This measure, which will facilitate the work of the law enforcement agencies, will also apply only during the time of the ban on demonstrations. Madam rapporteur, the amendment that you have tabled in connection with the Government also makes it possible to place this file in a system that is perfectly supervised and accessible to all police officers and gendarmes. The other articles reinforce sanctions against ultra-violent persons. Dissimulating his face when demonstrations degenerate becomes a crime, because we are too often faced with people who hide so that they are not apprehended. We also create the principle of breaker-pays. The merchants and the French have had enough! The person who degrades, breaks or vandalizes must be held responsible for his or her actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u4	What if they're not solvent?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u5	These articles therefore send a clear message of zero tolerance for violence. Ladies and gentlemen, we had to act: to act against the violence, against the bullies, to act for the security of all the French, for the security of the police, the demonstrators and the traders. This text gives us the means to protect demonstrators, traders, cities and our security forces. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to each of you: let us not miss this meeting with those who commit themselves every Saturday to defend the values of the Republic and who will never retreat when their leaders, whatever they may be, ask them to protect it. Let us not miss this opportunity to live up to their commitment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u6	Mrs Alice Thourot, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u7	The bill we are considering is not and should not become a piece of legislation. Nor is it a response to the crisis raised by the yellow vests. The conditions for its tabling and consideration by the Senate bear witness to this, as the proposal was tabled and considered in the fall. The answers to the problems highlighted by the yellow vests will come after the completion of the national debate launched by the President of the Republic. In the meantime, the State has not remained inactive, since Parliament already passed the Economic and Social Emergency Measures Act in December. Why, then, should we debate today a text aimed at preventing violence during demonstrations and punishing their perpetrators?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u8	Because the Prime Minister has decided!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u9	Because no one can ignore the profound and lasting transformation of the conditions for the exercise of the freedom to demonstrate in our country, from the demonstrations of opposition at the airport of Notre-Dame-des-Landes in 2014 to those, unpublished in their form, yellow vests, and the contestation of the labour law in 2016. Everyone here remembers the serious violence that, last year, prevented the May 1 demonstration in Paris, and those, unfortunately even more recent, on Saturday, December 1. These parades were marked by unbearable acts of violence and vandalism, against symbols of the Republic, shops, law enforcement, and even, against the Arc de Triomphe and the grave of the unknown soldier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u11	That is why we had to seize the opportunity given by this bill from the Senate majority, proof of our willingness to overcome partisan divisions on this and other issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u12	You emptied it of its substance, to make it a law of chatter!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u13	The opposition to the right of this House may accuse us of having emptied this bill of its substance. The other opposition, on the left, may blame us for wanting to prevent the French from demonstrating freely. That's not the case. Our objective is to guarantee the freedom to manifest while maintaining public order, in accordance with the spirit and letter of article 10 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights. I would like to recall here the spirit of responsibility and operational efficiency for our law enforcement agencies, which guided my work as rapporteur, and which led the Committee on Laws to amend certain provisions, in order to arrive at a balanced text. I thank him for that. The text found the right balance between the maintenance of public order and the guarantee of demonstration. I pursued only one goal: to increase the safety of all, demonstrators, police and gendarmes alike. I solemnly mean that every injured citizen, whether in the exercise of his freedom of expression or in his mission of maintaining order, is too wounded in our democracy. This text has a target, we claim: the breakers, the attackers, the "black blocks". The climate of violence that they create tends the situation, causes injuries, threatens lives. We want them to be banned from our streets and demonstrations. On the first two articles, introducing scopes of control during demonstrations and an administrative ban on demonstrations, the Committee adopted a precautionary position, which led it to delete Article 1 and to make no amendments to Article 2 pending other arrangements, which could bring real added value to existing law and better guarantee fundamental rights. After intensive and fruitful discussions with the Government – I would like to thank Christophe Castaner, Minister of the Interior, for this work carried out together – we will present you with amendments to this effect, which I am sure will bring your conviction. In section 3, the commission ruled out the creation of a new file, proposed by the Senate. The inclusion of bans on demonstrations in the current register of wanted persons allows us to move faster, since no implementing legislation is necessary and we are sure that fundamental rights are respected. It also simplifies the system for law enforcement officials, who have access to the file of wanted persons from their NEO tablet, which they know well. The committee has also provided for specific arrangements for the Parliament to evaluate the administrative measures created by Chapter I of this bill: this is the subject of Article 3a. Furthermore, it has substantially changed the criminal aspect of this text, not to empty it of its substance, as I have heard, but only in the interests of ensuring its proportionality and of retaining only useful mechanisms in relation to what is already permitted by existing law. These objectives led him to narrow down, in Article 4, the new offence of concealment of the face during a demonstration, the definition of which could not remain the same as that of the current violation without ignoring our fundamental principles. In Article 6, the Commission has changed the content and scope of the supplementary prohibition sentence, which may apply to a greater number of offences than today. Article 5, which referred to conduct already covered by existing law, was deleted. In addition, in Article 7, the commission specified the procedure for the exercise by the State of its remedy in respect of civil liability for damage caused during a demonstration. Finally, other provisions have been added to encourage event organizers to make their declaration – this is the subject of the simplification measure provided for in Article 1e r A – or to strengthen the control of alleged offenders during demonstrations, the time they are tried – is Article 6a on judicial review. These provisions will enable the administrative authority to better accompany and protect persons wishing to exercise their fundamental right to demonstrate peacefully, a right which they cannot be deprived of because of the behaviour of a radical minority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will have the opportunity to deepen the debate during the examination of each article and, I hope, to reach the widest possible consensus in this House in order to combat violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u14	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u15	The bill we are discussing, adopted by the Senate, was introduced as a proposal to prevent and punish violence during demonstrations. Even as amended by the Law Committee of our Assembly, which is competent to examine its substance, it raises two major questions: is it necessary to prevent and deter violence committed by individuals in demonstrations? Does it present the risk of being used beyond what is presented as its object, and of discouraging many peaceful demonstrators from participating in demonstrations? These are the two questions that I will try to answer in this speech. This exercise requires a double preliminary reminder. The first point is that the right to demonstrate constitutes a fundamental freedom, even if it requests to be accompanied. This right to demonstrate is guaranteed by article 10 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which stipulates that the right to demonstrate may only be exercised if it does not violate public security and order. This notion of public policy is broad, and can be subject to interpretation. From the outset, therefore, there is a need to strike a balance between freedom and its supervision. Let us make it clear that the right to demonstrate cannot be subject to prior authorization, which does not preclude a framework to be respected. In this way, States may establish a system of prior declaration or notification to facilitate the exercise of this right by allowing authorities to take measures to ensure public order. This is the case in France. The words are important: if a demonstration can be banned by the authorities on specific grounds, talking about "authorized demonstration" is an abuse of language. In addition, we already have a framework, possibly dissuasive and effectively repressive, which first involves a prior declaration procedure. According to the provisions of the Code of Internal Security, any demonstration leading to the occupation of the public road implies a prior declaration to the competent authorities – mayor or prefect –, at least three free days and 15 free days at the latest before the date of the demonstration, or even two months before, in Paris. The request is then investigated by the public authorities, which ensure that the event takes place in accordance with public order, in particular with regard to the presence of relief services, the necessary insurance, the security of goods and persons. The competent authorities then issue an authorisation to the organiser of the event, which may involve obligations relating to journeys or timetables. The prohibition of demonstrations can only be justified by respect for public order. Thus, taking into account the imperatives of public tranquility, a nocturnal event will not be allowed. In our law, organizing a public demonstration without authorization is punishable by six months' imprisonment and a fine of 7,500 euros, in accordance with article 431-9 of the Criminal Code. I recall here that in 2016, police officers who protested spontaneously violated the administrative formalities required for the organisation of their own demonstrations. There are also legal measures of a dissuasive nature against breakers. With regard to recent demonstrations, a number of circulars and instructions have already been issued to the police. Participation in a grouping for the purpose of preparing for voluntary violence, destruction or degradation is covered by article 222-14-2 of the Criminal Code. The text makes it possible to prosecute and incriminate persons, as well as to detain individuals, before the demonstration. On 8 December, the public prosecutors were urged to issue requests for identity checks at departure stations to Paris, motorway toll stations on routes serving Paris, and trains to the capital. In this context, the department's dispatch insisted that police officers conducting these checks did not have to justify suspicions or identify risks of harm to public order. The police could check the identity and search the person's vehicle. And if they discovered objects by licit nature – tools, petanque balls, bolts, other projectable materials, pool glasses, aerosols – a custody was possible, and even encouraged, according to the circular, if there were indications of a move for a demonstration. In this case, the presence of a yellow vest, however mandatory in any vehicle, was sufficient. Thus, the bill is only a vague text, which creates a risk to freedom and involves means that have not been considered. Article 1, which was intended to confer on the administrative authority the power to authorize the internal security forces to make palpations of persons at the entrance and within the perimeter of a demonstration, has been removed by the committee on the laws of our assembly. Such a provision required a very strong and continuous mobilization of the security forces. That is why we have so much insisted in committee on the question of the necessary human resources. What seems easy on paper would have been almost impossible on the ground. Article 2, which the Law Commission has maintained, provides for the possibility of imposing administrative prohibitions on individuals who may represent a threat of particular gravity to public order, including, where appropriate, an obligation to score in a police station or gendarmerie. This prohibition, which will be carried out without the supervision of the judicial judge, may apply to any person belonging to a group or having regular relations with individuals who incite, participate in or facilitate the commission of criminal acts. This is nothing but a presumption of guilt by association. Thus, the administrative authority may prohibit a person from protesting, simply on the basis of his or her association, deemed bad by the police. While the minister said that the measure could affect a few hundred people, we could actually reach thousands of people. I do not insist, again, on the mobilisation of the police forces who will have to organise such controls. Today, we do not have sufficient resources to carry out this mission. As such, we have sent you two requests during the debates in committee. The first was to have access to the Commission's conclusions, which were delivered on 15 January. We also wanted to know in detail the state of the human resources of the security forces. Article 3 established a national register of persons prohibited from demonstrating. However, under the rule of law, persons sentenced to a complementary sentence of protest are already registered in the treatment of criminal history – TAJ – as well as in the file of wanted persons – FPR. The article, as amended by the committee, now provides for a registration on the register of persons sought. As a reminder, since November 2015, 639 individual protest ban measures have been taken, including 21 in the context of COP21-related demonstrations, and 574 in the context of anti-labour protests. Finally, article 4 reinforces the punishment of the offence of wilful concealment of the face in circumstances that cause public disorder to be feared. Currently punished with a fifth-class offence, it is transformed into an offence punishable by one year's imprisonment and a fine of 15,000 euros. This change would make it possible to arrest and detain, but the existing system already allows it. In short, this bill will not do anything that cannot already be done, but it can harm freedom tomorrow. Two questions were asked: does it bring anything to prevent the violence of a few breakers? There is room for doubt. The effectiveness of criminal repression is based on deterrence, i.e. the risk of being prevented and punished, not on an administrative system based on prohibitions which, moreover, involve the ever-increasing mobilization of resources which are not extensible. Secondly, does the bill pose a risk to a peaceful social movement, but on the occasion of which some excesses are still to be feared? Yes, this risk exists! It is not a matter of making a trial of intent, but of pointing out the risk of seeing vague legislation used for another purpose. I recall our commitment to the rule of law and to our fundamental freedoms. But, at the same time, we denounce the behaviour of breakers. Here I would like to highlight two features of French-language legislation illustrated by this law. We should draw inspiration from foreign countries, from Germany, for example, which also knows very violent groups but whose doctrine is different. In this regard, Minister, in committee, you have recognized the need to change our doctrine today. As an expression of the Council of State, our legislation is now in a gaseous, unstable state. As I said during the discussion of the bill on programming and reform of justice, we pass criminal laws repeatedly – one author may have said that it was an uninterrupted project, but without an architect and often without the means to match the statements. This text is a matter of legislative pointillism. It is a hasty and unsightly bill to satisfy an opinion that is concerned about violent spillovers. Yet, behind words that are intended to be reassuring, the traditional security forces are constantly being undermined: intelligence reorganized and weakened ten years ago; low number of new RSCs trained: how many will they be in 2019? We are talking about a few dozen in the last promotion, where 1000 are missing – it will take several years to reach this figure, not to mention the vocation crisis; The police's field strategies during demonstrations seem to have been adapted and rethought – as some law enforcement officers say – which also requires the organization. Second and final observation – I will not use the thirty minutes that are given to me, my aim is not to exhaust my speaking time but to speak of the substance – if the restoration of order is a political niche for any majority, an asymmetrical and insufficiently thought-out criminal response cannot guarantee this return to order. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] These are the reasons – the existing criminal arsenal and the fears for fundamental freedoms that we have always defended – that lead me, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to request the prior rejection of this proposal. I call on the Government, the majority and the Assembly as a whole to work differently, taking the time to adopt a text if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u16	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u17	Out of respect for the speaker and in view of the concerns she expressed, I come back to a few issues – we will have the opportunity to address others during the debate. With regard to the doctrine of employment, I have announced the intention of the Ministry of the Interior to review it. I proposed to come, when the time comes – we are currently managing a few tensions – before the Law Committee when we have refined the new doctrine, because it seems to me important to know your gaze before it is finally stopped. We will also seek the views of all the social partners in the Ministry of the Interior who have clear experience. Then, yes, the mobilization of forces is important, but do not see an additional workload in this text. I am firmly convinced – this is also the case of our interlocutors in the Ministry of the Interior; I attended two hours ago the wishes of the Alliance union that called for voting on this text, for example –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u18	They're the only ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u19	...that this text will allow us to mobilize our forces less and to concentrate their action on the tasks of maintaining conventional public order and not of managing a violent crisis when bullies come to break. I do not share the view that this bill will do nothing that cannot already be done. In order to prohibit the presence of the ultras we know – which, for some of them, made the headlines of great weeklies but could, the following week, continue to demonstrate – it is essential that these actors can be the subject of an administrative decision, which is subject to the supervision of the judge. We need to act on them. You mentioned "some overflows" that are still to be feared. What we experienced on May 1st, the previous two years, is not a few overflows. Such actions constitute a threat to the fundamental right to demonstrate. Before speaking in the twenty-hour news, the Prime Minister called all the leaders of the major French trade union organizations to present this mechanism. I have not heard any particular opposition from them because the major issue, they are aware, is the guarantee of the right to demonstrate. They also know that there is no question for me today of presenting you with a text that would be in any way liberticide. Finally, for the past four years, it has been decided to increase the strength of the police, gendarmerie and intelligence, but not of the mobile forces. The current Government had not included mobile force positions in its 10000-job recruitment plan. The necessary revision of our doctrine will, I think, have to be based on additional recruitment in the gendarmerie squadrons and in the CRS. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are mature enough today – we can rely on the in-depth work of senators who will continue after reading in the House – for the adoption of this text. So we can start looking at it immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u20	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Remy Rebeyrotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u21	The La République en marche group will naturally reject this motion. We must put an end to this violence: it is a sentence that is today in the mouth of many French, but also in the mouth of many of us, regardless of the bench on which we sit. She comes back repeatedly on all trays. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on certain benches of the MODEM group. -Mr. Thierry Benoit and Mr. Dino Cinieri also applaud]] This violence is that of the breakers the law enforcement forces are trying to stop. We want to pay tribute here to the resilience, mastery, efficiency and professionalism of the law enforcement agencies that operate under extremely difficult conditions. The bill adopted by the commission is a balanced text that guarantees the freedom to demonstrate and fight against breakers who, in fact, question this freedom, because it is possible only in accordance with public order. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the basis of the text adopted by the Senate in October, legislative work, although rapid but important, was carried out. We wanted to avoid the display effects in order to join our efforts and seek the effectiveness and operationality of the device. Efficiency is not the new perimeters, nor the new files, but rather the anticipation, knowledge of breakers, prevention and mobility of our law enforcement forces to adapt to the reality of times. We are adapting to it and we wish to combat it in practice. That is why we reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u22	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u23	The Republicans are the first force of parliamentary opposition, but also a force of proposal. It is in this spirit that in the Senate, at the initiative of Bruno Retailleau, we proposed this text, which is not a legislative cathedral but a set of provisions useful both to respect the constitutional freedom of demonstration and to better equip the officials of the national police, the military of the national gendarmerie and the members of the prefectural corps who must, on the ground, manage these demonstrations. Of course, we are going to vote against the rejection motion put forward by the Socialist opposition. We want the discussion to come to an end. However, we will be very vigilant that this bill is useful. This should not be a display or smoke exercise. It must not be just a few minutes in the twenty-hour newspaper for the Prime Minister. It must be a useful text...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u24	And effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u25	...for the police, the gendarmes and the prefects. In particular, we want the administrative ban on demonstrations to be consolidated. It is an instrument that can be useful provided that it is properly framed. We are also committed to ensuring that other articles, such as those relating to data processing, are not denatured by the macroist majority. In this regard, I must say, as a member of the Law Commission, my concern. Last week's debates have caused us concern because we have seen many disagreements within this composite macronist majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u26	Don't worry about us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We would not like you to have a little unnecessary text at the end of your debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u28	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u29	I am very sensitive to what you have said, Mrs Karamanli, and I hear what you are saying, Mr Larrivée. However, I do not believe that the conditions for the adoption of this motion of prior rejection are met. Indeed, you have not shown us how constitutional provisions would be violated by the text that we are going to examine, nor do I consider that there is no need to deliberate. On the contrary, as we have all said, we must be reactive. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] On the other hand, we are not sectarian: I believe that the text voted in the Senate, on the initiative of Mr.Retailleau, includes interesting provisions, which must be discussed and, if necessary, framed. That is why we want this text to be debated. We need it, and it is demanded of us. The MODEM Group will therefore vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u30	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u31	This bill is a manifestation of drift. In many respects, it makes the generalization of the provisions of the state of emergency or the introduction of provisions in the ordinary law that are reserved for the fight against terrorism. By the very admission of the senator responsible for this text for the moving Republic group, it still presents high risks for individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u32	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u33	[[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] The Socialist and Related Group therefore calls for the prior rejection of this text, because of its unconstitutional nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u34	What a conviction...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u35	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u36	Like many colleagues, the IUD Group, Action and Independents, shares your desire to reach a law, Minister. We will not therefore vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, although we believe that several of the issues raised by Mrs Karamanli are important. For our part, as we have said in committee, we want this text to be applicable. However, a number of shaded areas remain. In addition, we stayed a little on our hunger in committee – I will come back to that earlier when we considered the motion for referral. The way in which this House works is still not satisfactory: the amendment to delete Article 1e r tabled at the last minute by the rapporteur prevented us from debating this article. We are often prevented from going to the bottom of things. This text is important. We, too, want to end the breakers, but we really want to end them. The worst thing would be that this text is simply an announcement effect, that there is hope that does not lead to anything. The UDI Group, Action and Independents will vote against this rejection motion because we want to get into the debate and we really want to achieve a result. At this stage, we have not yet had the opportunity to really debate this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u37	We're looking forward to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u38	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u39	[["Ah! » and smiles on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] The La France insoumée group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Of course, I am not surprised, but I, for my part, remain faithful to principles, including the right to demonstrate. Don't laugh: it is nothing more important for a power than to guarantee the right to demonstrate, not to restrict it. This is what you are doing with this text, whether you want it or not. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Firstly, the method is execrable: amendments were tabled at the last moment. And this method, brutal, is in the image of your panic. On such fundamental issues, we should have taken the necessary time. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Secondly, Minister, you are in an authoritarian drift, which only masks your inability to guarantee public order. The chairman of my group and Ugo Bernalicis will remind you of this in detail. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] Your record is terrible, you carry it on your shoulders, especially the number of violence that has affected demonstrators. I'm thinking about the police too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u40	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u41	Mr President, I want to say that the person standing next to me insulted me while I was talking. Any delicacy would have been to keep her quiet. Is rudeness your only argument?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u42	Mr. Corbière...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u43	[[Brouhahaha]] It's starting to do good! I can understand that there are protests, but these are insults that have been uttered next to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u44	Take the lead of your speech, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u45	Go in your place, ma'am, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u46	Please, Mr. Corbière, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u47	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I propose that this colleague go and sit down because she speaks and insults me while I speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u48	She's bothering the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u49	It's bullying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u50	Please, Mr. Corbière...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u51	I ask this colleague to return to her place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u52	She's not even a member of parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u53	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Everything is there: you are in an authoritarian drift and panic, and the behaviour of your colleague is in the image of what you are doing. I tell you clearly: the right to demonstrate will be restricted. Let's take Article 4...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u54	You have a little time left to speak; I'll leave you up to two thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u55	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I've got enough time, 'cause I've been interrupted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u56	She has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u57	Why doesn't the lady sit down?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u58	Preside, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u59	She's bothering the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u60	Colleagues, there are times when people stand in the Chamber, and that doesn't necessarily offend you. [[Ms. Véronique Riotton, who was standing near Mr. Alexis Corbière, joined the benches of the LaREM group. - "Ah! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ma'am, if you want to sit down, you can do it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The strength of our convictions should not prevent us from showing some serenity in our debates or listening to the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u61	Mr. Could the Gendre introduce a little subtlety into the debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u62	Mr Corbière, I will leave you another 20 seconds to finish your remarks, and then we will move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u63	Thank you, Mr. President, for restoring order. The essential thing has been said and will be repeated by speakers who will have more time to speak. This law will be ineffective in dealing with incidents similar to those that occurred. Legislative arrangements already exist, you will tighten them, and you will ultimately, in the name of your inability to restore order, restrict the right to manifest, which, for an opposition, represents the fundamental right to be heard. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Of course I have a thought for the members of the security forces who have been injured, but I observe that the fourteen people who have been stabbed and the four whose hand has been ripped are forgotten. When he declared that no one would have died because of the intervention of the security forces, the President of the Republic did not even mention this inhabitant of Marseille – a city you must know, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u64	Please conclude, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u65	This shows that this power does not want to see the number of wounded; It's definitely a blind spot. This should indignant us, and it is on this point that we should legislate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u66	Thank you, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... instead of making our citizens believe that we are going to guarantee our fundamental freedoms by tightening legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u68	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u69	What matters to us is to frame, prevent and create conditions so that the victims, that is, the citizens in resistance or, in order to use a vocabulary that should be acceptable to you, in civil disobedience, can express, under suitable conditions, their opposition to the policies that are being carried out. There are indeed breakers, breaking with the Republic, whom you call and which we call the infidels. You know them, we know them. In their words and in their actions, they are identified, and they are organized. You now have the means to remove them from the political field. But you don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u70	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u71	You do not do what is necessary to rule out the inficent, those who violate democratic principles, from real democratic opposition to your policy. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left considers this law to be useless and to be a political sign. Against the current of your proposal,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u72	Please conclude, Mr. Wulfranc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u73	... we call for the consolidation of republican opinion and progress within the Republican police,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u74	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u75	... the conditions guaranteeing the expression of democratic opposition to your policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u76	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u77	The Freedom and Territory Group as a whole unequivocally condemns all forms of violence. We believe, of course, that unacceptable acts committed during the demonstrations of the yellow vests, which have often been the work of organized breakers, must be punished with the utmost firmness. I have a thought for the injured demonstrators as well as for the police, who are now forced to carry out their mission in a particularly tense context. Appeasement must be the first objective. While we unanimously condemn the violence that occurred during the demonstrations of yellow vests, a majority of Members of the Freedom and Territory Group do not believe that it is necessary to adopt a new law to prevent and punish such violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u79	The text you are proposing to us today is useless and risky.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u80	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u81	It could even call into question the public freedoms, to which we are viscerally attached, as the name of our group shows. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] It is useless, first of all, because we believe that the existing law already permits action, provided that appropriate human and financial resources accompany our legal arsenal. It is risky, then, because the provisions that you propose to adopt could have the effect of arbitrarily restricting the scope of public freedoms in our country and of bringing emergency measures into our common law. That is why this motion to reject will receive the support of a large part of the Members of our group. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] Last fall, during the consideration of this bill in the Senate, your majority denounced mechanisms that posed "serious difficulties" and that "impaired the constitutional rights and freedoms". It even clarified that the text posed "high risks to individual freedoms". We therefore ask you to be consistent and not to ignore the demands of individual freedom, freedom to come and go and the right to collective expression of ideas and opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u82	On the motion of prior rejection, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I would ask interested parties to try to anticipate requests for public ballots, since you know that it is necessary to allow a few minutes between the announcement of the vote and the vote. I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u83	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 144 Number of votes cast 144 Absolute majority 73 For adoption 21 Against 123
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u84	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u85	Mr. Minister of the Interior, a few moments ago, we were together in the wishes of one of the main police unions in our country, the Alliance Union, whose Secretary General called us to be responsible for this text, in the context of violence against the police. It is with this spirit of responsibility that the Republicans group is addressing the bill, which, I would remind you, comes from our colleagues in the Senate Republicans Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u86	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u87	We will do so with the will to constantly provide concrete, pragmatic answers, expressing the will of national representation to protect those who protect us, to ensure that our police officers, gendarmes and firefighters enjoy the protections they need in a context of extreme tension. For the past two months, our country has experienced very strong violence. The balance sheet is heavy, very heavy, too heavy: 11 dead, 1,800 wounded among demonstrators and 1,000 wounded among law enforcement officials. Never in the metropolis, since the events in Algeria, we had not had to deplore such a heavy record. This one calls for a reaction from us and, from yours, answers. There are questions that you will have to answer, particularly about the fluctuating policing strategy, which you have been following since November 17th and which the police have often not understood: every weekend, orders and controversies have deconstructed successively the decisions you made the previous weekend. In the face of this situation, you have agreed, as we have been asking you for several months, to use the bill that was tabled and defended by the president of the Republicans in the Senate group, Bruno Retailleau. We welcome this approach, and of course we want it to be completed, but unfortunately we have doubts about it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, we want the Senate's bill, which is relevant, pragmatic and includes effective measures, to be adopted in the same terms as in the Senate. Because we are concerned, we ask you to refer this text back to committee for a brief examination. Our debate is taking place under unprecedented conditions – I would like to stress this – given the seriousness of the context we are facing. Earlier, I quoted some numbers. I recalled the increasing violence in many cities in France and every Saturday in our capital. Of course, Minister, this is not a new situation. I'm very happy to give it to you. In fact, the Senate's bill – which, in a sense, brings into force the 1970 anti-casseurs law approved by the government of Jacques Chaban-Delmas – responds to the events of May 1, 2018, when one had seen a wave of violence not contained in the streets of Paris. But I could also recall the protests against COP21 in 2015 or this terrifying image, in May 2016, of a police car burned with its crew, which almost got charred, or the ransacks committed against the Necker Children's Hospital, in June 2016, on the sidelines of the protests against the labour law. More and more frequently, we are witnessing an increase in violence by groups of determined, organized and radicalized individuals. In this context, of course, we consider your decision to consider the relevant Senators' bill. It is indeed urgent, Mr Minister, and I believe that we can all find ourselves on this point – this is at least the will of our group – to restore the republican order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So far, you have been unable to do so. We now call for security to return to our streets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u90	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u91	We say this very clearly: manifesting is a fundamental freedom guaranteed by our institutions, by the European Convention on Human Rights and by the Declaration on the Rights of Man and of the Citizen referred to in the preamble to the Constitution. But, if demonstration is a right, there is no justification or justification for violence against law enforcement officials, the degradation of the symbols of the Republic – such as those that occurred at the Arc de Triomphe – or the destruction of shops in the territory of the Republic. Today, we want concrete answers to be implemented. We are aiming for three objectives, and we want them to be there when the text is voted on. At this stage, the Republican Group wishes to adopt it. We also want more protective provisions to be adopted. Finally, we want you to hear our proposals, without deconstructing what was built by our honourable senators with great relevance and efficiency. What we are asking for is clear: we want to restore republican order. We also want, and perhaps above all, to protect those who protect us, because we owe them recognition and protection. Police officers, gendarmes and firefighters are admirable daily in courage. For months, years, they have been confronted with an unacceptable situation of violence. They are on all fronts, faced with the threat of Islamist terrorism, in the face of migratory pressure, in the face of the violence of everyday life and now in the face of these demonstrations. So, yes, we must all, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope, unanimously, express to our police officers, gendarmes, firefighters a recognition that must be realized, not by words, but by deeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is our duty that this text be supported, that it be solid, that it have real content, that it turn away from the messages of communication which, unfortunately, Minister, you are customary. We want a concrete text, not a communication law. We also want – I think it is important to stress this because we are all equally committed to it – that freedom to manifest remains an essential right. We want to be able to guarantee tomorrow the freedom to demonstrate safely. The often legitimate social demands expressed in demonstrations must no longer be undermined by violence that has no place in the streets of our country. The aim of the proposed law is to strengthen our legislation in order to adapt it to the modes of action of individuals organized in ultraviolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u95	Our duty is to refuse that the Republic be enslaved by those who use demonstrations to break, to loot, to assault. That was precisely the purpose of the proposed law to prevent and punish demonstrations. Unfortunately, we can only note – and I sincerely regret it – that the original text was largely emptied of its substance when it was examined by the Law Committee. However, a number of fundamental articles were simply deleted, including article 1, which gave the prefect the possibility of prompting control of the personal effects of passers-by within the perimeter or at the immediate vicinity of a demonstration, where there were risks of serious disturbances to public order. It was, with a few differences, an extension of the security perimeters created by law to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism – SILT. The rapporteur had tabled an amendment for the meeting to completely rewrite the article, an amendment which the Government had under-amended. We are no longer there, and that is why we denounce the state of unpreparedness of the text presented by the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u96	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u97	In view of this abnormal situation, we demand that the Committee on Laws take up these fundamental amendments, which tend to rewrite almost completely the text, amendments which it did not know about when it worked, of which you, Mr.Minister, when we heard from you at length – which I thank you, since you answered all our questions – you had never spoken to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u98	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u99	What a disrespect for Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u100	Given the importance of the subject, Madam Chair, it is essential that the committee meet again very quickly...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u101	The president never wants to meet the committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u102	... in order to examine in depth the device – far from being annoyed – that is presented to us tonight. In the same way – and here again, ladies and gentlemen, we must deplore this, because these are not acceptable working conditions in this House – the committee has deleted Article 3 of the Senate bill, which provided for the creation of a national register listing all the measures prohibiting demonstrations. It was, you will agree, an essential provision. The Prime Minister had argued in the TF1 twenty-hour newspaper about its usefulness, relevance and effectiveness. But, after the time of communication, we arrive in the Chamber to learn that this provision is deleted, scratched, swept away with a back of hand. That's not acceptable! Instead of this roster, the Commission simply provided that the additional sentences of judicial prohibition – not administrative – to participate in a demonstration would be included in a particular section of the wanted list, the RPF. The creation of a national register of all the measures to ban demonstrations is, however, essential – as you know, Minister, since you supported it – to prevent some from taking advantage of demonstrations to break, burn, loot and challenge the institutions of our Republic. We have tabled an amendment to reinstate clause 3 in the wording adopted by the Senate. Finally, you removed Article 5, which extended the offence of participation in a public event or meeting by carrying a weapon. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Laws has removed half of the operational articles contained in the Senate text, without our knowledge of the alternative arrangements that you are proposing to us tonight, and which are sometimes submitted to us a few minutes before the debate. Your majority – we regret it – did not just delete half of the articles in the bill; Unfortunately, it has also emptied the remaining provisions of its substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u103	She distorted the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u104	Thus, you have greatly diminished the scope of the new offence of voluntary concealment of the face in a demonstration. Again, it is an essential subject, because concealing his face in a manifestation is naturally associated with a design far removed from angelism or good intentions. When we are going to protest masked, we are about to commit a crime, an offence, to break, to assault the police.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u106	These practices must therefore be prohibited, with truly dissuasive legal weapons. At the moment, as you know, the cover-up of the face is only a violation of the fifth class. It was planned to transform it into an offence punishable by one year's imprisonment and a fine of 15,000 euros. I myself tabled a bill to that effect in May 2018, co-signed by many of you. Proof of the usefulness of this measure, of the 1200 individuals who ransacked Paris on 1 May 2018, less than a hundred – all masked – were brought before the courts, and the rate of relaxation was much higher than the usual level, due to the lack of adequate legal tools. However, according to your amendments, the rapporteur, and according to those of the majority group, for a person to be condemned, it will no longer be enough for her to wear a hood; It will have to be clearly intended to commit violence. As you know, the demonstration of an individual intention to commit violence is, in fact, almost impossible to prove.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u107	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u108	Do you really think that well-intentioned individuals would go to a demonstration?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u109	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u110	Clearly, no: only demonstrators who intend to engage in violent actions have an interest in not being able to be recognized. In order to restore its operational effectiveness to this measure, we have tabled an amendment which, again, is intended to restore the version adopted by the Senate. I think we should take this legislative vector to go further. We have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that any concealment of the face in public space, even outside the demonstrations, is now punishable by one year's imprisonment and a fine of 15,000 euros. This provision had been sought by Nicolas Sarkozy and had been described as an "antiburqa" law. It was a timely, necessary, courageous measure. Today, we know that, too often, this law is diverted, because the sanction is not sufficiently dissuasive. Let us also express with courage the will of the legislator to punish more heavily those who defy the laws of the Republic, and in particular those relating to secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u112	Similarly, the Government has just tabled amendments to article 2. Guillaume Larrivé recalled earlier that this article is undoubtedly the keystone of the bill. The true legal novelty, the measure offering real legal efficiency, is contained in this article. It is a matter of authorizing an administrative ban on demonstrations against persons previously identified, known to our police and intelligence services, against the breakers you know, Minister, as you told us in committee. You mentioned the number of a few hundred people, which seems very small to us, but, at the very least, you acknowledged that these breakers were identified: we are talking about the "black blocks", the far-right activists well known to the services. They must be prohibited from demonstrating: this is the essential point of this text. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The purpose of this article is to allow prefects to pronounce, against any person likely to represent a "threat of particular gravity to public order", the prohibition of participation in a demonstration. While this measure was adopted without amendment by the Law Commission, today, at 10 a.m., the Government tabled a comprehensive rewrite of this article. Given the importance of this topic to the safety of property and people, it is unthinkable that the Law Commission should not meet to study it properly and seriously. Finally, in the Committee on Laws, members of the majority have largely forced Article 6, which was intended to strengthen and extend the supplementary penalty of prohibition of demonstrations. Again, you have tabled an amendment on this article without the Law Committee having been able to decide on its opportunity. In other words, the measures contained in the original bill have been detrigued, and – as we solemnly say to you – this text is like an additional false appearance, which will not allow us to face the radicalization of the contestative mobilities. Once again, the announcement of firmness seems to be reduced to a communication effect. Mr Minister, in addition to the operational weakness of the text, as you propose to us, we deeply and solemnly regret the absence of measures to protect the security forces. It's a crucial point for us. I want to say again: this text is part of a context of unrivalled ras-le-bol, of anger, of malaise, of ill-being of our forces of law and order. During your hearing, Minister, you paid tribute to their work – you did it again before the Alliance National Police union. Of course, you're right. We all agree to express this recognition of the nation with regard to our forces of law and order. However, words are no longer enough for them: they are waiting for action. Police officers and gendarmes perform their duties under often unacceptable conditions. The strenuous pace of work breaks family life, the equipment is outdated, and the premises are too often dilapidated. At the same time, the climate of insecurity is growing. Today, the uniform, symbol of the legal and republican authority, no longer protects: too often it puts the police at risk of becoming targets and exposes those who wear it. The figures are eloquent, you know them: every day, twenty-one police officers and gendarmes are injured on an operational mission. The suicide rate among law enforcement officials is much higher than among the population as a whole. Since January 1, 2019, eleven police officers have committed suicide. These figures are unprecedented and, by their magnitude, are extremely serious. Minister, you must take this tragedy, this situation, to give these men and women concrete answers. As you know, the finding is just as alarming for firefighters, who have been experiencing an increase in the number of attacks since 2008 by more than 150%. This situation is also unbearable. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We have therefore tabled amendments aimed at strengthening the sanctions applicable to those who would attack those who protect us, often at the risk of their lives. In this debate, we intend to be a force for proposals. Our support is for the strengthening of relevant legislation, but we also ask you, Minister, to listen, for once, to the opposition, to show constructive openness. If the proposals from our benches have often been heard in the past by your predecessors, you have so far refused to listen to them. Tonight, we are making concrete proposals to you. First, we propose to re-establish the minimum penalties for crimes and offences committed against gendarmes, police officers or firefighters. These penalties, which were abolished by Mr Hollande, are the translation of an effective precautionary principle to protect victims. It's a device that's proven its worth. We propose to re-establish them against individuals who attack all the custodians of public authority, and a minima against those who attack policemen, gendarmes or firefighters. In addition, we have tabled amendments to ensure that the maximum penalty for deprivation of liberty is raised for all crimes and offences committed against a gendarmerie, police officer or firefighter. Admittedly, aggravating circumstances are already provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Nevertheless, we ask you to generalize the worsening of sentences. While the increase in the maximum penalty is provided for in the Criminal Code, in particular for crimes and offences committed on the basis of sex, sexual orientation or membership of an alleged race or religion, there is no justification for such enhanced protection mechanisms not to apply to law enforcement or firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u114	Those who take advantage of the emotional context of certain demonstrations in order to attack the forces of law and order cross a red line and must be punished in line with the transgression they commit against our Republic. We all feel, regardless of our political affiliation, deep respect for the men and women who provide our protection on a daily basis, often at the expense of their own security and, sometimes, their own lives. I therefore hope that we will all be able to come together on the basis of the proposals we are making to improve their protection. Ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today will not achieve its objectives, because its economy has been upset by the constant search for a political compromise between the different tendencies of your majority, because it has been misled by internal political calculations by the majority. The safety of the French and those who protect us deserves better than these calculations, these backyard negotiations. In addition, due to the very late submission of several amendments by the Government, the rapporteur and the majority, the Law Commission was unable to proceed with their consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u115	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u116	She was unable to do her job in good conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why we invite you to vote on this motion for referral back to committee. We do so to strengthen this text, we do so to restore republican order and we do so to protect those who protect us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u117	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u118	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote, Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u119	The La République group on the move will obviously vote against the motion for referral to committee, which has just been put forward by the Republican Group. I will answer that without any controversy, because, in Mr Ciotti's words, I prefer to retain the points of convergence. There is one, essential, which I believe can gather widely on these benches: we must equip the law enforcement forces with the means to defend themselves, to defend the demonstrators and, beyond that, to defend the right to demonstrate in France. That is the crucial point of our debate. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Ciotti tells us there's an emergency: yes, there's an emergency! For, for the past two months, our country has been living in a state of insecurity that is truly unbearable: unbearable for our fellow citizens and unbearable for the forces of law and order, deeply exhausted. But then, Mr Ciotti, if there is an urgent need, why delay consideration of this text? You say you didn't get to know it completely. This is incorrect: for half an hour, you have fully detailed all the features of this text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u120	We mustn't confuse speed with precipitation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u121	... either to approve them, or to challenge them, or to propose the addition of other provisions. This is proof that, at the beginning of this debate, we have all the knowledge we need to have an article-by-article discussion. Of course, on this occasion you will have every opportunity to challenge, amend or enrich the text, but under no circumstances can we pretend to ignore its content, its objectives and its philosophy. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, you say that we have detrigued this text: it is incorrect, you know perfectly well that in many cases we have made it more operational, therefore more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u122	Time's up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u123	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, your amendments want to change it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u124	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u125	I hope that my explanation of vote will shed light on my colleague Le Gendre's lantern. If this text did not address such a serious issue, your introductory speech, Minister, would be laughable. Indeed, I remind you that in October 2018, you issued an unfavorable opinion on this Senate bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u126	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u127	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u128	... which was adopted despite the opposition of the Senators of the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u129	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u130	You're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u131	But you have been confronted with the realities, minister, the demonstrations every week, the breakers, who respect nothing, and you have suffered for twelve weeks. And now you are holding another speech: after the Prime Minister on 7 January, you, in turn, advocate firmness and have reiterated this new position today. But you apply your theory of "at the same time" and push it to its climax, relying on this text of the Senate, a right-wing text, while taking care to denature it by deleting half of the articles and substantially modifying the other half. You hide behind a reassuring title for the French, but you deceive them, letting lukewarm water flow into the veins of this narrow bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, this text, which deals with a real subject, must be reconsidered, and the Republican Group will therefore vote on this motion for referral back to committee, which seems to me to be inspired by wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u132	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u133	In fact, many things unite us tonight, since we are all asking for a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u134	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u135	Of course, we would still like to have more time to fine-tune the text and study the amendments and sub-amendments that come a little late, but we know how to work in urgency and tension! The current situation is not new, since your friends in the Senate, my dear colleagues in the Republican Group, have been working on this text for a long time. We have already been able to feed our interventions and sharpen our arguments, and we will continue to do so as part of the parliamentary shuttle. All the interventions that have taken place so far show how much we have studied this text and how much we are...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u136	Amateurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u137	... equipped and armed to defend the amendments that have been tabled. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] We must act without delay: that is why the MODEM Group will reject the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u138	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u139	I almost wanted to remain silent after Mrs Vichnievsky's speech, who has just rightly told us how chaotic the debate in committee was, and how much knowledge and precision was lacking in this matter. The Republicans, with a text they built, drafted and drafted in the Senate, had time to become familiar with his philosophy, but, Mrs Vichnievsky, there are not only Republicans in this Chamber. There are also socialists. There are even former socialists, Mr Ciotti, who now sit on the benches of La République en marche...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u140	There's even a lot of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u141	... and who would never have accepted such a text before 2017. There are even socialists, Mr Ciotti, who sit on the benches of La République en marche and who were much more left-wing than many of us to report attacks on property and people, during demonstrations that took place between 2012 and 2017. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Madam chairman of the committee, I know that you do not like to meet the committee at the request of the Socialist and related group, as you have shown on the occasion of the Benalla case. But if you would accept the invitation of the other groups, we would be very happy to do so. We heard Mr Ciotti recall that, on Article 1, we would have before us an amendment by the rapporteur, under-amended by the Government, without ever having been able to debate it in the Law Committee. Similarly, we will discover amendments to other articles, without having been able to confront our arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u142	We must conclude, Mr. Habib!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u143	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on the benches of the Socialist and related groups]] Let me finish my remarks, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u144	No, you will have many other opportunities to speak, dear colleague. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u145	The IUD, Act and Independents Group will vote on the motion for referral to committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u146	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u147	... because it is wrong to say that we have studied this text. We didn't study it. As I said earlier, the deletion of Rule 1e in committee has brought down all the amendments to this Article, which have therefore not been discussed. President Le Gendre explains that we can amend it in a public session: I am sorry to tell you, Mr.President, but we can no longer amend it in the sitting, we can at best amend it slightly. The deadline for tabling amendments was seventeen hours last Friday. The rapporteur's amendments were tabled at 16.00 and fifty-six minutes: is this a way of working?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u148	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u149	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u150	We had been working on amendments, all of which fell at once. Worse, we received the Government's amendments this morning at 11 a.m. At that time, however, we were in a group meeting to determine our positions, but we did not even know the Government's amendments. These are not ways of working.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u151	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u152	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] You are right to say that this text is important, but it is because it is important that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should deal with it. We will vote on this motion to refer it back to committee. These are not ways of working: if we want to respect Parliament, we must respect it to the end. The message that the French send us is to study and debate the subjects, but we are doing exactly the opposite. Parliament deserves a more important place, you are making a complete mistake. Almost all the groups want to vote for this text, but in the end no one is happy because this text will not be useful. You will be responsible for this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u153	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u154	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] In spite of Mr Ciotti's arguments, which I do not agree with, the La France insoumée group will vote on the motion for referral back to committee. First of all, because there was no debate in committee, but an expeditious passage with deletions of articles, rewritten today at thirteen, fourteen or fifteen hours. Dear colleague Vichnievsky, you have told us that there has been a lot of discussion and that we are all ready to debate this text: I do not doubt you have much discussion in the majority, but remember that the National Assembly has committees and procedures, particularly for tabling amendments. I thought you were more protective of the procedure and its principles, Madam Chair of the Commission. This text will not change the ability of law enforcement officials to interrogate. When a breaker breaks down, he already commits an offence under current law. We can already question him, we can already place him in custody, we can already make him appear immediately...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u155	He can refuse it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...and judge him. This is already possible. You yourself recognized him this morning, Minister, at Jean-Jacques Bourdin's, since you said that the breakers, between one hundred and fifty and three hundred people, were known. Then what are you doing? What do you expect if you know them? [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Are you so incompetent? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Yes, we must refer this text back to committee. It may not be a circumstance, but the Justice Bill, which we have just completed, has a criminal component. Why were the provisions of this bill not included in the Justice Bill? This absence clearly shows that this text is appropriate. Of course it was written in haste. Of course it is sloppy, as it deals with a fundamental freedom, that of demonstrating in a rule of law and a democratic and republican country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u157	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u158	The majority asserts that this is not a law of circumstance, but that the circumstances require us to proceed urgently. Another strange argument is that of the right, which challenges the laws of opportunity or circumstance, while it has made it its trademark under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u159	The last great president we've had!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u160	... these laws proved to be of little use. I agree with the proposal for referral back to committee on at least one point: this text has not been discussed under normal conditions. Although this is a proposal, not a bill, there was nothing to prevent us from seeking an impact assessment – on a piece of legislation that deals with freedoms – that seems to me to be the least we can demand. We could also have sought the opinion of the Council of State. He shall return it a posteriori; It would have been useful to have had it available a priori, in order to avoid the possible invalidation of certain provisions of the bill. The Commission would also have deserved that we would have carried out far more hearings of the professionals involved in its application. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] None of this was done because of haste. For this reason alone, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u161	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u162	We are concerned about this bill, because it attacks the right to demonstrate, which I recall is the result of the right to petition of the seventeenth century, which is itself one of the causes of the English Revolution. In addition, it encourages confusion of powers, as it confers on the administration the powers of the judge. Finally, we can be pretty sure that it will be censored in part by the Constitutional Council and that it will lead to an increase in appeals to the European Court of Human Rights, the ECHR. Thus, we are concerned about this bill, because we believe it is bad for democracy. Therefore, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote on the motion for referral to committee, for reasons diametrically opposed to those put forward by members of the Republicans Group, who should at least welcome the fact that we are considering a bill from the Senate. Moreover, let them not worry: he will have every opportunity to re-establish the version he has adopted. My comrades from La République en marche had the right idea to delete article 1. I note that the Government restored it this morning, which is a bit of a pity, because we did not have time to discuss it in committee. When it comes to fundamental freedoms, we really need to be very careful. In addition, I doubt that this bill is effective against breakers. Their mode of operation is known. These are not bills of this kind that will effectively fight against them, but intelligence. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Their modus operandi will make this bill ineffective. On the other hand, it may limit the freedom to demonstrate for some of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u163	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u164	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 173 Number of votes cast 173 Absolute majority 87 For adoption 59 Against 114
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u165	[[Applause on a few benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, once it is not customary, before I begin the general discussion, I would like to take stock of the difficult weather conditions this evening. We are going to conclude the general discussion, which should lead us to an hour in the morning, but I would like to point out – especially to those who have arrangements to make – that no vote will take place this evening on the amendments or on the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u166	In the general debate, Mr Jean-François Eliaou spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u167	The bill before us, adopted at first reading in the Senate, is intended to prevent and punish violence during demonstrations. It stems from the desire to move towards the most comprehensive and effective legislative arsenal possible, in order to protect the freedom of our fellow citizens to demonstrate freely, in a secure framework, and to give more legal power to law enforcement. In recent months, police officers and gendarmes have been harshly solicited and often confronted with acts of extreme violence committed by breakers during demonstrations on the public highway. By the way, I salute the courage and professionalism they have shown during these events. The right to demonstrate is one of the forms of free expression of opinion, a witness to our democracy and guaranteed by the Constitution. However, the use of violence, the deterioration of public roads, the destruction of State property and property of others and the endangerment of demonstrators, passers-by and law enforcement is not a right, it is an obstacle to the freedom to manifest among our fellow citizens. Such inadmissible spillovers oblige us to note the inadequacy and lack of effectiveness of the existing legal framework. Thus, our duty as legislator requires us to act and take appropriate measures to maintain the safety of everyone in the exercise of this right. Our primary objective, let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, is to defend and strengthen the right of our citizens to demonstrate. However, we can no longer turn a blind eye to such acts, contrary to our republican values. Although the objective pursued was commendable, the bill from the Senate, as originally drafted, presented risks to individual freedoms. That is why the text before us is the result of intense work with our colleagues and the Government in a time of compulsion to effectively prevent and punish serious breaches of public order. Briefly, a few clarifications. In Article 1A, we propose a reduction of the procedure for the declaration of events in order to simplify the regime. In addition, we have tabled an amendment to rewrite Rule 1, which was originally deleted in committee. It is designed to meet the operational demand of the law enforcement agencies by allowing them to search for weapons, or any object that may constitute a weapon by destination, within the demonstration or in its immediate vicinity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u168	It's already possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u169	The establishment of a mechanism for parliamentary oversight and evaluation of administrative policing measures, as provided for in Chapter 1 of the proposed legislation, seems to us to be very important. We therefore propose, in article 3 bis, to monitor the implementation of these provisions by means of a detailed report submitted by the Government. We have adopted a precise amendment to Article 4, in order to ensure that the penalties provided for – up to one year's imprisonment and a fine of EUR 15000 – are imposed on persons deliberately and intentionally concealing their faces during a demonstration, in order to avoid their identification by the law enforcement authorities, in order to participate or be able to participate in the commission of public order disturbances. Article 6 voted by the Senate introduced an obligation to score persons who were prohibited from taking part in demonstrations. Such a provision is not only difficult to implement, but also inadequate in the light of the sanction provided for in the event of a violation. We also proposed to remove the possibility for the sentencing judge to change the perimeter of the places where the ban applies. Finally, the draft law, in its original wording, established in article 7 a presumption of collective civil liability for damage caused by a demonstration on the public highway. However, this wording does not make it clear that the remedy is only available to those who cause the damage. It is therefore a question of decorating the possibility of a remedy by the State of the need for a criminal conviction, in order to establish the principle of "breaker-pays". We are all here – I am fully convinced – committed to the right to demonstrate. Our line remains – and will remain – the defence and strengthening of this fundamental right. The clarifications and additions we have made in the course of our work have led to a balanced bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Patrick Mignola also applauds]] I hope that the text will receive the approval of our assembly. For its part, the Group of the Republic on the move will support the amended text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u170	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u171	As we begin our consideration of the bill introduced in the Senate by our colleague Retailleau, I cannot ignore two observations. First of all, it seems to me particularly damaging, minister, that because of your choice to postpone the examination of the text when you could have done so immediately after it was adopted by the Senate, you have put yourself – you have put us – in the situation of having to respond to the criticism that is now being made of you – context requires – that it is a law of circumstance. The text was not conceived by its authors as a law of circumstance. When it was adopted in October, it presented itself as a simple improvement of our legal and administrative arrangements, so that we would no longer see the scenes of violence that – unfortunately – spoil the demonstrations every week. Secondly, I really regret that the work of the Law Committee, and above all the very disorderly views of yourself,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u172	Can you give me an example?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u173	... some members of the majority and other ministers have maintained and aggravated the confusion surrounding the content of the text. Moreover, we have just had an additional illustration this evening, when we considered the two motions that we have just debated. More than ever, it seems to us, clarity and serenity are needed in this regard. In fact, what is it? First and foremost, we must preserve and guarantee the right to demonstrate and the freedom of any French citizen to do so without hindrance. To regulate the demonstrations is precisely to exclude those who have nothing to do with it, that is, those who usurp these movements in order to commit violent acts against peaceful demonstrators, law enforcement and security forces, as well as property, private and public, as we have unfortunately seen too much. In this regard, to say that the text is liberticide, as some have done these days, is absolutely irresponsible. The next step is to ensure that our law enforcement and security forces have the means to guarantee the security of everyone in these movements. Create a file of breakers, allow prefects to pronounce their exclusion, prevent them from wandering armed and masked: all this is simply struck at the corner of common sense. I remind those who criticise these provisions that the current situation shows – sadly – the absolute need to adopt them and bring them into force as soon as possible. Allow me also to say a word about the conditions under which our police officers, gendarmes and law enforcement and security forces have been working, the pressure they have been facing for many weeks – and more generally in the exercise of their missions – and the additional difficulty caused by the general climate of suspicion, sometimes opportunely staged by some, caused by what is known as police violence. No body in our society is uniformly blameless. Let us give our security and security forces the means of their missions! Let us allow the instructions given to them by their hierarchy as well as by the political power – therefore by yourself, Minister of the Interior – to be applied! Finally, how can we continue to tolerate that the terrible damage suffered by our cities, our neighbourhoods and their businesses will remain unpunished and be borne by the taxpayers? This bill raises the level of sanctions, which is an urgent and absolute necessity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, we believe – I think – that you must be clear, Minister, and allow the text to bring a real added value to the security of demonstrations, demonstrators, as well as law enforcement and security forces. It is only at the cost of such firmness and clarity that you have and that the French are waiting, that stigmatization of all kinds will cease and we will be able to support the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u174	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u175	Here we are now in smaller committee than before...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u176	[[Smile]] But a quality committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u177	...but we've already exchanged a lot. So I'll try to be synthetic. For several months now, our country has been experiencing crowds and demonstrations, often spontaneous and undeclared, organized on social networks, of a completely new scale and form. Of course, the majority of participants in these events want to express their demands peacefully. To all of them, we must guarantee the right to demonstrate safely. These rallies and demonstrations, which have often involved radical elements, have unfortunately given rise to quasi-insurgency scenes, to kinds of jacqueries, with calls for hatred and unacceptable violence against law enforcement officials, against journalists and against elected officials. Numerous damages and destructions of shops, vehicles and public equipment have caused these demonstrations. These degradations, I would remind you, have a cost, which will be borne by the community. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Under these difficult conditions, the forces of law and order, which must already ensure the security of the French on a daily basis and in the face of the terrorist threat still present, have intervened with courage and professionalism. I believe that we can all, in this House, salute and thank them. I am aware, of course, that demonstrators have been injured, sometimes seriously. Investigations will be required to determine causes and responsibilities. The doctrine of policing and the rules for the use of certain deterrent tools that law enforcement forces are equipped with will need to be re-evaluated, as you have said, Minister. But because no claim can justify the violence we have witnessed recently, we must adapt to better prevent such violence and to be more effective in the search for and prosecution of its perpetrators. That is the purpose of the bill put forward by Senators The Republicans, which we will be debating today. Colleagues, you will note that our majority also knows how to give priority to the general interest over any chapel spirit. The text adopted by the Senate contains three major provisions. Article 1 provides for the establishment by the Prefect of a security perimeter. Article 2 creates a preventive ban on the demonstration of a person who represents a threat to public order; Dear Eric Ciotti, as you said, this is the central provision of this text, the one to which we must pay particular attention. The file provided for in Article 3 follows from this. Finally, article 4 provides for the conversion of the violation of concealment of the face into an offence. This measure is called for by all the actors involved. Article 1, deleted in committee, allowed the prefect to establish a security perimeter to prevent the carrying and transport of weapons by destination on the scene of a demonstration, as was said – and the specific measures already adopted in the fight against terrorism. This time, however, the scope was much broader, since the article authorized the prefect to introduce this system since "the circumstances raise fears of disturbances of a particular gravity to public order". If the aim of these measures was to enhance the effectiveness of the provisions of the Code of Internal Security, we would ask ourselves about the need for this new mechanism in the light of the existing mechanisms. However, we had not tabled any deletion amendment, considering that it was preferable, if necessary, to provide for a better framework. Madam rapporteur, you have tabled an amendment to re-establish Article 1. The proposed mechanism, without reference to the concept of a security perimeter, provides for the combined intervention of the prefect and the public prosecutor, the first to prohibit the carrying of objects that may constitute weapons, the second to search for and continue to participate in a demonstration by carrying a weapon. If this amendment, which I hope I have understood correctly, may seem to reconcile contradictory imperatives, I am very reserved about its application. It does not escape the fact that the public prosecutor is not bound by the prefect. Two sub-amendments were tabled by the Government; If adopted, they would remove part of its substance from the rewriting of this article, leaving only the mechanism for the establishment of a security perimeter by the public prosecutor to remain. You have to take a step backwards here; I am not sure that this provision is not already included in Article 78-2-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Because of the late tabling of these sub-amendments, I too would like to reconsider the text before taking a decision. Our group will present several amendments which are not intended to alter the effectiveness of the text, but to facilitate its implementation while ensuring respect for public freedoms. I am thinking in particular of Article 4: we too believe that the task of investigative services and magistrates needs to be simplified. However, the characterization of the intention seems complex to me to draw up as it stands in the text adopted by the committee. That is why we will propose simplification. In Article 2, we tabled an amendment to frame the notion of a threat to public order, which allows the prefect to issue a nominative preventive ban on protest. This, as I said, is the central provision of the text. For our group, this threat must be characterized by a judicial conviction, in order to circumscribe the powers of discretion of the prefect in this area sensitive to public freedoms. But we rule out the requirement of a final conviction, since judicial time is long; We hope that a conviction of first instance will suffice to impose an administrative ban. This can be done very shortly after the commission of the facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u178	That's a good proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u179	We are in favour of these administrative prohibitions, which are indispensable to us. But we believe that their guidance needs to be strengthened. Our proposal seems to us to guarantee public freedoms while preserving public order. A second amendment is intended to regulate the summonses imposed on persons who are prohibited from demonstrating. For now, the rules are blurred. If the score were specified, we would be satisfied; But the current wording would make it possible to retain a person summoned for an excessive period of time, perhaps even longer than the duration of the event if the dispersion time is included. We hope that this period will not exceed four hours. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The MODEM Group fully endorses the Government's intention and the objectives of the text proposed by the Senate to improve the prevention of violence committed during demonstrations and to improve the effectiveness of the research and prosecution of the perpetrators. However, our training has always been attentive to the balance between the protection of public order and respect for public freedoms. It is in this spirit that we will debate the text and present our amendments to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u180	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u181	The questions that we ask ourselves about this text oblige me to begin by setting out an obvious fact: whatever criticisms we make of this bill, we are very committed to the rule of law. I would first like to pay tribute to the forces of law and order; They are engaged in a demanding and dangerous occupation to protect us and to protect these fundamental rights that underpin our democracy. Like my group as a whole, I deplore the violence wherever it comes from, the wounded and the death. We also deplore the significant material damage that endangers small businesses in need of stability. But we also want to say that such violence is not new and that, for that reason, there is a legal arsenal. We're not leaving anything! The emergence of black blocs requires, of course, the evolution of our strategy, doctrine and practices; But this remains a regulatory issue. Our responsibility as legislators is to ensure balance. On the form, I would like to make three remarks, which are all regrets, about the progress of parliamentary work, which must be of good quality; We owe it to our fellow citizens. First of all, after the violence on 1 May 2018, we called for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. It was not a question of questioning the police, but of studying the conditions of intervention and the modus operandi, without any complacency with the violent groups. I would like to recall that 1200 people in the black blocks had caused significant damage and projectiles to the security forces, that 31 businesses had been ransacked and 6 cars burned, that 283 people had been arrested and 109 kept in custody. The majority's refusal then deprives us of a shared reflection that would have been very useful. The rule of law that we defend requires these moments of evaluation. Secondly, I note that the bill that we are debating today, which was precisely tabled following the events of May 2018, was initially welcomed more than reserved by the Government, which now makes it a priority – it is because of the recent facts that this text is there. It is therefore not wrong to speak of a text of circumstance. Finally, the working method is unheard of: we are no longer even in accelerated procedure, but in hasty procedure, in high-speed procedure! The Law Commission has examined a text with holes: the majority did not agree with the Government, so we have all voted for the deletion of articles, knowing that they would be re-established by government amendments. It's new! However, a working group of lawyers and operational staff, under the authority of the Ministries of Justice and the Interior, existed; it delivered its Opinion on 15 January. We asked to know them; Of course, we did not receive them. In substance, this text was considered unnecessary and dangerous by many; The Defender of Rights, whose analysis must be heard when it comes to public freedoms, has made it quite clear. It's a useless text. Our fellow citizens, rightly so, do not understand breakers; Neither do we. They do not understand the impunity of troublemakers; Neither do we. Any crime must be condemned and any conduct endangering the freedom of everyone to demonstrate must be identified and punished. But the texts exist to break the breakers! This is a matter of justice, not police. On the other hand, security is the security of people, of course, but it is also legal security. But we vote three texts a year on this subject! A text succeeds a text, without any balance sheet being drawn up. The first answer to be given is that of human but also material means, the adaptation of which must be carefully appreciated. I will not mention Article 2 at the heart of the text tonight; We will come back to that when we consider the amendments. Guy Braibant wrote that "crisiss leave behind them as a tide of thick sediments of legal pollution." My colleague Alain Tourret, in a similar situation that we have known together, quoted this great administrator by urging us not to talk about simplification while densifying a legislative system that we did not even know at this stage if the existing one was applied, and how.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u182	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u183	Finding the right balance between the maintenance of public order and respect for fundamental freedoms is probably one of the most difficult tasks we have to do as legislators, mainly because one does not go without the other. Violence and degradation during demonstrations are a perfect example of our task, especially when we face changing conditions in which demonstrations take place. Indeed, these are now more spontaneous and less structured. Because of social networks, their organizers are often poorly or poorly identified, making it difficult for both consultation and dialogue. The demonstrations are now more heterogeneous, mixing violent actors who form provocative and offensive groups that represent a new and very difficult threat to apprehend with peaceful demonstrators. Finally, a twofold statement is necessary: we must move forward on this text surely, but also with caution. We must certainly move forward, because we need means to stem this violence: it is a question of responding to a real public security problem in the face of groups that have been busy for months and are acting with impunity. For the time being, the legal framework was unsatisfactory: its shortcomings should therefore be addressed. However, we must proceed carefully to avoid any amalgam, excesses or perverse effects that might prevent our fellow citizens from manifesting. Nor should this law be interpreted as an instrument of distrust towards demonstrators, but rather as a tool for the protection of persons and property, thus preserving the right to demonstrate. This is all the more true since this is a hybrid proposal for a law, which includes criminal measures, but also administrative police measures which can inherently involve risks in relation to the urgency and the absence of intervention by the judicial judge. Caution must therefore be exercised to ensure that it applies, albeit severely, but only to the cassage professionals. That is why we must put in place a solid legal arsenal that will avoid any constitutional pitfall. Certain precautions would prevent the mechanism from being called into question repeatedly, in particular through the priority issue of constitutionality. The aim is to prevent harm to those who do not peacefully express their convictions, but destroy, loot and fight the police forces. They are not there to manifest: their behaviour cannot therefore be assimilated to the exercise of a fundamental right, and they must be prevented and prosecuted in proportion to the gravity of their acts. These individuals pose a danger to those who peacefully exercise their right to demonstrate, as well as a threat to law enforcement. Finally, they cause a great deal of material damage. Their abuses are therefore detrimental to all. They ultimately take advantage of the demonstrations while diverting their purpose. We must therefore act. How, however, can we ensure that this action does not affect the rights of others, so that everyone will continue to feel free to demonstrate and protect themselves in the exercise of this right, so that this text will achieve its objectives? We therefore come to the question of applicability. How to implement mapping and convening throughout the duration of an event? No information was given to us about this, but everyone will agree that it is not as easy as collecting a signature at the police station during a football game. The Government's amendment proposing a new wording of article 2 still does not allow for an answer to this question: summoning and pointing are used in turn, without knowing what is covered by both. On the other hand, the text still appears as vague: who will appreciate the potential actions to infer that a person constitutes a threat? In addition, attempts to rebalancing between the maintenance of public order and respect for the right to demonstrate appear to be inconclusive. If you are trying to better regulate the prohibition by the prefect, it is indeed at the cost of adding a new measure which is particularly harmful to freedoms, since it will now be able, if it considers it necessary, to impose a ban on demonstrations extending throughout the national territory. Similarly, if you explicitly register the right of appeal against an order prohibiting the demonstration, you de facto remove, by making the order ex officio enforceable in the event of an undeclared demonstration, the possibility of filing such an appeal: no matter what the condition of urgency is no longer required. It is here that the problem is hurting and the doubts are strongest, since it is a matter of limiting a fundamental right without a judge intervening. Finally, with regard to this article, I would like to highlight one thing. I tabled amendments in committee deleting the reference to anyone as well as the reference to the individual coming into contact regularly with groups inciting violence. If they have been rejected, I am still happy to see that they have been used somewhat for the new writing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u184	[[Smile]] It's called a paternity claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u185	After it has been deleted in committee, you propose a new wording of Article 1. On the form, we are still going through your last minute amendments, which seems all the more unacceptable in the case of a general rewrite that completely changes the meaning of the article. In the same way as in Article 2, you disregard our work and the absence of discussion in committee. On the bottom, you finally completely abandon the idea of setting up security perimeters. Of course, we expect your explanations on this point. The intentions regarding the listing of persons prohibited from protesting appear unclear. If you first had to create a new file, you finally decided in commission to use the file of the wanted people, without much further details... In addition, certain articles of this bill, such as the prohibition of the carrying of weapons during a demonstration or the recursory action of the State, appear already to be satisfied. If you have decided to remove some and rewrite others, the balances are not always obvious. So there has been a complete remodelling of the text, which leaves us disappointed: we were not really able to exchange before the sitting on this completely revised bill. If we are in favour of its primary objective, we hope that our discussions will help to clarify these shaded areas, because in terms of measures that restrict individual and collective freedoms, no drift could be acceptable. This bill is certainly necessary; We have been calling it our vows since the spillovers last December. These violent individuals must understand that republican order must be restored and that within a democracy, there is always a choice to express themselves differently than through violence. However, this law will not solve everything: we all need to be aware here, both government and parliamentarians. Violent groups must no longer be able to integrate the processions of demonstrations, and what we have experienced during the last social movements can justify a prompt and detailed response. This response, however, will not exempt us from taking the time to reflect on longer-term political responses in an attempt to appease the current social climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u186	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u187	France is living a unique moment in its history. An unprecedented moment: there is no situation comparable to this combination of social exasperation and exasperation in the face of the impotence of democracy to take into account the popular aspirations that we are experiencing. This has been going on for twelve weeks now, defeating all prognosis, including ours, as to what was going to happen over the days – and it's not over. In these circumstances, we face the most terrible record of the past sixty years. Never, even in 1968, with 10 million workers on strike, or in 1995, with millions of people moving on the streets, have we seen such a thing. 1,000 police officers were injured by aberrant use of law enforcement devices, and 1,800 were injured among the demonstrators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u188	1900.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u189	It is not nothing: we are a great democracy observed in the world. This cumulation of numbers is cold in the back. Eleven yellow vests died during the mobilization: one – a poor lady, Mrs. Zineb Redouane – was the victim in Marseilles of a grenade that hit her on the first floor where she was; ten others, because securing the mobilization points on the roundabouts was not guaranteed. 160 head injuries, 18 people shoved, 4 hands torn: are we thinking of these poor lives so upset? Who are these people? Let's take a closer look: are they known and recognized criminals, assailants, looters, looters? No, never. There is not a single case in which one can say: this person has exposed himself. They're always people who were either there or watching, or they didn't have the caution to start running fast enough because they thought they were spectators. Until the dramatic and so revealing accident of Mr. Jérôme Rodrigues: this man, who had just denounced the violence that occurred a little further away, was filming what he saw. Nothing else. He's skewed. At the same time, there must be an official. In the Republic, the rule is that a police officer cannot be called into question individually for an inappropriate act, even if it must be punished as a professional misconduct. However, there can be no question of making the police responsible for this situation: it is up to the policy to assume. You were told of the demoralizing effect of Mr. Collomb's behaviour when he put all the responsibility for the situation created by Mr. Benalla on the police hierarchy. It will be the same today if you just say every time injuries of this order occur: "We will see what has happened and who is responsible. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group – Jean Lassalle also applauds]] No, you're responsible, Minister! You, personally! That's what the Republic wants. Whatever the quality of your intentions and your quality as a human being, which is not involved in this matter, your responsibility is political. So you're the one who has to deal with this situation. If these people are scorned, if these policemen are hurt, if this situation exists, it's your fault! We've never seen this before in this country, in any tense political situation, for more than sixty years! You must resign and leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u190	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u191	That's what the unsubs are asking you to do. Yes, we ask for it because the political sense leads us to do so. At this moment we must take enough height to convince the country not to let it go where it is pushed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u192	Try to take it yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u193	...that is to say, the idea of a confrontation, I mean between two camps. What do you mean, two camps? But there are not two camps in this country: there is only one, that of the people, of their Republic, of their police, of their collective security! [[Applause on several benches of the FI group – Jean Lassalle also applauds]] It is not good for some to imagine that the others are enemies, or that the police may think that the demonstrators are a bunch of thugs and criminals, or that those who protest think that the police are bullies who want their lives, because that is not true. All this is not good. We've got to get high. There are times when the acts we commit go beyond what we might want ourselves to do. There is now, step by step, an authoritarian drift: I adjure you to become aware of it. Only 18 months ago we had a new government, which is the result of a political crisis, since it did not come to power "naturally". This was achieved on the basis of the collapse of the former political structure that led the country. In this situation of absolute crisis, all the procedures of the State of Emergency Act have been introduced into the ordinary law in less than 18 months. We have just passed a law of justice reform that has been shown to you in every possible way in which it could be dangerous. Yes, one thing more than another, and another: we have barely finished voting for this reform of the justice system, which we are seeing again and again taking further steps, thinking that they will help to curb what cannot be done in this way. I will say further on how to proceed. It is now a prefect who will decide, without any judge, who can demonstrate or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u195	But finally, the last time we did so, especially with the state of emergency law, how many criminals have we prevented from acting? No, it was trade unionists and environmental activists who were prevented from protesting and were placed under house arrest. Minister, see for yourself how you are trained, from day to day, to say more and more, in a way that does not correspond to what your mission is. How could you say on the radio or on television: "Tomorrow, I say, those who come to protest in cities where there is broken news know that they will be accomplices"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u196	They're threats!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u197	[[MM. Ugo Bernalicis and Jean Lassalle applaud]] You absolutely exceed your function! The Minister of the Interior cannot threaten the entire population who decides to go to protest on the sole ground that some – I don't know who – would have announced a break. One thing by driving another, one of our colleagues, spokesman for an extremely important group, dares to say that there is worse than those who threaten, than the one who beats, than the one who intimidates: there are those who arm minds to legitimize this violence in this country. She brought to justice the words of my comrades Thomas Guénolé and Juan Branco, on the ground that they would have called to I know nothing of violence. This is all wrong! You yourself, Minister, invited to television yesterday, said about a sentence by Mr.Eric Drouet – "We call for an unprecedented uprising by all the necessary and useful means to ensure that no one is the victim of these war wounds. – that it was a call for insurrection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u199	And you added: "This last statement is, in my view, a criminal offence. We'll do what we call a section 40 so the prosecutor can decide whether he wants to prosecute or not. You realize that he calls for the use of new weapons while today there are Molotov cocktails". That is to say that you want to lock everyone up: if you are not in obedience, at the care of yourself, it is that you are a criminal who is about to act. In addition, at the time when you are speaking these words, you know that the day before, Mr. Drouet expressed himself clearly: "I was at Jerome's bedside – this is Jérôme Rodrigues, the one who was eborgné – when the team of administrators wrote it. I didn't read it until after," he said, adding, taking responsibility: "The word "resurrection" was too much. I call for the greatest pacifism. » [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] For my part, I do not agree with that. The history of France is thus made that, in times like this, it is also legitimate, as General de Gaulle did, to want to change the institutions. For my part, I do not agree to be called "factious" because I propose, with my friends, to change the institutions. I am part of a long tradition of questioning constitutions. You're going too far. There has been an authoritarian drift, and you have everything to fear that having put such instruments in place, they do not end up falling into the wrong hands. You don't just have to think about yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u200	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u201	You can't just think about the moment you rule. We must think, in the long term, of the truth of what the French Republic is in the eyes of the world and of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u202	By preaching uprising or appeasement?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u203	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] We want a ban on mutilating weapons. You have no reason to say, "We're going to run out of stocks." It's dangerous, minister – especially as it's related to the circumstances. No one can blame a man who has felt harassed for a whole day for committing an inappropriate act. We understand these things. This is why in France everyone is forbidden to be armed – not because it is thought that the French would kill each other in a meaningful session, but because it is necessary that, in the circumstances in which these weapons might arrive in their hands, they should not be there. The same applies to weapons of repression. We want a ban on mutilating weapons: LBD and explosive grenades.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u204	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u205	We want an end to the use of units whose maintenance of law and order is not the job. LAC, an anti-criminality brigade, and BIS, a research and intervention brigade, have nothing to do with law enforcement operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u207	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u208	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] It's not their job: they don't know how to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u209	I'm going to ask you to conclude, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u210	I conclude, Mr. President. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] Minister, you think the solution is in the spirit of repression. We believe that there is no public order possible without social justice. You'll learn to understand it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u211	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u212	Minister, you are saying that this bill is not a text of circumstance, of communication. Yet, everything shows that this is the case. It was thought that with the arrival of the new world, we would end this very bad habit of making laws at the pace of events or at the slightest media shock. These laws "of the moment", elaborated in the moment, we have had some in the recent past; They have most often proved to be useless. You say it's not a "yellow vest law." Which act – but in this case, why legislate in an emergency? You answer that it is appropriate to respond to an unprecedented situation because, since mid-November, there have been situations of violence in the yellow vest demonstrations. So it's not a yellow vest law, but we still need to legislate urgently to respond to the crisis... I believe that the main objective of this text is to stalemate the disastrous political management by the Government of the social movement that our country has been experiencing since last November. As a first step, the Government treated the movement with indifference, then you reduced it, then some members of the Government or the majority allowed themselves to mock it, then you treated it with condescendence, then you played the strategy of tension, thinking that the climate of violence was going to make the movement lose the massive support of the French people, but it was not: still today, a majority of French people support the demands of the yellow vest movement, especially those relating to social justice. After more than two months of chaotic political management of the popular movement, the record is disastrous: eleven deaths, thousands of wounded on both sides, maimed people, exhausted police officers sent to confrontation, and a strained bond of trust between the population and the police. Frankly, I'm wondering. I do not know if many of us here have lived closely through the urban riots of 2005, but with such an organization of law and order, with such chaotic management, how many victims would we have had to deplore during these riots, which were, I recall, much more violent, and often directed directly against the police, because of the origin of the tensions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u213	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u214	We even heard gunshots fired at police vehicles. At that time, however, another strategy had been adopted: that of de-escalation – which did not exclude firmness. This allowed us to spend this period without counting too many wounded, let alone dead, at the end of the riots.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u215	He's absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u216	It's relevant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u217	As you know: Communist deputies are opposed to violence and condemn them without hesitation. There are fundamental reasons for this, starting with our commitment to republican principles and to a peaceful democracy, but it is also in our political interest. No one more than we in this House has any interest in the fact that the demonstrations are massive; If they are to be, they must be calm. No one more than we manifest so much in the streets of the cities of France. On the day when demonstrations will be reserved for the most determined, on the day when insecurity will be such that it will become a heroic act, our democracy will have regressed greatly. The situation is deteriorating. While, since the 1970s, violence in demonstrations has continued to recede, as many studies have shown, we have been witnessing an upsurge in violence for about four years, especially since the 2015 Labour Law. None of the demonstrations against the El Khomri law in Paris could be completed. On May 1, 2018, the traditional event could not take place: it was a first in the history of May 1 in France. As early as 3 May, when Mr Benalla's actions were not yet in the news, I had proposed the creation of a commission of inquiry, because the strategy of policing was too incomprehensible. I recall that on May 1st, there were preventive searches: the strollers of the children – the demonstration of May 1st being often family and festive – were searched, as were the backpacks and cabas of the papis and granies who were coming to protest! Meanwhile, 1000 black blocks gathered on the bridge of Austerlitz in peace; They had hours to get ready, put on hoods and arm themselves, without ever being worried, after which they went to break the shops and assault the police. All this raises a lot of questions, and that is why I asked, in vain, for a committee of inquiry to be set up. Most sincerely, I believe, minister, that instead of legislating in haste, it would be more useful to evaluate and question our doctrine and our means, especially those of the police, in order to guarantee the right to demonstrate and ensure law and order with the primary objective of guaranteeing this constitutional right; It would be more useful to understand what has deteriorated in policing policies in recent years. There has been too much manslaughter and change of strategy on the part of the hierarchies so that we do not question their relevance. How can we explain that with the same legislative framework, violence has been reduced in demonstrations for years and that law enforcement agencies managed urban riots in 2005? What has happened in the last four years so that the machine can detach itself at this point? I don't think we should hide behind a law. Legislation already exists to challenge and convict those who commit offences during demonstrations. The ban on the demonstration of breakers already exists; the illegal organization of a demonstration is already repressed, as is the concealment of the face and the carrying of a weapon. Our current legal arsenal allows us to deal with violence. There is no justification for the adoption of a new text, except for government communication. The Defender of Rights states, in his note on the original bill, that "in view of its general economy, [this] appears to be both unnecessary and dangerous and seems to be free from constitutional and treaty requirements". In the same vein, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights is concerned about the impact of administrative police measures and the strengthening of the security arsenal on fundamental freedoms: "These new measures affect the cursor of freedoms. They do not seem necessary or proportionate and reveal once again the contamination of the common law by measures inspired by the state of emergency. » Although the law committee of our assembly has removed some provisions from the Republicans' bill, it remains, from our point of view, unacceptable. It is a disproportionate attack on the freedom to go and come, as well as on the freedom to demonstrate. The measures contained therein will not make it easier to apprehend breakers. They will neither prevent violence nor calm current tensions. On the other hand, they will restrict the freedom to manifest, which in our view is a fundamental freedom. In the current context, we believe that it is essential for the State to undertake a reform of the doctrine of law and order with a view to appeasement of relations between the police and the population and in order to protect fundamental freedoms. With this in mind, we agree with the desire expressed by some unions, including police officers, to ban the launchers of defensive bullets. The reform presented today promotes a logic diametrically opposed to such an approach. That is why the Communist deputies will oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u218	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u219	The climate in which we have to look at the bill to prevent violence during demonstrations and punish their perpetrators gives us the feeling of walking on a wire, with the risk of tipping, at every moment, on one side or the other. But turning to the defence of public freedoms at all costs would ignore that there can be no freedom if security is not guaranteed, while turning to the side of an indiscriminate strengthening of order, in particular through emergency measures, would weaken our freedoms, which are nevertheless the cornerstone of our rule of law. Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to reiterate that our group unequivocally condemns all forms of violence and calls for the breakers in the yellow vest demonstrations to be arrested and punished. We were all shocked and revolted by seeing attacked symbols, vandalized shops, cars and other destroyed property. Deeply attached to the freedoms and respect for the republican order, our group sees democracy as a valuable common good, which must be preserved at every moment. The constant search for this subtle balance between the effective prevention of breaches of public order, on the one hand, and respect for constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms, on the other hand, is what unites us in the Freedom and Territory Group. However, unity does not prohibit diversity, and that is why we sometimes have different opinions as to whether or not we should adapt our right to the exceptional situations we face. Most notably, the Libertés et Territoires Group is opposed to the bill. While some members of our group consider it necessary to strengthen the existing legal arsenal, in order to put an end to the violent spillovers that our country has been experiencing for many of us for several weeks, the existing law prevents such violence and punishes its perpetrators. That is why we have tabled several amendments to delete articles from the bill. We are convinced that law and order can be exercised effectively without having to pass a new law whose constitutionality seems questionable in some respects. That had already been the finding made by your majority on the occasion of the Senate's review of the text. In particular, it had pointed out that certain provisions of the proposed law were "inordinately infringing constitutional rights and freedoms". I would add that on such a serious subject and in such a confused climate, we should be able to legislate calmly and rise to heights, given the importance of the principles at stake – I mean freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, guaranteed in any democratic society. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must guard against systematically legislating as a matter of urgency when difficulties arise, and stop bringing emergency measures into the ordinary law. Parliament must also be allowed to work in good conditions. From this point of view, the manner in which the Committee's work has been conducted has once again demonstrated the lack of consideration that the Government attaches to national representation. With regard to the examination of this text in public session, saying that things have not improved is an understatement! It was not until the end of the morning today that the Government tabled its amendment to rewrite article 2, which we are concerned about. We will have only a few dozen hours to study this amendment, which concerns fundamental freedoms, while the Council of State has had a whole week. This is the state of the Fifth Republic, this parliamentary regime where the Government gives the Council of State more time than the deputies to study a piece of legislation! On the other hand, we were surprised to note that the committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments that we are going to discuss, including those of the rapporteur and the Government. That is to say the level of floating and unpreparation! All these considerations lead us to believe that this bill could prove to be "unnecessary and dangerous", as the Defender of Rights has said. Rather, let us provide the means for our justice to implement the existing texts, and let us give the means to our law enforcement agencies to ensure their full mission, while respecting their physical integrity. The reality is that we have neither the human resources nor the financial means to effectively implement our current legislation, and it is not this bill that will fill these loopholes. Far from providing adequate responses to the situation, it risks ignoring the demands of individual freedom, freedom to come and go and the right to collective expression of ideas and opinions. Let us be careful, ladies and gentlemen, not to gradually niggle the perimeter of public freedoms! They are valuable, and all measures to challenge them must be strictly necessary and proportionate, which is clearly not the case with this bill. Why, Mr. Minister, is it absolutely necessary to reproduce the system relating to the administrative stage ban, when it has not been evaluated in 13 years of activity? The only real assessment we can make of it to date is that it has been misled. Initially created to keep the breakers away from the stadiums, it was quickly implemented for other offences, such as the possession of smokers, even alcohol, the possession of narcotics or the sit-in of supporters. Moreover, it appears that the Government refuses any transparency with regard to the implementation, in the Territories, of this prohibition by the prefects. However, transparency is a reality in most European countries, such as Italy, Germany and the United Kingdom. You will certainly object to us that the situation will be different for this text, which provides, in Article 3a, for the submission of an annual report. So, commit yourself further and support our amendment to make it clear that this report will have to be completed the first year following the enactment of the law in the Official Gazette! This clarification is the guarantee that this report will not be repeatedly rejected. Minister, to want a fair balance between the necessary preservation of our public freedoms and respect for the republican order is not to take the side of "chaos", as you said a few moments ago; it is not to take the side of the "crude" who advocate "violence"; It is to take the side of moderation, the search for balance, democracy, the party of respect for the values of the Republic. Like you, we believe that violence should not be the norm, but we also believe that the response to this violence should not be the restriction of our public freedoms. To be responsible is not to pass laws of circumstance. You say we have to act, and we agree; But to act is to empower our law enforcement forces, to enable the existing texts to be fully effective. It is not to add an umpteenth law that will blur our legal arsenal and will not be more operational than the previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u220	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u221	[[Smile]] [[Smile]] So it is in the middle of the night, in a full Chamber, that I am given the insignia – and the immense responsibility – to give you a secret of state: how did we rewrite the Retailleau bill? Let me first tell you that we no doubt share your objectives, which are those of all Republicans in our Chamber – "Republicans" in the broad sense, of course – to restore the authority of the State and equip our forces of law and order in the face of the serious violence observed during the demonstrations. This multiple and repeated violence, as noted by some members of the opposition, has been transferred, but not all of its consequences. Why should this bill be rewritten? First of all because it was partly imprecise in its drafting; Secondly, because a large part of its measures were disproportionate, and many others were inapplicable. There is also the urgency, an argument that was criticized even when it was invoked: the urgency in the face of the demonstrations that I have just described, and which have outraged us all. From this point of view, it is not possible to criminalize the emergency procedure, to shout at it when it is initiated by the Government, when the Parliament is seized to do what is expected of it: to look at measures that affect fundamental freedoms, the very freedoms which it is, under the Constitution, the guarantor of. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The minister is probably responsible to the French for the violence and for the response to it. But those who hysterize the debate and apologise for the violence – whether by the police or the demonstrators – are notoriously irresponsible, endangering our most precious asset: democracy, the Republic. We must have met with the police and heard their testimonies, on the defensive bullets or the pomegranates of deencirclement, to understand that the use of these weapons is for them only a last resort. However, this bill, as I said, must find certain limits. I am not thinking here of its penal provisions, which are appropriate to us as we have rewritten them, in particular in Article 4 and by deleting Article 5. My colleagues have had the opportunity to explain the reasons for these votes, as well as the limitation of sanctions for face concealment; They have also, and above all, supervised the administrative police measures that were initially submitted to us. First of all, I want to talk about Article 1, which was in the ordinary law, excuse me for a little, of the measures of the state of emergency. That was unacceptable. On the other hand, the rewriting of article 78-2-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which gives the prefect the power to search for specific offences, and this upon the request of the public prosecutor, is entirely admissible; That is why we accepted it. The answer is still yes to the administrative ban on manifesting, framed in the light of a model we know, that of the administrative ban on stage, i.e. by defining the public concerned. You know my particular sensitivity to football fans, which my colleague Acquaviva has just mentioned – I have also asked for the creation of an information mission on this subject. The appeal against the administrative prohibition on manifesting, in any event, is guaranteed since it can be lodged by way of interim relief, not by summary relief. That changes everything. We have also refused, in Article 3, the creation of a special file. We did not want a new stigmatizing measure, preferring it to be included in the wanted list. We wanted people to be able to enter and leave this file, since the administrative ban is not a criminal sanction. We also wanted, in accordance with the promise we made to our voters, and even to the French,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u222	Which one?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u223	... that these provisions be evaluated. That is why, in Article 3a – introduced in committee – we have drawn inspiration from an article itself introduced into the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the light of this, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that we are in favour of the text, which has become ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u224	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u225	Today, our assembly is considering the bill tabled in the Senate by Bruno Retailleau, aimed at preventing violence during demonstrations and punishing their perpetrators. On January 7, the Prime Minister stated, in an interview with the newspaper, that this bill was "adopted by the Senate with a wisdom from the Government because we considered it to be a good proposal." Two weeks later, the Law Commission, at the request of the Minister of the Interior – and going even further than this request – literally detrigued the entire text by deleting its articles 1 and 5, and rewriting in full, as Sacha Houlié said, its articles 3 and 7. Finally, the majority spared only Article 2. In fact, the same Sacha Houlié had introduced this bill as a simple "legislative vehicle on which we have a substantive disagreement". How, then, can the Prime Minister speak of a "good proposal" if it is completely dismantled fifteen days later? So should we conclude that his words are just advertising effects? The new rewriting of the text could have been debated in committee. The debate on Rule 1 was finally postponed, on the pretext that rewriting would be done by way of amendment at the sitting. This evening, therefore, we are seized of a text which is crucial for public order and fundamental freedoms, but which we did not know when entering the Chamber, all the ins and outs of it! I understand, Mr.Minister, the urgent need to strike a fair balance between public order and freedom to demonstrate, but it is equally important to neutralize the breakers who mingle in the processions with the sole aim of bringing about an escalation of violence and causing injured people, both on the side of the law enforcement forces and on the side of the demonstrators. I have heard in committee the unanimous view that it is necessary to start the de-escalation of violence. For this, there is only one way: we must remove those you call the "crude" – and I call the "breakers" – from demonstrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u226	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u227	To that end, we must give ourselves the means to do so. Mr Minister, it should not be a question of stigmatizing yellow vests, which are mostly peaceful demonstrators with legitimate demands, but of putting an end to the reign of breakers, who take advantage of each social movement to dictate their law of violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u228	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u229	Preventing breakers from interfering with the processions means preventing amalgams that are made a little too quickly; It is above all to guarantee the protection of those who come to protest without any will of violence, the protection of passers-by, traders, our gendarmes, our police officers and our firefighters. For this, there is no miracle remedy: yes, it is necessary to give the public authority the opportunity to define areas around which police officers can search if the presence of breakers is particularly important. Yes, it is also necessary to set up a central, provisional and respectful register of public freedoms, allowing the collection of data of persons prohibited from protesting, in order to prevent them from returning to attack our fellow citizens. Of course, these measures must be balanced. There is no question of preventing the French from exercising freely their right to demonstrate. This law will only be fair if it is effective, and will only be effective if it is fair. In conclusion, Minister, I want to draw your attention to important facts. France is still in a state of turmoil. I would like to remind you that our enemies are those who want to attack our way of life, our society and our civilization. Thousands of police officers, gendarmes and intelligence specialists are mobilized 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to identify them and prevent them from taking action. However, due to incidents on the margins of the latest demonstrations, territorial intelligence now occupies most of its time to ensure security in the processions, to the detriment of the fight against terrorism. It is time for our intelligence services to re-focus on the real threats to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u230	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to give us the means to neutralise these breakers, who have nothing to do with the demonstrators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u232	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u233	Forty-nine years ago, in this Chamber – I don't know what time he was doing, or whether the president had argued weather to take account of a situation that we provincial MPs know all year long, especially when we live far away –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u234	Yes, you had to tell them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u235	Snow all year round? Don't exaggerate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u236	..., forty-nine years ago, I said, François Mitterrand spoke at about three o'clock in the morning to the guard of the seals, Minister of Justice, to the Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister Jacques Chaban-Delmas, to tell them in substance that the "anti-casseurs" law they proposed to the National Assembly was a law of police, which would remain a point of fixation for all democrats. On the right, inspired by the Prime Minister, you are making the same mistake today, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Taubira!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u238	Because you take the same approach, which is to oppose the defenders of security and the defenders of freedom. As forty-nine years ago, we Socialists want to defend these two principles, these two demands, these two priorities: the rule of law and security for each, and, at the same time, freedom, the capacity given to everyone to express their convictions and to manifest. I have the feeling that we are right to do so today as we were right 49 years ago, while those who fall into excess and favour either of these two priorities are quick to regret it bitterly. I know you, minister: we sat side by side for five years. I know that you have never had the envy or the intention to question public freedoms. It's not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u239	That hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u240	I'm happy to give it to you. Nevertheless, by supporting this bill, you are breaking not only with your convictions, but also with the balance, defined at the time by François Mitterrand with the correctness that one imagines, between the right to protest and the right to be safe. You are doing this through this bill, you are doing it at the request of the Republicans, but also of a part of the extreme right, and you are making a mistake, I repeat, in this way. For there is no opposition between these two principles, which must coexist in a democracy like ours. For my part, whenever I had the opportunity, I denounced the risk posed by the demonstrations. Even before the "Act I", in a gallery, in my department, I warned against those who were going to commit abuses, warned about what had happened at the time of the labour law. I have also said this publicly in my department, I have not seen the Members of the majority speaking with the same clarity; They were rather eager to be forgotten, at least in my home, and did not express the same desire for security to be guaranteed. At your hearing in the Committee on Laws after "Act III", I asked you whether it was possible to anticipate the abuses. You told me at the time that it wasn't possible. We saw very quickly, however, that this was the only answer that could be given: before we legislated on our freedoms, we had to first define a new doctrine. You told us earlier that you were willing to share the elements with our committee. I wish so; But, after seeing what happened in Biarritz in connection with the meeting open to diplomats, I believe that the state should reflect and avoid isolation in its certainties, in its first convictions and in its permanent mistakes. Think about it, minister, and take the time to discuss it. This law will become a binding point, and an anchor point for those who are often enemies of the Republic and who want to question your majority. I believe, for my part, in the name of the republican desire and the democratic ideal that enlivens me, that we will all pay dearly for this error, even those who, like me, will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u241	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u242	Mr President, minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen – or what is left of it at this time (Sourries) – Pierre-Joseph Proudhon said: "We must have lived in this isolor called the National Assembly in order to conceive how the men who are most completely unaware of the state of a country are almost always those who represent it. » This is reflected in the debate that we have had in committee, completely disconnected from the real, not based on any impact assessment or hearing. The Government has seized in haste, in order to make a political blow, a bill of which it should be recalled that it had been tabled by the Republicans in the Senate to fight against the "black blocks" that were vampirising demonstrations against the labour law. I cannot help but recall here – but I am not the first to do so – the way in which Article 1 has been studied: the amendments tabled by the rapporteur in extremis, the sub-amendments tabled by the Government this morning! The text, which is not devoid of interest, would, however, have deserved a parliamentary work as serious as it is precise, because it can bring a fatal blow to the right to demonstrate. I am thinking here of the ban on protesting which, instead of being a complementary penalty, becomes an autonomous penalty that prevents you from beating the pavement for three years, only because you are connected with potentially violent people. This kind of presumption of guilt is as arbitrary as it is dangerous. I am also thinking of those who organize undeclared demonstrations and who may be deprived of their civil, civil and family rights for this reason. Rather than giving us the means to work properly by allowing us to audition a number of people, as our colleague Guillaume Larrivé had asked, we were told that this was not the time, that we did not have time. However, while eighty-two investigations by the Inspectorate-General of the National Police are under way, the hearing of its director would have been the minimum, I believe, before the discussion of the text in the Chamber. Instead, we were allowed to engage in uruistic discussions where the majority asked us to vote for the deletion of articles without even knowing what would replace them – another way to discredit Parliament and, more generally, our institutions. It is the pale reflection of a majority who cannot learn the lessons of weeks of mobilization during which the French asked only one thing: respect – which also requires respect for the work of their representatives. Apart from ransacked parliamentary work, we cannot deal with this bill without speaking of the context in which it is voted, nor without denouncing the immense responsibility of the Government, which is constantly throwing the French against each other. For nearly twelve weeks, both the yellow vests and the police have been on the foot of war. Some are exhausted, others are on the edge. Both the press and the Government are constantly seeking to oppose each other. The hatred of the cop rises, fed by the new broken mouths of the demonstrations: this Saturday, it was Jérôme Rodrigues who was disfigured; On December 8, a twenty-year-old girl lost an eye for being there at the wrong time and place. On the other hand, the forces of law and order, which, in their vast majority, provide remarkable work, are at the end; Some in their ranks have not had a day of rest in six weeks while their working conditions are deplorable. However, it would be possible to bring about solutions without resorting to new judicial measures which, in the end, would only increase the anger of yellow vests and possible slippages on either side. In Germany, for example, overflows are much better controlled by simple measures and without the need to undermine the right to demonstrate. An example: instead of closing the nasse on the demonstrators when the tension rises, evacuation corridors are installed, as well as signs indicating the danger zones. We could have drawn inspiration from this example. Again, it would have taken time to conduct proper hearings rather than rush once again to give the French the illusion that the Government was acting. In addition, if you really wanted to fight the breakers, why not include floor sentences in your text to punish violence against law enforcement officials? If, of course, we have to ensure the physical security of the French – I want to believe that this is your objective – we must also ensure that this text is not a false good idea, which will be a severe blow to one of the fundamental freedoms of our society, without, however, bringing about calm or putting an end to the violence: a new law of circumstance, a new announcement effect, a new coup de com ', since you have become specialists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u243	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u244	A few months ago there was a movement calling for a halt to the increase in the carbon tax. Then came the problem of the hardness of life, the lack of social justice, the ras-le-bol fiscal, the lack of benchmarks or the lack of confidence in the elected ones. This anger comes from far away, and none of us should feel exempt from its responsibilities in this regard. The majority gave him a triple answer. Social, first of all, with EUR 10 billion re-injected to the most modest employees and pensioners; then, in the form of a great debate in which everyone is invited to speak so that we can find what unites us, who we are, what we want to become; Finally, the answer we are looking at today – the maintenance of public order. For weeks, the French have seen scenes of unbearable violence in the country: the forces of law and order struck; motorcyclists pursued by individuals, some of whom are masked or armed; sprayed windows; looted stores; symbols of the vandalized Republic; Marianne disfigured. The phenomenon of breakers has been known for a long time and is worsening. In the face of him, the public authorities seem to be poor. In 2015, with the Popelin-Mamère report, as under the current legislature with the Senate bill before us, parliamentarians from all walks of life tried to react to it. [[Rires on the SOC benches]] It is therefore obvious that the text is not a law of circumstance. And even though he would be? What would be guilty, wouldn't it be not to learn any lessons from the last few weeks? For years the idea of a permissive society where the rules of our common life would be indicative, optional. But the need for justice experienced by the French is not only a need for social or fiscal justice: it is also valid in matters of order. The group La République en marche wants to put an end to the baroque discourse of making believe that the right to manifest results in collateral damage that cannot be fought without undermining our individual freedoms. Are our freedoms protected when bullies traumatize entire cities, break windows, hit law enforcement, send projectiles without worrying about hurting or killing? In these conditions, where is the freedom to demonstrate, where is the freedom to go and come, to undertake, to be safe, not to fear for his life? They're gone! This text aims to protect our freedoms from those who want to break the Republic. This text tells the French that whoever we know broke a shelter on Saturday will not be able to come back and break the following Saturday. This text tells those whose windows have been broken that they will not have to pay twice, once as traders, once as taxpayers. This text tells police and gendarmes that a fact sheet will be created within the wanted persons file – RPF – in order to facilitate their research and identification of breakers. This text tells the few hundred people who take advantage of our flaws that the concealment of their faces will tomorrow be an offence punishable by a fine of 15,000 euros and a year's imprisonment. Today, some maintain ambiguity and do not seek to punish violent individuals. To justify themselves, they say that it is democracy that is being murdered, but at the same time they encourage insurrection. Others tell us that we would have emptied of its substance "the excellent text of the Senate" – a text that would never have passed, in its original version, the stage of the Constitutional Council and some passages of which would have posed serious problems for the forces of law and order. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With the majority group, we will do what the majority of French people expect from their leaders: we will allow the protestor to demonstrate, the merchant to trade, the French to go and come and the breaker to be neutralized and punished.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u245	The general discussion is closed. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1130.u246	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further to the discussion of the bill to prevent and punish violence during demonstrations. The meeting is adjourned.
