ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to transform the civil service (No. 1802, 1924).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u2	This morning, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, and heard the first speakers on section 6. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u3	This article opens a chapter to allow for increased use of contracts on all three sides of the public service. The IDU, Action and Independent Group is rather in favour of the principle of increasing the number of contracts in the public service; public employers, in particular territorial employers, are also in favour of it, because of the difficulties they encounter in the recruitment of incumbent officials, or even the impossibility of such recruitment, in certain situations. However, the method adopted by the Government, particularly in this article – which, despite its general nature, is rather vague – has contradictions and risks that make us say that another method could have been used. The problem with the various devices you create by this text is that you do not deal with access to the status of civil servant by competition in parallel with the opening of the sector to contract workers. In some situations, we risk competing with contractors in the recruitment process, and thus losing its attractiveness to the status of civil servant. However, you say that your philosophy is to ensure that the status of the public service remains at the heart of the functioning of the public service in France. The IDU, Action and Independent Group believes that it would have been necessary to proceed in another way, while being very clear about the objectives. Today, almost 20 per cent of public officials are under contract. What will tomorrow be the effects of the increased use of the contract and the various mechanisms that you propose? The impact assessment does not measure it, and it is quite difficult to predict it. But it would have been necessary to determine, according to a clearer method, which missions and jobs, because of their specificity, the need to protect the agents, or the obligations imposed on them by the statute – obligations of neutrality or secularism, for example – will have to remain in status – it will not necessarily be the jobs corresponding to the sovereign missions of the State – and which are the tasks which, now carried out by statutory officials, could be carried out tomorrow by contractors. Once this distinction is made clearly, we would no longer run the risk of competition between the statute and the contract. My group will therefore make a number of amendments to this effect, in order to try to improve things. I hope I have made sure that, if this debate is not held today in these clear terms, it will be held at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u4	We come to the amendments. I have before me several identical deletion amendments, Nos 151, 363, 402, 595 and 673. Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 151, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u5	Many speakers in our group have, since the beginning of the debate on this law, said that one of its essential aspects, if not its essential aspect – the massive use of contract workers – has given rise to fundamental disagreement and strong hostility on our part, for several reasons. First, because our conception of the public service draws its source from the texts of the French Revolution. Article 6 of the Declaration of Human Rights states that the law "must be the same for all, whether it protects or punishes". He continued: "All citizens who are equal in his eyes are also eligible for all dignity, places and public jobs, according to their capacity, and without distinction other than that of their virtues and talents. » In this sense, we consider that the massive recourse to contract workers provided for in this article turns our backs on the legacy of the French Revolution, which founded the status of the civil service in French, and put an end to the offices and other charges, as well as to the whole system of venal charges. Beyond this break with the great and beautiful history of the civil service in our country, the massive use of contract workers carries many risks. The first danger is that we will change the very nature of public employment. An official is not subject to a contract, but to the law, which obliges him to work for the general interest: it is radically different. Moreover, the status of public servant – thus not being recruited by contract – is also the way to protect our public service – and the evidence is that it is better protected, in this respect, than those of many other countries – against clientelism and corruption. It is also the way to make this public service a guarantor of secularism, and nobody, I hope, dares to question the need in the public service, as elsewhere. On the other hand, the contractualization will exacerbate the statutory precariousness. It is also a threat to equality between men and women, because it is known that contract recruitment exacerbates inequalities between men and women more than statutory recruitment. Anyway, I could go on with this listing for a long time... [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] You do not confront the status of the public service in a face-to-face assumed, but you use a bias: the massive use of contract workers is an oblique way of moving towards a gradual extinction of the status of the public service, and thus to end this French exception that many countries face us: a civil service under statute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u6	I call Mr Robin Reda to support Amendment No. 363.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u7	It is also a deletion amendment, in a spirit quite similar to what Mr Little has just said, but with some nuances. Personally – and I know that many of my colleagues share this view – I am not hostile to contracting, including for the public service. I think that one can want to serve the state, a territorial community or a public hospital, without necessarily wanting to serve them all his life, or want to enter the status of the public service. Some contractors are no less motivated by a sense of public interest and the quality of their mission than by incumbent officials. But the problem with this clause and your bill, in general, is the lack of transparency, and a form of insinuity: it is well known that in the long run you want the status of the public service to be extinguished for all public servants. Macron has said on many occasions that he does not like the statutes, including the status of the public service. The Prime Minister also called into question the status of the civil service in several exchanges. One of your roommates in Bercy, not so long ago, defended himself the pure and simple suppression of the territorial civil service. We know, therefore, that you are moving towards the extinction of the status of the public service. This is where we do not follow you: to want the complete extinction of the status of the public service, it is the "right Trocadéro", that Mr. Philippe fustige. We want to go a step further: we must maintain a status of civil servant for the sovereign missions of the State, and even strengthen the protection of civil servants, who work every day for the French State, on security, safety and education. But we also need to move towards greater contracting out of more temporary, more exceptional, or specific tasks requiring exchanges between the public and the private sector. This article is very insidious, because it serves you to extend a ersatz of civil service status, as a consolation package for the day when you say, more clearly, perhaps, that the reform you really want is the total elimination of the status of civil servants. We do not agree with that: it is the shade and ambition that are lacking in your bill. We are returning, in fact, to what we have been saying since the beginning of this discussion. Not only has this law been prematurely prepared, but it does not raise the real question of the status of the civil service: what status of the civil service, for what tasks of the public service, and for what quality of public service?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u8	Amendment No 402 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended. I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 595.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u9	There's the contract and there's the status. Status implies competition, and we believe that the competition, without being perfect, remains the most fair and effective method of identifying the most capable of performing public service functions, the most egalitarian, above all. This article attempts to frame the recruitment of contract staff by creating a procedure that would ensure equal access to public employment, including for contract staff. However, it appears that the procedure envisaged will be defined by decree in the Council of State. However, this has been said several times this morning, the Government committed itself to publishing the draft decrees together with the draft law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u10	Where are we?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u11	It is therefore, once again, Parliament's prerogatives that are being violated. We refuse to give the Government a blank opinion on the guarantees on which it asks us to take a decision. That is why this amendment is intended to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u12	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 673.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u13	We oppose the replacement of public servants by contractors in the public service. Article 6 provides for a procedure for the recruitment of contract workers in permanent employment, which ensures equal access to public employment on all three sides of the civil service, in accordance with article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. But the modalities of this procedure defined by decree in the Council of State can be adapted "in the light of the hierarchical level, the nature of the functions, or the size of the local authorities or the public institution". While this article purports to defend the principle of equal access to public employment, the total lack of clarity on recruitment modalities and possible derogations threatens equal access to the public service. The consecration of the contract as a method of recruitment refers to the logic of civil service breakdown that has been raging for more than ten years, as shown in our subsequent amendments. One example: the report of the Higher Council of the Territorial Civil Service on the precariousness in this civil service, dated 16 March 2011, identified a record precariousness in Réunion: only 25 per cent of territorial civil servants were in office, compared with 75 per cent in Hexagon. At the meeting, the doubt about the recruitment of public officials by the communities is still very important – clientelism, family jobs, and I pass by... To facilitate the recruitment of contractors on permanent jobs is to facilitate possible contentious cases or promote doubt. If we need a real plan to reduce the precariousness of the agents, we must respect the rules, in particular equality and legality in the powers. However, I note that the Government prefers to jeopardize the well-being of agents and, at the same time, the well-being of families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u14	Mrs Emilie Chalas, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u15	I am against these deletion amendments. I would point out that Article 6 lays down the principle that the recruitment of contract staff in order to fill permanent posts will be carried out after a procedure has been established to ensure equal access to public posts, in accordance with procedures laid down by regulation. The aim here is to enshrine by law the principle of transparency, in line with the principle of equal access to public employment, proclaimed in article 6 of the 1789 Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights and guaranteed by the Constitutional Council, regardless of the method of recruitment. It is therefore logical to establish a framework for the contractual recruitment procedure, since public employers will be free to use it in an increasing number of situations. It is a requirement of transparency and equality which requires, on the one hand, the optimal publicity of the jobs to be filled, on the other hand, the determination of objective selection criteria, in order to distinguish only the merits and talents specific to each.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u16	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Public Affairs and Public Accounts, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u17	We will examine, in a moment, articles 7 et seq., which expand the conditions under which public employers may use contract workers. This Article 6 establishes the selection processes for contract agents: even if this text would make a different choice, not leading to the widening of the conditions of use of the contract, Article 6 would be justified. Article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights lays down the principle of equal access to public employment. There are now 1 million contractors in the public service; however, procedures may differ from one public employer to another. The rapporteur recalled this: the Constitutional Council, by its constant jurisprudence, pays particular attention to this point. This article therefore reflects our determination to provide in law the basis for this government, as well as all its successors, to make a decree setting out the conditions for the recruitment of contract agents. Arrangements have already been made: I would like to remind them. A decree of 28 December 2018 created a common digital space, Place de l'emploi publique, on which all public employers are required to declare the vacancies offered for mobility or assignment, whether they are jobs held or contract for more than one year. This decree provided for the minimum duration of advertising of offers, so as to guarantee equal access. In this way, we have responded, from a regulatory point of view, to the issue of deadlines for publication. The decree, which we ask you to authorize the Government to take, will define and regulate the procedure for the recruitment of contract staff. It may include the composition of the application file or the terms and conditions for the examination of applications. The decree may thus provide for the use of interviews or specify that the same jury, composed of the same persons, will have to examine all the applications, in order to guarantee equality between the different candidates. It will also establish the principle of double validation or decide on issues related to the articulation of the applications of contractors and incumbents to the same posts, including the conditions of examination and training. In the same way, we will introduce provisions on the new declaration of vacancy in the event of unsuccessful recruitment. We are therefore committed to ensuring transparency and equality in the recruitment of contractors and thereby securing procedures. I repeat: the public service now has 1 million contract jobs. Even if we do not expand the terms of contract recruitment, we would need this article to set a general framework. In listening to some of the interventions, I see that setting it is important and useful: the contractors who listen to us must feel that their recruitment would necessarily be based on nepotism rather than competence and that their commitment would be less than that of their incumbent colleagues. It is a bad trial for them: the contractors who serve in the public service today have the same commitment and the same qualities and invest in the same way to serve the public. Opinion against the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u18	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u19	I am grateful to the Secretary of State for refocusing the debate on the real purpose of clause 6 of the bill, because I had the impression, hearing the interventions of Messrs. Little and Reda, to whom I am sensitive – in another life, I have been treated as a public servant and therefore I am truly committed to the status of the public service – that they oppose the contractors to the incumbents, which is a mistake to me. We are already using contractors and they are, very often, excellent. We all too often hear that competitive recruitment would guarantee excellence, while staff recruited and contracted would be of lower quality. That's not true. Excellence is on both sides. I also do not know that this text would allow the recruitment of a police commissioner or a magistrate by contract. This text strikes a balance: the purpose of Article 6 is to make the recruitment of contract workers more transparent. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote for the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u20	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u21	Articles 6 et seq. show that we are dealing only with a text of gesticulation. You are dealing with a subject, the public service, which is important to everyone: we all believe that proposals should be made to make it evolve, even if the solutions proposed on both sides are not unanimous. But articles 6 et seq. make no choice: it's so much simpler like that! Because the recruitment of public servants is becoming difficult, because, in particular, you have difficulty recruiting teachers or nurses, you want to extend the recruitment by contract, to compensate for the lack of candidates in the competitions. You forget that we're already recruiting teachers and nurses through contract and that we're having a hard time doing it! It is not by widening this path, which is already being taken, that recruitment problems will be solved. [[Applause on several benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] In doing so, you spare yourself a reflection that is, in our view, essential: it concerns the perimeter of the State. Rather than asking you about the tasks that the State should cease to carry out itself, because they are not within its competence and that, in order to do its job properly, it should concentrate on its primary competences, particularly those of the Regalian Republic, for which the agents of the State must have a special status, you prefer to broaden the scope of recruitment by contract. Whether you're a police officer, a doctor, a teacher, a central administration officer or a deconcentrated officer: recruitment through contract does not pose any problems to you! Between a statutory agent and a contractual agent, there would finally be no difference! Instead, ask yourself about the priority tasks of the State and those for which it may be responsible, for example, for local and regional authorities. Your lack of reflection on the definition of the civil service and the scope of the State's intervention is implausible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u22	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u23	We are many here who have led local authorities: all of us, including the Communists, have already hired contractors. It is therefore neither a big word nor an insult to the public service. The whole thing is about the conditions that govern these hirings: often it is because the Public Service grid did not provide for statutory employment for the position. As a result, some community services, including communications services, were forced to hire contractors. On the other hand, when statutory jobs existed, we did not hire contract workers by ethical requirement: once people had the necessary skills, they were hired as auxiliaries or trainees before being titularized. [[Smile]] However, the rapporteur has repeatedly suggested that the contract should be used to verify whether the staff member recruited is the right one, as in private companies. The first time I worked – a long time ago, it's true – I did it as a "little Bar", that is, as part of the " Raymond Barre internships", a renewed internship for six months, before signing a one-year contract and then a CDI: my employer used all the means at his disposal to check whether I was fit, not technically – I was – but politically: for example, if I was not a trade unionist. I was wise for three years before I freed myself forty-eight hours after signing my CDI. That's what you're proposing, with Article 6. You have also given some details, Mr. Secretary of State, on how recruitment would be conducted: I know from experience that at present a position can attract up to 200 candidates! If I follow you, will it be necessary to conduct 200 interviews? I hope that will not be the case. When my services were recruiting, they did a first screening to call interviews only those candidates whose profiles corresponded to the position. I ask you, Secretary of State, to reassure us on this point: will the recruitment framework that you will set be the same as the one that respectable communities apply? In any case, it was out of the question, for us, to recruit at the head of the client or by nepotism, for example the son of a comrade on this criterion alone. We recruited an agent based on his skills and after an interview. When I was mayor, the recruitment commission was made up, on an equal basis, of two executives and two elected officials: the elected representatives were therefore not the majority – it was up to the municipal council to validate the recruitment. These criteria seem correct to me: they should be able to be maintained locally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u24	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u25	If we have understood the statements made by the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, there must no longer be any difference between contractual and statutory jobs. You argue that Article 6 will make recruitment more transparent while maintaining the principle of equality: a formal framework that we could approve. However, if adopted, what fundamental difference will remain between civil servants and contractors? Why not recruit contractors to complete all missions, as soon as the principle of equality and transparency are ensured in the recruitment process? This is where the heart of our disagreement with the majority lies: you consider that the status of public servant should no longer be different from that of private law agents: both should end up being equivalent. On the contrary, the status of civil servant must, in our view, be accompanied by guarantees that must be maintained, even strengthened and developed, because they make a difference. We will certainly disagree with our colleagues in the Republican Group on the reduction of the scope of the State to the strictly regal area, since the status of civil servant should be reserved only for agents carrying out regal missions. Today, with the new tasks that should be given to the civil service, such as investments in environmental transition, this status should be strengthened and extended to many more sectors. The Staff Regulations guarantee the independence, protection and sense of the general interest of civil servants. Of course, this does not mean that private law personnel would be less guided by good feelings or benevolence: there are very good people who do their work very well. But contractors are not linked in the same way to their employers as civil servants, because the meaning of the State and the public service is different, which is quite legitimate. We oppose this article, because it "trivializes" the status of public servant and extends the recruitment of contract workers to many sectors. Finally, Mr. Secretary of State, you said that the many contractors who look at us might think that their investment is being called into question. We have been questioned by the trade unions on the subject: indeed, many contract workers look at us, and it is these same people, working for example in education or health, who have long been asking for a way out of the precariousness suffered by a majority of them, including by being titularized, because it would give them more security and protection. You do not respond to their request: on the contrary, you question the status of civil servant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u26	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u27	There is no reform of the civil service which, inherently, does not carry with it a reform of the State. I repeat, because you claim that the discussions are technical, whereas they are obviously political. You are apprehensive of the issue of status from the grievor's point of view. I analyse it from the point of view of public authority, of the general interest, of the French concept of public service. The status of the civil service, created in 1946 and extended in 1983, is not the result of chance, but of a very long maturation since the French Revolution, and even before. By opening up the use of contract workers, particularly for the management jobs of the three public offices, this is what you are shaking! It is not a question of saying that an official is necessarily more competent and more qualified than a contractual, but we are in a new phase of "secularization": it is necessary to remove the public power from the influence, not from the church, but from the particular interests and the "short-termism" of the markets. Public officials need no less protection. This is what the increased use of contract workers is all about. It says something about how you view public action, and it's consistent with your belief that you have to manage the state as a business. I warn you, because it is not a question of defending the so-called privileges of a few, but of defending the general interest against the sum of particular interests and the abuse of power of private power, which is today unlimited. Today I discover that the convictions of some can go from Henri Emmanuelli to Frédéric Bastiat. It turns out that both were Landais and Mugron, but that still surprises!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u28	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u29	I thank the Secretary of State for a little clarification of the content of the decree which will lay down the conditions for recruitment, but I would like to have some further clarification. First, what order would the advertising deadline be? In certain circumstances, the call for applications for recruitment of contract workers may be justified by a form of urgency, which may be contradictory to the principle of an incompressible time limit for advertising. Then we set rules for the formation of contract recruitment boards. Depending on the job category concerned, the scope of the jury may be scalable: the Director General of Community Services is not recruited in the same way as a cleaning service agent – and my remarks are by no means pejorative: the technicality is not the same, so the board members will not be the same. In addition, in parallel, will the conditions laid down for the recruitment of contractors apply to the recruitment of incumbent officials? One can very well imagine recruiting an employee under conditions that do not respect fairness between public servants: the board may have one or more persons, or may be different from one candidate to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u30	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u31	Secretary of State, I have two questions for you. The first concerns respect for the principle of equal access to public employment proclaimed in the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. Article 32 of the 1983 Act lays down a condition for the recruitment of contract workers: the assessment of their ability to perform the functions to be filled. You say that you are simply adding to this already existing condition that of job advertising. Many of us consider that these guarantees are not sufficient, and that you have a reductive vision of the role of the legislator. In the light of article 32 of the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Council on this subject, in particular the 1991 decision referred to by the Council of State, which recalls the role of the legislator in this matter, it is necessary to go a little further and to include in the law certain guarantees that you plan to specify in the decree. The second question is perhaps more serious, and it has been at the heart of our discussions since yesterday: it concerns the functional limit of recourse to the contract. How far are you going to extend the possibility of using contract workers for permanent jobs? Some parliamentarians have understood that there would never be contract teachers, but we all know that there are already a number of them. Where will the limit be? I thought I had read, in an earlier version of the text, that it would be impossible to use contract workers when there was a public service school, but I can't find this provision, which, however, reassured me. [[Mr Vallaud and Mr Lecoq applaud]] That said, even if it were included in the text, that would not be a sufficient response, since the President of the Republic had announced the abolition of certain schools in the public service, in particular that of the ENA. Thus, since there will no longer be a public service school providing access to the corps of civilian administrators, for example, who are now assigned to ministries, recruitment may be much wider. Tomorrow, can a deputy director of the National Police, a departmental director of public finances, a senior college officer be a contractual agent? One of the serious shortcomings of your text is that you are detriculating by "mapping" the status, where we were entitled to expect a definition by mission: it was necessary to distinguish those which must be protected by the status from those which may be open to contract workers, because they use skills that are also found in the private sector. You have not done this work, and that is the weakness of your entire text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u32	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u33	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u34	Mr Marleix, you will find the reference to public service schools in Article 7. I repeat, Article 6 provides for a decree which will set out precisely how contract agents are to be selected, in general. These provisions would have an interest even if we did not extend the conditions for recourse to the contract, as much as it is necessary to secure the recruitment of the million contractors we expect today, and in any case those who would be destined to join us. Then, in response to the general discussion, I had the opportunity to say that trades requiring powers of public authority – and not just them – cannot be open to contract agents. Similarly, we will set a number of training conditions. Mr. Lecoq and Mr. Brindeau asked me about the recruitment procedure. The Decree of 28 December 2018 on the obligation to advertise vacant jobs imposes in particular advertising on a single common digital space, which corresponded to a request from all the social partners. This decree supplements, in fact, the decree of 9 May 1995, which lays down the conditions for the registration of candidates in the competition for admission to the public service of the State and the hospital public service, and specifies the time limits for advertising: for example, the period between the opening and closing of registrations, or the publication of vacancies, may not be less than one month. We have included these provisions in the decree of December 28, 2018, which also provides for the modalities for acknowledgment of receipt of the application submitted electronically, the possibility of modifying the file until the closing date, and the possibility of transmitting some of the documents after the closing date. We will supplement these provisions with the decree provided for in Article 6, specifying that, in the event of a hearing of candidates who have been pre-selected, it is carried out by the same persons, as this is one of the conditions of equality in the examination of the application.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u35	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u36	Unfortunately, in the case of massive recruitments, I am thinking in particular of the recruitments carried out by management centres for jobs such as that of the specialized territorial agents of the nursery schools – ATSEM – there may be up to 650 or 700 candidates present: this requires the provision of selection boards, and candidates are therefore not heard by the same people, whereas an eligibility oral is based on a share of subjectivity, whatever is done and whatever is written in the texts. I come to the clarification requested by Mr Lecoq. First, the Order will of course provide for the possibility, particularly for communities, to take into account their size. We will not ask a community of three, four or ten officers to adopt a selection procedure identical to that of a community of hundreds or thousands of officers. On the other hand, some elements seem to us to be transversal to all the applications submitted: the composition of these applications; the accuracy, in the advertisement, of the methods of recruitment, in particular the required documents; the organisation of the procedure; the guarantee of double validation, which implies that the decision is taken by at least two persons, regardless of the size of the community, and not by the only direct supervisor concerned. Lastly, he called for the parallelism of the forms between the recruitment of civil servants and that of contract workers. We agree with this logic, but the recruitment modalities and mobility opportunities of public service incumbents differ from those of contractors. In some cases, it will be necessary to identify the vacancy in order to have recourse to a contract. In other cases, recruitment can already be carried out in an undifferentiated manner. A principle of total similarity between the recruitment of a incumbent and that of a contractor cannot be established, particularly in view of the differences between the staff, the managers and the contractual competitions. This also depends on the type of employment concerned. That is where we are in terms of equal access to employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u37	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor to support Amendment No. 357.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u38	We have already had a small exchange in committee of laws on this amendment, which may be similar to an editorial amendment since it is simply intended to change the order of the provisions of Article 6. Unlike the authors of the deletion amendments we have just examined, I consider it an excellent thing that Article 6 lays down the principle of equal access to public employment and establishes guarantees in this respect. It is also a good thing that contractors bring diversity and mobility. On the other hand, I wonder about the wording chosen: since we want to guarantee equal access to public employment, why do we start by providing reservations, exceptions or derogations instead of stating the principle? Equal access to public employment is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, but also by treaty texts such as Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights or the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. While many treaty texts set out the principle of non-discrimination, particularly in recruitment, I still do not understand why section 6 of this bill begins by setting out exceptions, not a principle. My proposed wording would be highly symbolic in terms of public service recruitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u39	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u40	Indeed, we had this discussion in committee. I know, my dear colleague, that I have not been able to convince you, but perhaps the Secretary of State can try to do so... For my part, I ask you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, I'll give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u41	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u42	The rapporteur recalled that we had raised this issue in committee. Your amendment has given rise to a debate, including within my services, which is based on legal and legal concepts. Why do we prefer our writing to yours? If you set out a number of principles and end the paragraph by stating that jobs at the discretion of the Government are not subject to these rules, this means, in a way, that all jobs fall within the same block and that a special case is made for jobs at the discretion of the Government. On the other hand, starting with the exception applicable to jobs at the discretion of the Government, we could suggest – I use the conditional because, I repeat, it is a debate of jurists and jurists, some aspects of which may seem a little absconic – that these jobs are so special that they do not fall within the same bloc as other public service jobs; For example, their holders are appointed to the Council of Ministers, and the Government has a real opportunity to appoint whom it wishes, even if hearings committees are organized within the General Secretariat of the Government. Removing these jobs from the bloc before setting out the principles applicable to the bloc seems more balanced or simpler than starting with a principle before specifying that certain jobs are exempt from it. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, I'll give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u43	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 596.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u44	The aim of this withdrawal amendment is to clarify the nature of the procedure applicable to the recruitment of contract staff by providing that it is a selection procedure. As a reminder, the definition of the word "selection" in the Larousse dictionary is as follows: "action to choose the people or things that are best suited." This word therefore does not refer to the only notion of competition, because one can choose in many ways.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u45	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u46	Although I understand the meaning of this amendment, I give it an unfavorable opinion. The concept of procedure includes, of course, the strict procedures for selecting candidates, but it has a broader meaning which ultimately corresponds to the framework of contractual recruitment, which, for example, provides for the advertising of vacancies and job creation, in accordance with the need for transparency. Equal access to public employment and the treatment of candidates is, of course, guaranteed by the current wording of Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u47	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 248.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u48	I have tabled this amendment to alert you to the complexity of the selection process for candidates. I see a lot of rules about the nature of the duties, the size of the community or the institution... All of this seems to me to be a carcan that would prevent public managers from making a choice that truly matches them and takes into account the specificity of a particular situation. Having said that, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u49	I have before me two amendments to the supplementary article after Article 6. I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 304.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u50	The aim of this amendment is to propose a different, much clearer approach to amending Article 3 of the Act of 13 July 1983 by honestly explaining that there are two modes of access to the public service and two categories of public employment. This is what you create: assume it! It would be a matter of distinguishing, on the one hand, the missions intended to be carried out by statutory staff, given the sensitivity of the tasks or their seriousness – the scope of these missions would not necessarily be limited to the functions of Parliament, it is a matter of political choices that would merit debate – and on the other hand, the missions that can be carried out by contractual staff recruited according to their profile. By not making this distinction, you create confusion, insecurity in the rest of the text. With this amendment, we give you the opportunity to correct the gunshot and make your bill a little more coherent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u52	I do not share your analysis of this bill. Nor am I in favour of the conceptual reversal that you want to make with this amendment. It is necessary to maintain the principle laid down in Article 3 of the Act of 13 July 1983 that permanent jobs are filled by officials, except for exceptions. This provision does not prevent the modernization of our public service and the expansion of the use of contracts, according to the needs of public employers and not in a dogmatic manner. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u53	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u54	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u55	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u56	I am not alone in calling for this coherence of my wishes. My request joins one of the main proposals of the White Paper on the Future of the Public Service presented by Jean-Ludovic Silicani to the Minister of the Public Service in 2008, which invited us to make a real transformation of the public service – that is, I believe, the title of your bill. However, you are not in the process of transformation: you add to the five exceptional cases of recourse to the contract three other exceptional cases, including public management jobs of the State. At the end of the day, what you do doesn't look like much. In fact, the Conseil d'État pointed out to you in its opinion that it was difficult to distinguish between your approach to the use of contractors and that all this was a draft. I regret that you do not take this opportunity to improve your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u57	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 594.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u58	This amendment introduces into the general statute of the civil service the impossibility of reserving public employment to a contractual agent in the event of a vacancy. The vacancy notice may only indicate that such employment is likely to be filled by a contractual agent. This principle is recognized by the jurisprudence of the Council of State but does not appear in the Act of 13 July 1983 on the rights and obligations of civil servants. To be very precise, this principle is only present in the Act of 26 January 1984 on statutory provisions relating to the territorial civil service. In short, the aim of this amendment is to introduce into the law the constant jurisprudence of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u59	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u60	As you yourself have said, this principle applies consistently and is provided for in the statutory laws, in particular in Article 34 of the Act of 26 January 1984. Moreover, this requirement is strictly verified by the jurisprudence of the Council of State, which you also referred to. There is no ambiguity on this point. The obligation to advertise the vacancy is also required where the position to be filled concerns a job held by a non-employed official whose contract expires, as specified by a judgment of the Administrative Court of Appeal of Marseilles on 3 June 2008. In these circumstances, I believe that your amendment is already satisfactory and that there is no need to go further. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u62	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u63	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u64	I do not agree that this principle is contained in section 34 of the Act of 26 January 1984. However, I do not think he is for the other two public offices. So you cannot say that my amendment is satisfied unless you have read it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u65	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u66	Without wishing to oppose civil servants and contract workers, each of whom measures efficiency and probity on a daily basis, the extension of the use of the contract for management jobs poses a major risk in terms of the continuity of public action. In committee, Mr. Secretary of State, you spoke of "functional positions." But what will happen if there is disagreement between the territorial authority and the contractor? What if there's a political alternation? A Director General of Services – DGS – must not become a cabinet employee. In addition, you have also made an effort in committee to specify that the decrees implementing Article 7 will also lay down the conditions for the remuneration of contracted staff. This precision certainly appeases fears but does not eliminate them. In order to avoid any excess in the remuneration of contract workers, Amendment No 590, which our group will defend earlier, would at least ensure that the contract workers who will hold these positions will not be able to be paid better than an official in the same job.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u67	Mr. Éric Poulliat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u68	The use of contract workers for management jobs in local and regional authorities and their groups will clearly help to diversify the profiles and to benefit from the highly needed experience and skills of the communities. I therefore welcome this provision, which I agree with. However, it seems to me important to provide for a training scheme for these contractors. It would be useful to organize mandatory integration training for contractors, as is the case for civil servants, for at least two reasons. The first is that the public service is intended to satisfy the general interest. However, and without any intention of stigmatizing people from the private sector by suggesting that they would not have a sense of public interest, it seems to me that there are sometimes different values and principles to which these people have not necessarily been sensitized and which they need to carry out their mission. In short, they need to acquire a culture of public service. This training, particularly in the territorial civil service, would meet this need and enable them to acquire a culture that is also essential to spread among our citizens. This joint training would also enhance the sense of belonging to the working community of contract workers and civil servants, as well as reduce gaps in representation that sometimes arise between staff members. Under the delegation to local and regional authorities, I had proposed an amendment aimed at introducing such compulsory minimum training, focusing in particular on the general principles of local and regional authority law and public service law, as well as on ethics and the prevention of conflicts of interest. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been declared admissible and I therefore take this opportunity to request further clarification of the Government's commitment to the training and integration of contract workers, particularly in the territorial civil service. I would also like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to an issue which requires all the necessary rigour and precision: as co-rapporteur, together with Mr Eric Diard, of a fact-finding mission on radicalisation in public services, I was able to see that the issue of contractors in the public service was a sensitive one. In view of the challenges of public security and the prevention of radicalisation, on which the Government has made a strong commitment, particularly in the framework of the Prime Minister's national plan for the prevention of radicalisation, I also propose the integration of a component for the prevention of radicalisation in the framework of these trainings for contract agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u69	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u70	Much is said about contract workers, but the proposed approach is logical. The notions of public service and public service indeed cover real differences, as several speakers have said. Moreover, these contractors will not be agents of private law, as I heard too much this afternoon, but of public law. All this has to be put in the right order if we want to follow a certain logic, especially the one that I am going to defend now. I have read the draft and heard the discussions and, in particular, I have often heard in committee that the purpose of hiring contract workers would be to introduce competence and improve management techniques. However, this does not seem to be the right way to address the issue. First of all, it is not true: the statutory managers of the public service have competence, they have received training and they can possess various management techniques, tools and knowledge. On the other hand – and that is why I am intervening to defend this article, to which I am very favorable – we must no longer sign up for a professional career where, as in the past, we would pass a competition for a completely linear career. In today's society, some people want to work for ten years in the community, then work elsewhere for five or ten years before returning. However, the fact that a competition is a commitment – the public service competitions are indeed very difficult and those who have passed them can make the choice to stay. On the other hand, I have seen too much in my career as a community director of people who had enormous skills, who were very good managers and had a real sense of public service, but who told me that they did not want to take the competition and therefore did not go to management positions and went elsewhere, because the requirement to enter a public service competition did not allow them to work in the communities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore support this article, which will keep people who are truly in the spirit that I have just defended. I will also support an amendment which should allow us to go even further.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u71	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u72	Mr. Secretary of State, this article perfectly illustrates your conception of the public service, which, as you have just been reminded, is for you only a bridge, a temporary step in a professional career: you must therefore facilitate, to use your terms, "mobility" and round-trips between the public and the private,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u73	Like Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u74	... and align the public with the private sector by increasing the possibilities of recourse to the contract in all categories of jobs in the three public offices. It is, in fact, a matter of establishing a private-public collusive system, in order to enable the private sector to gain control of the state apparatus. As Anicet Le Pors – who knows about it – points out perfectly in a forum published by Le Monde on April 2, 2019, this bill, and this article in particular, are "a breach of the public service whose neutrality is threatened by the massive use of contract workers at all levels, allowing private company managers to hold managerial positions of administrations, to form networks of influence there before returning to their business. [...] Retro-pantouflages of senior officials – returning to the state service after spending a few years in the private sector of which they have married the managerial ideology – will thus lead to the confusion of the purposes of the private and the public, an increased risk of conflicts of interest, the capture of public action by the financial oligarchy. The objective is to make the contract of individual private law the major social reference applicable to both the public and the private sector. However, in contrast to your vision, the French public service model is characterized by the choice to place the public servant in a statutory and regulatory position – not a contractual one – vis-à-vis the public administration, as well as by the choice to assign the permanent jobs of public authorities to public servants. The reasons, which have been recalled, are simple and clear: the fundamental principle of the status of the public service is to ensure that the public interest prevails over any other. The official is thus recruited by competition, as it is a guarantee of equal treatment of candidates on the basis of their merits alone, but it is also a guarantee of independence and neutrality in relation to the particular interests. The official is in the service of the general interest, responsible to the nation, unlike the employee of the private enterprise, bound to his employer by a contract that "does the law of the parties" in accordance with article 1134 of the Civil Code. The status of the official thus relates him to the general interest rather than referring him to particular interests – his own or that of his hierarchy, customers or users. In this sense, its status protects the public service by allowing the public servant to play the role of a neutral body, above the parties – recourse in the event of conflicts of interest and guarantees for everyone, regardless of their situation, to be treated fairly and in accordance with the law. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I will conclude with some interesting remarks made by the Council of State in its opinion of 21 March 2019: "The multiplication of the already numerous possibilities to recruit contract agents, without it being possible to identify proposed modifications of simple and clear criteria, does not contribute to the readability of the scheme or to the proper assessment of its consequences. The Council of State also regrets that the impact assessment was provided to it four days after its referral, which is, in our view, indicative of the Government's lack of flexibility, and states that it "does not provide any figures as to the number of staff awaiting assignment or any elements relating to the possible impact of a significant increase in the number of contract staff holding, under open-ended contracts, all types of jobs in the public service on the career development of the incumbents and on the coexistence of these two categories of staff who will now compete for access to executive positions. Basically, the Council of State is far from addressing you with satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u75	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u76	Article 7 has two objects. First of all, it provides for the opening of contract jobs in management positions in the State, territorial and hospital civil service, which is obviously a cause for concern. You said, Mr. Secretary of State, that your text was very much expected. However, I have not seen any demonstrations of impatience on the streets, but rather expressions of concern, particularly from young public servants who have passed competitions and will see tomorrow people who have not passed through their careers. I regret that you have not answered much about this. What guarantees can you give? What's your vision? What can you say to these young people, who are perhaps still preparing administrative competitions for territorial attaché, state attaché or engineer, to make them want to go through the preparation of these competitions and not to close their books by thinking that in the future their careers will be, anyway, short-circuited. We haven't heard much about it. However, what you are creating and the somewhat strange and not very visible way in which you instill the contract creates a concern, to which you must respond. Secondly, and to return to the question I asked you earlier, what limits do you set for the recruitment of contract workers? You just referred me to article 7. I had retained hearings that I had been able to conduct with trade union organizations, and that there would be no recruitment of contract workers where there was a public service school. In other words, there would be no contract teachers as long as there were ESPEs, or higher schools of faculty and education, no contract police officers because there were police schools, no contract police commissioners because there was a police commissioner's school, and no contract magistrates because we had a National Judicial School. Now, by engaging in some sort of archaeology of the text, I can see no more locks – neither to Article 7, to which you referred me, nor to Article 9, which refers to permanent jobs. So if there is no lock that protects like jobs on which it is not possible to recruit contractors for those for which there are public service schools, what you are doing is quite serious and rather embarrassing. I am sorry to ask again, even indirectly, some of our colleagues, but what, for example, would such a magistrate present with us today if we were to open up the prospect of recruiting contract magistrates? There's a problem here. Mr Secretary of State, you need to be very clear and precise on this point: what is the limit? What are the jobs on which you can guarantee us – and by what legal means in this text? –, that there will be no recourse to contractors where it would not be healthy if there were?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u77	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u78	I agree at least at the very beginning with the intervention of our colleague from the majority who defended this article: one cannot say, to justify the latter and the will of the Government, that there is a problem of competence in the public service, because there are among the managers and in all categories very high-level, highly competent, trained people who pass a competition which you have stressed the very high level and which are continuously forming. Why, then, would we want to make more use of contract workers? If it is not a question of competence, would it be a matter of new needs, which would be considered temporary? They should then be clearly identified. You have raised the issue of mobility, but it is already possible in the public service, and broad enough for bridges to exist. If there are gaps and weaknesses, let's discuss them and see how we can re-create bridges within the Public Service. All possible and conceivable jobs are found in the State, territorial and hospital civil service, and new fields should be opened. Mobility is possible and must be facilitated: let us then discuss, adopt texts, that the Government proposes decrees facilitating mobility! There is no need for contractual arrangements to allow mobility or to guarantee the level of competence. [["Very good! » on the benches of the GDR group]] I therefore come back to my fundamental question: why do you increase contract positions, whether in categories C, B or A, or in management positions, except because you have in mind the development of the recruitment of these contractors to the detriment of the status, which you want to reduce? In this case, it should be assumed and explained how this contractual status offers the same guarantees of defence of the general interest as that of civil servants. Mr Poulliat's intervention on the need to train contractors in a culture of public service was quite enlightening: that is precisely the purpose of the statute! If you want to train contract workers in this culture, they should be allowed to become civil servants! The whole issue of the statute is precisely to ensure a culture of the general interest, with openness and access for all. That is what makes the very meaning of the statute, unless we consider that there is no longer a need for it. It would then be necessary to explain how a contractor would do better than a civil servant in terms of skills, mobility or respect for that spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u79	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u80	I would like to reply to this series of interventions on Article 7. First of all, I would like to welcome the intervention of our colleague Alain Perea, whom I found particularly relevant, particularly when he referred to the status of public law contractors: I found this very timely. On the issue of contract training, the Commission has introduced a provision on management training – although it is a big word for some, it is a reality. Similarly, the text does provide for awareness-raising among contractors on public matters. Secondly, it provides for facilitating mobility between the private and public sectors, both for civil servants and for contractors from the private sector. Since this provision is indeed foreseen by the Government in this text, we will greatly strengthen and strengthen the system of ethics in order to prevent any risk of conflicts of interest. This will involve both the return of staff to the private sector and the ethics of potential contractors in the public service, including high-level positions. Opening up to contractors is not a goal in itself, as the text does not set quantified objectives. This is a means made available to public employers for certain occupations, certain skills they may need. This may also depend on the duration of this requirement, which does not necessarily require a long-term incumbent position. Mr.Marleix, you mentioned the competition that could be established between public servants and contractors: your fear illustrates the lack of confidence you have in the skills or qualities of public servants! On the contrary, I believe that they will be quite able to defend their baggage and their career paths. As such, they will be quite legitimate and at their fair value in the face, since you place it in this way, to contractors. Last point, yes, Mrs Obono, mobility is very little implemented today: it is reality, even if the status allows it. I refer you to Title IV of this text, which we will discuss in the coming hours or days, which provides precisely for arrangements to engage and ease mobility arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u81	There's no need for contract, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u82	I therefore hope that you will join us on these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u83	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u84	In order for everyone to take the measure of what we are talking about, I would like to reiterate, without rewording it, the question put by Mr Marleix on the locks and the limits. If one wonders what jobs will be open to contract workers in the future, reference should be made to the impact assessment on article 7: in the State civil service, jobs open to contract workers will increase from 683 today to 3800, an increase of 456%. In the territorial civil service, 1522 jobs are now open; There will be 2700 in the future, or more than 77%. And for the hospital public service, the increase will be only 28%, with the number of jobs rising from 284 today to 365 in the future. To take a very concrete example, today the position of consul in Los Angeles cannot be filled by a contractor. You cannot be a writer, playwright, literary critic – any resemblance to existing facts would be totally accidental – and be appointed consul in Los Angeles. Tomorrow, it will be possible. In this case, perhaps it was considered that a better skill had been found than those available at the Quai d'Orsay, where learning before becoming a consul is necessarily long? In the public service of the State, this opening will concern interdepartmental functional jobs, the jobs of ministerial directorates under public status, the positions of ministerial management occupied by officials in active positions: this represents a lot of people! Reading the impact statement on this article is valuable, including in what it does not say. Thus, it is written that this measure will make it possible to build ascental career paths for public law contractors. On the other hand, there is no provision in this article for the career of civil servants. In its opinion, which is just as interesting to read, the Council of State "in particular regrets that this study does not provide any figures as to the number of staff awaiting assignment", which is still important, "and does not contain any elements relating to the possible impact of a significant increase in the number of contract staff holding, under open-ended contracts, all types of jobs in the public service on the career development of the incumbents and on the coexistence of these two categories of staff who will now compete for access to management jobs" – this is obvious. As you can see, this unsaid is considerable. It is likely that this article will have a negative impact on the career prospects of many public servants. If the bill does not remove the principle of the career public service, it weakens it greatly by making the choice of a mission public service, with what it includes: moving from a citizen public servant to a committed public official.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u85	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u86	I share all the arguments put forward by the rapporteur; So I won't repeat them. I will just highlight three points. The first point is that Article 7 is intended to allow the recruitment of contract workers into managerial positions. This will, therefore, lead to increased opportunities for contract workers to use jobs that are not currently open to them. As the impact study indicates, we will move from 0.2% of jobs to 1.2% – that is, to remind us of the order of magnitude at stake. Secondly, the mechanism we are proposing is designed to enable men and women from the private sector to devote a few years to the service of public action. It will also allow men and women who have been working in the public sector for a long time and who benefit from a CDI to have access to managerial positions in the organizations in which they operate, even though they are now deprived of such positions because they are reserved for incumbents. We can admit that in terms of career prospects for men and women in CDI, this can be extremely useful. The last point echoes three interventions. The first is Mr.Perea's: I agree with him when he says that it is not necessary to say that recruiting contractors is a way of bringing skills into the public service. There are skills in the public service and you were right to recall that the incumbents, the successful candidates, have these skills. We must stick to diversification and, rather than talking about an obligation to recruit contractors, we must talk about an opportunity to recruit contractors. Moreover, we do not set any floor or ceiling, for we consider that it is a new freedom that is given, and not a new obligation that would be imposed. The second intervention was by Mr Poulliat, who spoke on behalf of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization. We share her concern: we will address it in the context of the reform of training for the senior public service and for management jobs, provided for in Article 22, in conjunction with an amendment by the rapporteur to make mandatory the follow-up of management and management training for any staff member, whether incumbent or contractual, who would have access to a management position. So we will have to integrate it. I hear your proposal on prevention and anti-radicalization training: these elements of training are common to all positions, but perhaps we could study how to generalize them in order to make training more effective. Finally, in order to answer Mr Marleix more precisely, I did make an error of reference by quoting Article 7 earlier. This is paragraph 13 of article 9, which refers to the existence or otherwise of training in public service schools. This is reflected in the text by the existence of training leading to tenure: it is in fact the prerogative of the public service schools of the State to propose a tenure upon leaving school to trainees who are undergoing their training.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u87	On Amendments Nos 138, 592 and 674 to delete Article 7, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u88	The purpose of this amendment is to delete this article, which, in the continuity of the previous ones, considerably expands the use of contract workers on all three sides of the public service, particularly for managerial positions. To cite only the example of the territorial civil service, you lower the threshold for municipalities or public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation to recruit contractors for the posts of Directors-General, Deputy Directors-General, Directors-General of Technical Services – in short, a whole series of managerial and management posts. You had already tried to have this system adopted in the law on the freedom to choose his professional future and the Constitutional Council had censored you, considering this article to be a legislative horseman. Beyond the cult that you nurture for going back and forth between the public and the private and for the introduction of private management techniques in the public sector, the alpha and the omega of the right direction of business, I would like to draw your attention to two great risks. The first one hasn't been so much discussed here. In reply to Mrs Vichnievsky, when we talk about contract workers and statutory workers, it is not a matter of judging people: there are of course excellent contract workers and excellent staff under status, and the opposite is probably true, with bad ones in both cases. The question is not this: it is that of our model and the protection that status offers. It refers to the law and the general interest, whereas the contract, by definition, does not refer to it, which makes all the difference. I heard a few moments ago about the problems of secularism: I can assure you that we are not at all protected in the same way on this question depending on whether we are under statute or contract. That is why proposals were made to that effect earlier; and I could extend that to questions of probity. In case of political alternation, and there are,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u89	And there will be!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u90	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...and there will be, the fact that staff are in status is a protection that guarantees the continuity of public service. Ask the Italians or Brazilians today: the first decision, in the month that followed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u91	In Venezuela!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u92	Or Venezuela, whatever! In every country...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u93	There you go! To the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u94	We are listening to Mr Little, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u95	How to treat things with the little bit of the lorgnette! Wherever there's no status, okay?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u96	He's right, listen to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u97	Ask staff what's going on: In the wake of the election of Jair Bolsonaro in Brazil, 100,000 officials jumped! Ask how many thousands of civil servants under contract jump in Italy, because there is no statute or guarantee of the continuity of public service! In short, to tackle the status is to allow the Bolsonaro or the Salvini who risk tomorrow to be responsible – which I do not wish – to have an administration in their hands. These issues should not be viewed from the perspective of immediacy, of today's political reality, but rather of the impact this law could have on the continuity of public service. In addition to this, there are prospects in this article for slippers and backpants, for public-private returns, including for leadership roles in government or communities, allowing individuals from the private sector to build networks of influence before returning to the private sector to sell not a skill, but an address book. I see it as a huge danger to the future of our public service, to its probity and to the continuity of public service, which only the statute guarantees. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] If you want to organize the control of the private sector over our public service, you are endangering democratic continuity in future alternations, a prospect that cannot be ruled out in the years to come. In addition, you are opening the door to massive phenomena of retro-pantouflage and corruption in our public service, so far relatively spared compared to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u98	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 592.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u99	Without prolonging what has been excellently said by Stéphane Peu, I would like to bounce back on a number of invectives that have been heard on the status issue. We are told that we are in the twenty-first century: certainly, but fascism should not arise in the twenty-first century either! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] If we want to limit the use of contract workers, and not completely exclude them, we are concerned about how we serve the general interest and how our public officials are protected. It's not a sight of the mind to worry about it! Try to show a minimum of historical depth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u100	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 674.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u101	We are indeed in the 21st century and we are among those who believe that the status of the public service is more relevant than ever and that it should be strengthened to meet the challenges of this century. We oppose this article, which broadens access to certain positions, now reserved for competitive examinations, to direct recruitment through contracting, as this new access does not result in the tenure of non-staff personnel. The extension of the contract is a direct attack on the status of the civil service, aimed at bringing public employment closer to private methods. This is a breach of the statute in the territorial civil service, in the management posts of the State and in the hospital civil service, even though contractors account for almost 18 per cent of public employment and the rule of common law for the use of civil servants is a guarantee of the proper functioning and specificity of public employment and of the general interest which it embodies. Indeed, and even if mobility is already possible and needs to be strengthened, the public service allows for continuity and permanence that the private sector cannot provide. This justifies the long-term commitment of the agents, which does not deserve the stigmatization it is subjected to, since that is precisely what the State needs. Contracting for leadership positions, positions of decision-making power, and in particular the total vagueness of the selection and employment arrangements, threatens the principle of equal access to the public service, which cannot be protected by the mere addition of its mention between the draft bill and the current bill. This mechanically increases the risks of nepotism and conflicts of interest. Even if the status is not enough to completely rule out them, it offers far stronger guarantees than contracting in this area. These methods promote the precariousness of the agents, contrary to the protection afforded by the status of civil servant, as shown – do you mind, Mr. Secretary of State – the real situation of staff under contract in the civil service, especially women. According to the figures of the Government itself, the extension of the use of the contract would involve 3,800 jobs in the State, from 1522 to 2700 in the territorial civil service and 365 in the hospital civil service. Is it considered that the current pool of civil servants – several million agents – is not enough to fill these few thousand jobs? If their training fails, an improvement in the training system would enable this problem to be dealt with quickly. All of this justifies our radical opposition to this article, which we call for the deletion of. Recall that this bill is not intended to meet real needs, but is part of the continuation of a strategy, initiated by Sarkozy and pursued by Holland, to reduce the scope of the civil service. In this, you are much more in conservatism – or even reaction – than in progressism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u103	I am not going to repeat the arguments and the position I have put forward in my preliminary statement, but I would like to make some points in response to the considerations of Mr Peu and Mr Vallaud. The 20th century has not protected us from totalitarianism, and the 21st century does not prevent the rise of populism in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u104	Tell us about France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u105	Let me go on, please. I listened to you religiously...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u106	Religiously?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u107	It's an expression, you know that! If he were to arrive in France, I do not think that the status will be enough to protect us from it. A majority with totalitarian objectives would indeed have the means to defeat it in any case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u108	If he takes over a departmental executive, or communal?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u109	What will protect us in the future, in my view, will rather be a moderate policy for all the French, ahead of the election situations as you mentioned them, in Europe and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u110	Tell that to the people of Fréjus!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u111	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I do not dispute that this is a real substantive debate, but the main challenge is to protect ourselves upstream. Whatever the results to come in France or in other countries in Europe or in the world, it is not the status of civil servants that will protect people from populism and extremes, whether they are on the left or on the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u112	That's not what they said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u114	I will not repeat what I said in response to the comments on the article, which was a negative opinion on these deletion amendments. I would just like to point out to Mr. Little that we had this debate about communities with Marie-George Buffet in the Law Commission. By proposing a threshold of 40,000, in the vast majority of cases we aim for jobs that are described as functional jobs. Your questions about the future of these officers in the event of a political alternation are therefore not justified since, as I know, the functional detachment allows the employer, within four months, to dismiss the officer in question and withdraw the delegation of signature from him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u115	But he keeps his status!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u116	Yes, but he loses his job and at the end of the four months, if there is no possibility of transfer, he is made available to the management centre. I deliberately speak of "qualified" jobs as functional jobs, because this commonly used term is a shortcut – the amendment that Mrs Motin will defend earlier will give me the opportunity to return to it. The Government is opposed to these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u117	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u118	I have no doubt that Mr Little, who is always very attentive, has heard all of my comments. I mentioned the quality of the people, but there are as many mediocre – or excellent – agents under status as poor – or excellent – contractual agents. Some missions require the protection of status, in particular to ensure the independence of a number of functions. I do not see today that our public service schools have been abolished. So this is another debate. With regard to public-private returns and retro-pants, I am one of those who think that one day it will be necessary to consider the possibility for civil servants who leave the private sector to return to the public; But this is not our debate today. Today's debate is about the framework for these trips and returns. This will be discussed extensively when we address the ethics component. I will vote against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u119	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u120	We will vote in favour of these deletion amendments. What bothers us most, Secretary of State, is the lack of a sufficiently clear vision of what you want to do or some kind of employment doctrine. Opening public service management positions is not quantitatively revolutionary, and it will not reduce public spending at all – on the contrary, since you will have to pay these people up to what they earn in the private sector. On the other hand, the change of philosophy is indisputable. In fact, it is enough to read the impact statement to measure it. You announce that you will use private firms to evaluate CVs. Thus, American recruitment firms – I know that the President likes Americans, and that is why I take this example – will be able to assess the ability of a particular lawyer, banker, as I know, to perform a public service mission. It's opening a field that asks at least some questions...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u121	And certainly problems!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u122	...to whom we would have liked answers. For now, you're not bringing any. You have not cited any convincing examples of any particular competence that would be lacking at the head of state. Boris Vallaud cited the case of an appointment to the post of Consul General of France in the United States. Do you really think that the Quai d'Orsay does not have a staff member who is competent enough to hold this position and that you should go and look elsewhere? You don't answer that question. Secondly, I invited you earlier, since you are in charge of the public service, to tell us what perspectives you will offer to young people who have competed if these executive positions are no longer reserved for them. I am a little disappointed – excuse me for insisting heavily on this point, at the risk of being a bit unpleasant – not to hear from you a declaration of love to those agents who need to be reassured. What will still justify that young people bother to pass contests? It is not to bother you that I ask this question, but because it is important and it has been asked to me by many young people who are preparing these competitions. Many wonder whether it will still be worth the effort to enter the civil service once this text has been adopted: will there still be missions for which the State will need them? Won't they be in a fully competitive market tomorrow? I am not saying that none of the provisions you are asking us to vote is interesting, but we would really like to know your doctrine of employment, otherwise we will not be able to trust you completely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u123	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u124	If there is to be a declaration of love for those who wish to become incumbent officials, Mr Marleix, I am happy to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u125	Little flame...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u126	In fact, we are committed to maintaining the principle of permanent employment by incumbents, which was called into question by an amendment that you tabled earlier. The principles of lifelong employment and job security exist, as well as those of maintaining and retaining the rank even though the job would be called into question, whatever the reason; and as I have had the opportunity to say in other exchanges that we have had, some of them can by definition only be reserved for incumbent agents so – even if it is not limited – that there is exercise of the prerogative of public authority. In addition, do not pretend to be astonished when it comes to recruitment firms! I refer you to the impact assessment: this practice already exists, since departments sometimes rely – I did not say systematically – on them. You yourself have led important local authorities. I don't know if you used it, and whatever it is, that's not the point, but I have no doubt that you have at the top references, addresses, cabinet names that regularly offer their advice to local authorities to accompany them in selection and recruitment procedures. It is sufficient to consult the job offers in the specialised press to find that they are often entrusted with the examination of applications or the collection of applications. This exists in the hospital civil service, it exists in the territorial civil service, it exists in the state civil service. The impact assessment is limited to reporting on existing opportunities, which we can all assume since they are common to all public employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u127	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u128	Following a comment by the rapporteur, I would like to return quickly to the issue of protection. The status and institutional arrangements are certainly not enough – no one has the naivety to believe that the texts we vote would preserve it if democracy was called into question or authoritarian drift – but they contribute to it. The repeated detrication and weakening of this status, of these mechanisms, would, on the other hand, favour and facilitate the action of authoritarian powers, since they would have the means to put the administration at a standstill. Nevertheless, even for authoritarian powers, the continuity of the State requires a minimum of public administration and civil servants; The more protected they are, the more they act as a counter-power against this type of risk. You said a moderate policy was necessary. But who was head of Italy before the current power? Matteo Renzi – Mr Macron was also mentioned as the French Renzi: moderate power, center right and center left. However, it has detrigued social protections, weakened the state even more, and the social policies it has implemented have helped the far right to come to power. So it's not that policy, the one you're leading, that protects! On the contrary, we must strengthen the statutes and propose an alternative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u129	The floor was drawn by Mr. Éric Poulliat, on behalf of the delegation to local and regional authorities and decentralization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u130	First of all, I thank our colleagues Peu et Vallaud for stimulating us by referring to history. I fully agree with them on two points: we must fight the nauseous, extremist and fascist ideologies; You have to have the passion for history. Listening to you, Mr Vallaud, I asked myself – I am not a specialist in the status of German officials! – what the officials of the Weimar Republic thought when Hitler arrived at the Chancellery. Could they only think that their status would be a protection? Did they have one, by the way?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u131	No, they didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u132	Similarly, what did the French officials think about the arrival of Marshal Pétain at the head of the state? The status is not always liberating: sometimes it imprisons in harmful public policies, which raises other questions. I thank you in advance for your reply, and I am glad that we have this debate! Then, as Mrs Obono and Mr Marleix have done, there is often opposition to the careers of incumbents and contractors. What will our young graduates do when they prepare the competitions, etc. - Is that what you're saying? They have chosen to serve the public interest and the community throughout their careers. Others can make the same choice, but not for their entire professional life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u133	In that case, they can resign!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u134	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] They don't want to be civil servants all their lives. They aspire, at some point, to put themselves at the service of the general interest, of the community, to acquire a public culture, but for some time, before doing anything else, and they will make very good contracts. The two statutes are therefore not opposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u135	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u136	Nor am I a specialist in the German administration of the 1920s and 1930s. In any event, the status of the civil service did not exist in 1939 – but there was one under Vichy. The very idea of a statute was not obvious: the relationship of political power with its administration was sometimes a relationship of distrust, sometimes a relationship of trust. The status is the result of a slow, patient construction by the Republicans. It is no coincidence that, on different benches, we support elements of the public service and its guarantees. In 1946, with the Statute, it was a matter of instiling the spirit of resistance to an administration and a state to be rebuilt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u138	We're still here. It is never pointless to wonder if we are not shaking something of a founder, which is not an anachronism. Unfortunately, history sometimes tightens dishes. Bioethics evokes the "fatal slopes"... The status is certainly not abolished, but we are still witnessing an unlimited introduction to the contract. I do not even take the position from the point of view of the agents, but from the point of view of the general interest, of the public service. I believe that the border between public and private interests is being reduced. I mean, being a civil servant is not a straitjacket. We have a President of the Republic who has decided to remain a civil servant for only a few years. It was not a problem for him and many others to be a civil servant and then go to work elsewhere. A civil servant is always free to resign.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] A contractor, for his part, is always free to enter a competition. It is called republican equality, it is called a certain idea of merit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u141	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u142	I do not want to prolong the debates with too many historical references, but they are still far from negligible! I imagine that everyone here has thought about the reasons why our country has acquired the first status of the civil service: General De Gaulle's Government of National Union then applied the programme of the National Council of Resistance. I imagine that everyone has made a relationship between the first status of the public service and what our country had just experienced, in particular the submission of administrations, not to a statute that would have referred them to the law and the general interest, but to contracts that referred the agents to a direct hierarchy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u144	The very basis of the 1946 civil service statute, developed in the national union born of the forces of the Resistance, finds its source in what our country had experienced before. I'm not saying we have to lock up and keep this status like a museum guard would, but still! Let's put ourselves in a historical perspective! I did not say that the status preserved an authoritarian power, but that in Brazil, Italy or, tomorrow, in France, where the municipal elections will take place within a year...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u145	In Poland!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u146	I am not going to list all the countries: apart from France, there are almost none who have this status. France has a history, a greatness that makes it speak to the world, especially on these issues, since the Great French Revolution and the programme of the National Council of Resistance. It speaks to the world and this status, which you weaken, is often looked upon and envied as a force. It is also paradoxical: France's great forces are often envied abroad and denigrated, dismantled here – we could also make a parallel with social security and many other things. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] I don't want to caricature your words, I'm trying not to do it, but I'm asking that it be the same with mine. In a year's time, the municipal elections will be held. I can tell you that the issue of status protection is not a minor one in a number of local communities. I invite you to think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u147	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 138, 592 and 674.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u148	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 17 Against 48
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u149	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 462.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u150	This withdrawal amendment of the Socialist and related group aims to reduce the scope of the opening to contracts of management jobs of the State civil service. Thus, not all management jobs will be affected, but only "some". It is not a question of dogmatically opposing the use of contract agents in the public service. In some cases, the opening of the contract is useful, for example, for jobs requiring very specific skills. However, as provided for in Article 3 of the Law of 13 July 1983 on the Rights and Obligations of Officials, recourse to the contract must be a "derogation". Opening up all management jobs to contract staff is outside the scope of the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u152	Article 7, paragraph 2, provides that a decree will specify the list of jobs concerned with the opening of managerial posts in the public service of the State, since some of them relate in particular to regal activities, they will not be open to contractual recruitment. It does not seem necessary to amend the wording of this paragraph. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u153	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u154	It is a pity that Mr Vallaud, who criticized us for not saying everything, is no longer here. In any case, he too was careful not to say anything. My amendment is intended to allow all functional jobs to be opened up to contract workers, because despite the possibility offered, the reality is far from what we have been described earlier. To illustrate my point, I will give some figures. Of the 284 jobs open in the hospital public service, only five are now filled; Of the 1522 jobs open in the territorial civil service, only 239 are occupied by contract workers; Finally, out of 683 managerial positions in central government, only 37 are occupied by contractors. As you can see, there is a difference between open and filled employment. But these are managerial jobs that everyone needs. It is therefore important to find ways to ensure that they are provided by competent people. Whether or not they fall within the statute does not alter that jurisdiction. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The public interest is not only the business of civil servants and the State, it is also the business of all citizens. This was enshrined in the Act on Business Growth and Transformation, known as the PACTE Act, when it was decided to allow companies to write about their social raison d'être. The public interest is not just the business of people who have a status: it is the business of all citizens, whether they are contractors in the public service or they work in business. I do not see how being contractual prevents people from serving the general interest, wherever they are in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u156	If I understand the purpose of your amendment, I think it poses an editorial problem as it uses the term "functional employment". In the territorial civil service, functional jobs are exhaustively listed in sections 47 and 53 of the 1984 Act, which is not the case in the other two slopes. The system is of difficult legal application. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u158	Same opinion. As I mentioned earlier, the concept of functional employment as such is not used in law as systematically as it is believed. It is more often an ease of language to designate jobs that are held by functional detachment. This adds a small legal difficulty. On the other hand, your amendment makes it clear that the extension of the conditions for recourse to the contract does not mean obligation or automaticity. This also refers to employer decisions and the comparative qualifications of incumbents and contractors. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn, more for editorial reasons than for substantive reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u159	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 590.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u160	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u161	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 824.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u162	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u163	I call Mr Robin Reda to support Amendment No. 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u164	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u165	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 848.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u166	Considering the separation of the employment framework of territorial engineers into two jobs, engineer and chief engineer, by decree of 26 February 2016, the lowering of the threshold from 80000 to 40000 inhabitants allowing communities to derogate from statutory recruitment to fill functional jobs is in contradiction with the reform of the competition and the training of chief engineers established for the past two years, with the aim of recruiting and preparing statutory engineers for managerial functions and high-level expertise. The opening of functional posts in municipalities and EPCIs of between 40000 and 80000 inhabitants to contractors will significantly weaken the recruitment, professional development and mobility of chief engineers from the internal and external competition. On the other hand, communities using this non-proprietary recruitment scheme will not enjoy the objective guarantees offered by the competition on the level of education, training and expertise specific to the chief engineers and necessary for the performance of their missions. That is why this amendment is intended to delete paragraph 6 of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u168	I am against this amendment aimed at abolishing the extension of contractual recruitment to functional jobs on the territorial side to the municipalities and EPCI of more than 40,000 inhabitants, compared with 80000 today. I would point out that this opinion will be valid for all the amendments aimed at changing this threshold of 40,000 inhabitants. The threshold of 40,000 inhabitants corresponds to the threshold for the creation of functional jobs filled by staff whose grade falls within category A+, i.e. in concrete terms the rank of director, administrator and chief engineer, which refers to a certain expertise and competence, in any case to a level of qualification. It is therefore a threshold that meets certain objectives of balance with the opening of contractual recruitments for managerial posts in the public and hospital sectors. This will be an opportunity to diversify recruitment for these municipalities and EPCI, with a view to opening up recruitments for management positions on the three sides.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u170	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u171	I have before me nine amendments, Nos 35, 220, 1025, 10, 36, 37, 852, 1131 and 797, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 35, 220 and 1025 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 852 and 1131. I call Mr Robin Reda to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u172	The purpose of this amendment is to reduce to 10,000 the threshold above which municipalities may recruit directly the posts of Director-General of Services, Deputy Director-General of Services and Director-General of Technical Services, knowing that the bill provides for a threshold of 40,000 inhabitants. A director of territorial administration, town hall and EPCI carries out the permanence of public action. But as the Secretary of State said earlier, it is also someone who is placed on the level of functional employment and who, let us not forget the dynamics that are at work in the local authorities, is today very much linked to the personality of the elected candidate, to the duo he forms with the mayor or president – because he applies in an operational and political way, in the noble sense of the term, the decisions of the territorial executive. In fact, there is a contradiction in wanting more contractors over 40,000 inhabitants, although it is well known that it is possible to find officials who pass competitions, notably as territorial administrator, at the Institut national des études territoriales, INET, or in-house, and who are naturally attracted to posts in large EPCIs or large cities, while small and medium-sized cities – and I address the former president of the Association des petits villes de France – struggle to find executives in the technical or administrative field. There is a very profound transformation of the Director General's role in these cities, which are generally members of large groups, in which the DG's operational skills in the field are still important, but where the skills of lawyers, analysts, representational and engineering skills are also needed. However, it is increasingly difficult to find this engineering in the cities of 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 or 25,000 inhabitants. I would add that this substantial change, which is supported by a colleague from the La République group on the move – as was applauded earlier, I assume that he is supported in this process by all his colleagues in the majority – only slightly alters the impact assessment, which mentions 125 communes and 154 EPCI of more than 40,000 inhabitants who may be affected by the opening to contract posts on management posts. Since France has fewer than 1000 communes with more than 10000 inhabitants in France, it is clear that the subject is not fundamentally changed – The rapporteur even initially defended a threshold above 2000 inhabitants, as was stated in Mr Darmanin's bill last summer. A balance should be found and the reality of local and regional authorities should be taken into account. I know that many have pressured to set this threshold above 40,000 inhabitants, but as much as to tell you that above this threshold, this transformation will not take place: it will only be residual in the management posts of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u173	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u174	Without repeating the excellent argument of my colleague Robin Reda, I would like to go back to the relevance of this threshold of 40,000 inhabitants. In fact, the work of a Director General of Services in a community with more than 40,000 inhabitants is not exactly the same as that of a Director General of Services in a municipality with more than 10,000 inhabitants. It is more relevant to imagine that it is the general manager of the services of a community of more than 10,000 inhabitants – who has real functions in the implementation of a municipal project, in the operational nature of the political project, in the noble sense of the term – who can be recruited contractually rather than that of a community of more than 40,000 inhabitants, who already have a mass of officials to manage, who have space to have collaborators of projects in number a little more than in a community of 10,000 inhabitants. It seems interesting to me that this flexibility mainly concerns municipalities of intermediate size, between 10000 and 40000 inhabitants, rather than more than 40000 inhabitants. I will even tend to consider that in communities with more than 40,000 people, the status of public servant is not really worth questioning, because there is already enough flexibility in cabinet jobs, of mission managers – flexibility that small communities, between 10,000 and 40,000 people, generally cannot mobilize.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u175	Mr Alain Perea has the floor to support Amendment No. 1025.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u176	This is an amendment to which I am very attached. Of course, I know I won't convince my left-wing colleagues, but it's no big deal. I have succeeded, and I am pleased, in convincing my colleagues from the right in committee, since they have just taken over this amendment, and I hope that I can change the point of view of my colleagues from the majority on this issue. We are firmly convinced that this diversity, as the Secretary of State has said, will enable local and regional authorities to have more effective management teams to better respond to current challenges. [[Ms. Sandra Marsaud and Ms. Florence Granjus applaud]] Why stop at 40,000 inhabitants? The answer will surely be given earlier. In France, there are 200 municipalities with more than 40,000 inhabitants. The rural areas with about 30,000 inhabitants – I'm thinking of Rodez, Nevers, etc. – tell us we need these teams. In terms of spatial planning and territorial balance, it is essential to complete this reform, to have the courage of our opinions. If we really think that teams of diverse profiles are important to local and regional authorities, have the courage to go to the end and go down to 10,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u177	Amendment No 10 by Mr Julien Dive and Amendments Nos 36 and 37 by Mr Robin Reda are being defended. The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, in support of Amendment No. 852.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u178	This amendment is in line with Amendment No 848 which I tabled a moment ago. You're in the wrong direction. While you reformed the competition and training of chief engineers two years ago, it would have been desirable to take the time to measure the benefits in the coming years. For running institutions, I don't think it's in our best interest to break this system. That is why we propose to replace the threshold of 40000 inhabitants with that of 60000.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u179	On the identical amendments Nos 35, 220 and 1025, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Pau-Langevin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1131.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u180	In general, our group is opposed to expanding the scope of the public service leadership contract. This fallback amendment therefore tends to reduce the opening perimeter by replacing the threshold of 60000 with 40000. The measure you are proposing may limit the employment prospects of employees who may be appointed to executive positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u181	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 797.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u182	This amendment tends to raise the threshold to 80000 inhabitants. Opening up to the contract will promote pay disparities and create a risk of discontinuity in the public service, but it could also reduce the number of promotion posts for incumbents. This is particularly true in the territorial sector, where the blows to the status could be reinforced by the possibility of changing management positions according to the alternations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u184	Let us recall the genesis of this device. Mr. Reda suggested that I had defended a bill that would have provided a threshold of 2,000 people. That's not true: last summer, I was proposing to amend the text of the bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future in order to raise the threshold to 40,000 inhabitants, which had been voted on. This threshold has been retained because it enables staff in category A+ to be targeted at a level of competence and qualification higher than those which can be recruited below the threshold of 40,000 inhabitants. Let's not mistarget ourselves. This provision concerns major directions. Below the threshold of 40,000 inhabitants, it is not necessary to meet the requirements of competence of an A+ official in order to carry out his or her duties properly, even if the level of responsibility is the same. We should not be able to target Category A or even B agents – since some town hall secretaries are category B. Opinions against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u186	The threshold from which we propose to open management positions to contract recruitment in the territorial public service was discussed for the first time during the review of the bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future. This law was promulgated on 5 September 2018. The initial Government text proposed a lower threshold, but after discussion, particularly with Émilie Chalas, it had been amended, with the approval of the Government, to raise the threshold to 40,000 inhabitants. The discussion took place with elected associations and professional associations, including administrators or community directors. The latter are a representative trade union in a number of Joint Administrative Commissions following the last elections. The 40,000-population threshold was used to target administrative jobs in communities that typically have several functional jobs. Below this threshold, the number of functional jobs is much smaller. Mr Reda, you have cited a very good association, that of the small cities of France, more than medium-sized cities, grouped in the association Villes de France, presided over by Caroline Cayeux, mayor of Beauvais – I would not like to be invaded on his pre-square. The association of the small towns of France, which brings together the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, marked its preference for the threshold of 40,000 inhabitants in September 2018, as it considered it appropriate to open to contractors posts usually reserved for territorial administrators. It is in this spirit that we have retained this threshold, which will also allow for greater readability. It should be noted, in particular for Mr Reda and Mr Perea, that only management jobs which are described as functional jobs are concerned, even if this term is not of legal value. It is true that communities of less than 40,000 inhabitants or their establishments may have difficulty recruiting certain highly specialized and particularly competent profiles, but the conditions under which we open the contract, as provided for in Article 10, will enable these expectations to be met, particularly as regards the territorial civil service – with the exception of the so-called functional position of directors general for municipalities and intercommunalities of less than 40,000 inhabitants. Two kinds of amendments have just been tabled. Some tend to raise the threshold to 60000 or 80000 inhabitants and will receive an obviously unfavourable opinion. As for those aimed at lowering the threshold, for different reasons, the opinion will also be unfavourable, because we are committed to the balance we have achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u187	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u188	The IUD, Action and Independent Group will support the amendments that tend to lower the threshold. What is the aim of this opening-up measure for contract recruitment of directors-general of local and regional authorities? Perhaps you would like to attract skills, not because they would not be in the public service, but to "breathe" a community. In this case, it would be unfair to exclude from the benefit of the measure communities of less than 40,000 inhabitants, who have the same needs as opening up new skills – even if, I recognise, the general manager of a department of one million inhabitants will not have the same approach to the profession as a town secretary of a commune of 2500 inhabitants. [[Ms. Sandra Marsaud applauds]] That being said, you have been telling us from the beginning that the increased use of contract workers is not intended to "sniff" the status of the public service. The difficulties in recruiting directors-general mainly concern communities below the threshold of 40,000 inhabitants, in particular those with a population of between 10,000 and 30,000, in remote areas where these occupations suffer from a lower attractiveness. Unfortunately, you reserve this opportunity to recruit differently to communities that have no problems recruiting incumbents. You compete with the incumbents of the territorial public service, including territorial administrators, with probably interesting profiles, but from the private sector. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Ms. Sandra Marsaud also applauds]] In fact, it would have been necessary to limit this possibility to communities of less than 40,000 people – I am thinking of it now, but it is too late to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u189	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u190	I agree with Mr. Brindeau. You facilitate the use of contract workers in communities that already have the maximum number of functional jobs, which are the easiest to fill – a firm employee or general manager of services in a large community. Category A+ official's explanation is a vague smokescreen for those who know how to use local authority law correctly. On the other hand, communities that do not inspire vocations and struggle to recruit leaders will not be able to look elsewhere. The number of employees in functional jobs in a community of 10,000 is limited, let's not forget! Above all, I do not understand your reasoning with respect to category A or A+ employees. The number of territorial administrators is sufficient to meet the needs. On the other hand, we should look at the number of employees in category A. If the quantity is available, the number of jobs offered in categories A is considerable and corresponds to a wide range of functions, ranging from the head of service – himself of varying size – to the head of mission. The contest is the same. However, many of the territorial officials who compete for the Category A competition are not intended to become the general manager of the services of a community of 10,000 inhabitants and to have 100 to 150 employees under their responsibility. It is not obvious to find the person who will want to hold this kind of position. However, these communities between 10,000 and 40,000 people face the greatest difficulties in recruiting managers who agree to be general managers of services to participate in a political project. If citizens are to be reconciled with democracy, the commitments made during the elections must be fulfilled by an administration. This is not easy to achieve when you lack the necessary functional jobs! The positions of Directors General of Services must be opened to contractual recruitment for communities between 10,000 and 40,000 inhabitants. Beyond this threshold, it is no longer really necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u191	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u192	Before I was a Member of Parliament, I was a chief engineer, which corresponds to this famous category A+ and I was general manager of the services of a municipality with more than 50,000 inhabitants. I know local and regional authorities well and I agree with my colleagues. Of course, we could discuss these thresholds indefinitely, but we are not here to reproduce thresholds that have been harmful. Today, how many mayors complain that they fail to carry out their projects, how many colleagues regret not being able to get involved as they wish? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group as well as on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] This reform must transform the public service and not duplicate the mistakes of the past. Our majority must have the courage to go all the way to providing the actors in the territories with the answers they expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u193	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u194	I did not understand why communities with more than 40,000 inhabitants could claim to recruit contract workers at the same level of competence, probity and loyalty as a Category A+ official, while communities below this threshold would not be able to find honest and competent public officials. I would like to be explained this line of water sharing between the municipalities and the EPCIs with own taxation of more than 40,000 inhabitants, where the staff of category A+ would be able to do the part of things between politics and administration, and the communities below this threshold, where they would necessarily be an illustration of the mayor's nepotism or a job-caprice. This reduces the function of Director General of Services in a community of less than 40,000 inhabitants to something quite unfriendly. I'm waiting for a little more solid argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u195	The right always requires more contracts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u196	I note that categories A, often from the director's employment framework, often work at the policy level in large communities, i.e., from 25,000 people, because they are in contact with huge EPCIs, with very technical territorial issues. It has therefore been understood that the category that you refer to in this article is the result of consultation. But both the unions representing the agents, particularly those in categories B and C, do not seem to have attracted your attention, as well as the unions representing categories A, particularly those in service management, seem to have been successful. But beyond negotiating with the Union of Directors General of Community Services, your argument is not on the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u197	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u198	Mr Brindeau has pointed out that there is a desire to use contracts more and more, but it is only a question of expanding their scope to meet needs. There is not necessarily an attempt to favour a majority use of contracts. Secondly, with regard to the threshold of 40,000 inhabitants, we started this debate long before our committee work, since it has existed in substance since the beginning of this legislature, and last year we reached a position of balance. It took place again in committee and now in the Chamber – some want to lower this threshold, others want to raise it. I would point out that it is still the result of discussions between us, but also with all the actors involved, public employers and trade union representatives. And it seems to me that this threshold is a good balance, that it is important to vote as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u199	It's a slight argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u200	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u201	I would not like Mr Reda to manage, very skilfully, to divert the subject somewhat. What are we talking about with this device? The aim is to open up management positions to contractors, around 3000 posts in the State administration. It's both a lot and very little. This would not mean that, in the territorial administration, all DG positions are open to contract workers – this is the whole issue of the threshold, since they are functional jobs. The threshold of 40,000 adopted here last summer corresponds to a point of balance, confirmed by the hearings conducted by the Secretary of State during his consultation, by the working group on the civil service and by the work of your rapporteur. We must maintain this equilibrium threshold. I would point out that under 40,000 inhabitants, the possibility of opening category A and B posts to contract workers is provided for in any case in the territorial civil service, which will respond to the challenges of public employers in terms of recruitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u202	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u203	I thank the rapporteur for clarifying something that fully supports our proposal to set the threshold at 10000. For when the threshold it proposes concerns about 3000 posts within the State, the one we want would concern about 1000 posts in the territorial administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u204	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u205	This article authorizes the opening of 3,000 posts for contractual recruitment in the public service of the State, but it is prohibited to do so for 1,000 posts in the territorial civil service. That's an issue for me. And then a question underlies this debate: what is the need to use the status of the public service for the positions of directors general of communities? In other words, what are the missions for which it is absolutely necessary to employ an official in the local authorities? I don't think all missions need it, but it's about knowing what the job is as Director General of Services. And it is not the same in a commune of 2000 inhabitants, in a commune of 15,000 inhabitants, in a commune of 40,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u206	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u207	At 2000 inhabitants, the Director General of Services himself ensures the permanence of public action, it is the point of reference, because when there are fifteen agents, it is up to him to ensure stability over time, beyond the elections. At 40,000 inhabitants or more, the Director General of Services is at the head of a large administration, with at least 300 employees, and he is responsible for what I would call a regal service mission through his supervisory role. In a municipality of 10000 inhabitants, it is more questionable, because the Director General of Services already has employees who carry out intermediate functions, some of which are part of the Regalian – I am thinking of the permanence of territorial public action through the urban planning documents for engineers, but also through the civil registry – while others are more punctual or more managerial, in a logic of project. And I assure you that in these communes, the project is not driven by a staff of employees on functional jobs or on cabinet jobs, but by the Directorate-General for Services, because there is usually not enough room for manoeuvre to be able to multiply this type of position.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u208	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u209	Before your assembly passes to the vote, a word to repeat the Government's attachment to the threshold of 40,000 inhabitants for the opening of the management jobs contract, and thus the opinion unfavourable to the three identical amendments submitted to a public vote. I assume that this threshold is the result of consultation with professional associations as well as with the College of Employers, which has found it appropriate to layer this threshold over that of the recruitment of territorial administrators. In response to Mr. Schellenberger, I will also put forward another argument for the maintenance of management positions, in particular of DGS, in municipalities with fewer than 40,000 inhabitants in a permanent setting: it is the permanence to be provided in communities in which the direction of services is essentially based on one person because of the size of those services. We have been moving in this direction, as this road was taken a long time ago, as it was discussed in the context of the review of the bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future. We have reached this threshold which guarantees both the balance and the readability of the device. I have heard the discussions on the reconciliation between this threshold and that of the territorial administrators: it has at least the merit of legibility for all those who manage the communities on a day-to-day basis and who are required to recruit. I therefore reiterate our commitment to the 40,000 threshold, in accordance with the discussions we had and the commitments we made in September 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u210	[["Oh, no! » on many benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u211	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, that is enough: we are in the framework of the scheduled legislative time and the groups are managing their speaking time as they wish. I know that you want to gag our time at the end of the reform of the current Rules of Procedure, but as long as we are not gagged, we will speak when we deem it necessary. In scheduled legislative time, we are the judges of what we have to do! [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is good to make theory in this House, but it takes practice from time to time, hence our amendments. It is also a question of getting out of hypocrisy, because the reality is that the general code of territorial authorities now allows any mayor, even if his municipality has fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, to recruit a director-general of services who does not hold the territorial civil service – he will always succeed in one way or another. There is a need at some point to take into account the reality of practices in the territories. I will give you an example: the municipality of 1800 inhabitants of which I was mayor. A Director General of Services was recruited who is not an incumbent because there were no candidates in the territorial public service. We received a letter from the sub-prefect asking if we were sure that there was no other candidate and inviting us to pay attention at the renewal: he was told that everything was fine. So we continue with the contractor, and I can tell you that this is going very well. He has an eminent sense of public service. This is also a way out of this hypocrisy, which puts uncertainty on the daily lives of our territorial communities. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the great attention you have paid to me, and I will certainly have the same when you speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u212	But we agree with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u213	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 35, 220 and 1025.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u214	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 63 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 29 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u215	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u216	The meeting was resumed. I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 296.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u217	We place it in order to balance it. While the use of contractors could be considered to facilitate recruitment, particularly when it posed difficulties, it would be pernicious if such recruitment were to be used too widely, particularly in senior management positions. In some large communities, the Director General of Services and the four Assistant Directors General are all contract staff, while the rest of the staff is staffed by incumbents. This type of management causes some discomfort between those whose mission is only very temporary and those who are destined to work longer in the community. The amendment therefore proposes to regulate the use of contract workers in local and regional authorities by setting a maximum ceiling of 30 % of the staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u219	The introduction of quotas does not appear to be timely, as it could make human resources management more rigid in communities, particularly in small communities with a population of 10,000 to 40,000. On the contrary, the aim of this text is to ease the constraints on recruitment. The use of contractual recruitment is obviously not an obligation, since no quantified objective is to be achieved. This is only a means available to public employers and can be used if they deem it necessary, with flexibility and within the framework laid down by law. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u221	I had the opportunity to say that the Government did not wish to set a floor or ceiling for the recruitment of contractors for all categories of staff. That is why his opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u222	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u223	I would like to take advantage of this amendment to tell you that it is really the great limit that I see to the use that can now be made of contract jobs. This relaxation has given rise to great concern even in our territories, and I believe that this ceiling would help to reassure us. Secretary of State, I would nevertheless like you to be able to put yourself in the place of those who see the opening of these posts to contractors, even in our territories, so far away from the metropolis. The public service marked by recruitment through the competition, which is a factor of dignity and guarantees equal access to public employment. If tomorrow we can recruit completely differently on any type of position and without any limit of number, this will weaken this fundamental principle of recruitment into the public service. I do not judge your position, because it corresponds to your choice as well as that of your government. In any case, we are very sceptical about this new vision of public service. Use contract workers, yes. Make it soft, yes. However, this remedy must be defined in a manner that respects this fundamental principle, which sets competitive recruitment as a priority. We are attentive to the reports that are published. According to one of the latest studies by the Foundation for Public Administration and Policy Research, IFRAP, more than 90% of contract workers are employed in Sweden and 60% in Germany. Is this the model we want to move towards, not only for questions of flexibility in recruitment, but also for questions of economy? All these questions arise. Quite frankly, I have taken the time, together with my colleagues, to meet with the trade union representatives of all the bodies of the state. We have only seen unanimity, which is quite rare, against this boundless easing. Mr Marleix's proposal therefore seems to me good, since it allows this threshold to be fixed by decree. It's true that you don't want a floor or a ceiling. Common sense, however, would like us to reassure civil servants today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u224	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 968.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u225	This amendment is intended to go back to a provision which was introduced in committee on the proposal of the rapporteur. I would also point out that this proposal was the subject of an unfavorable opinion on the part of the Secretary of State, whose argument I will use to defend this amendment. Mr. Poulliat had also spoken on behalf of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization to recall the opposition of territorial employers to this provision, which provides for the determination by decree of the tasks of the directors general of local authorities. I take up and support the argument put forward by the Secretary of State in committee that the Director General of Services has no powers of his own other than those delegated by the territorial authority. In fact, this provision was introduced to satisfy a corporatist reflex of associations and unions of directors general of services whose objective I do not understand. At the very least, if my amendment were not to be adopted, I hope that the drafting of the forthcoming decree will not be the same as the one proposed in committee. In fact, the fact that the Director General "directs, coordinates all services, prepares and executes within the framework of the legality the deliberations, decisions and orders of the community or of the establishment" amounts either to a complete tautology or to the writing of a job card. I do not see what such a provision would do in our French legal order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u227	I am obviously against this amendment, since it is a question of going back to a contribution from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. You propose to delete the provision which provides that the functions of Director General of Services will be defined by decree in the Council of State. The aim is thus to clarify the role of the Directors-General of the departments of local and regional authorities and public institutions for inter-communal cooperation. One can only see the rise in power and competence of local authorities. In direct contact with local executives, the Directors-General of the Services carry out tasks essential to the implementation of the political orientations decided by the elected officials, in particular with regard to managerial and legal responsibility within the communities. It is therefore necessary to specify, at the regulatory level, the competences and functions they perform. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u229	As the rapporteur and Mr Brindeau have pointed out, this is a debate that we have had in committee. The Government – a position that I constantly defend in my personal capacity – is extremely committed to ensuring that the role of elected officials, including mayors, presidents of intercommunal, departmental and regional bodies, is fully recognized and that they are truly heads of territorial administration. They rely, in a relationship of trust that is usually characterized by a situation of secondment on functional employment, on Directors-General of Services. We are opposed to the idea of devoting a text that would confer specific powers other than those assigned by the elected representative, in terms of delegation of power, to the management of his services. This is a point of debate and discussion which we have with the rapporteur, who led me to give an opinion which was unfavourable to the adoption of this provision in committee, an unfavourable opinion which the Government maintains, which is logically reflected in an opinion in favour of Mr Brindeau's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u230	I call Mrs Aina Kuric to support Amendment No. 1095.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u231	The aim of this amendment is to introduce the concept of continuous improvement in the training of staff recruited to provide leadership functions in public services. Continuous improvement aims to ensure the satisfaction of users of public services by combining the improvement of the working conditions of agents and the overall and collective efficiency of the operation of the service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u233	I have tabled an amendment, which was adopted in committee, to make it clear that the training provided by contract staff recruited for management positions in the public service, particularly hospital staff, will have to enable them to acquire all the necessary knowledge on the organisation and functioning of public services. These contractual agents must be fully informed of the specific legal and operational issues surrounding public management, in order to ensure that their new functions are carried out in the best possible conditions. The improvement of the management of public services seems to me to be a natural objective which characterizes the training that will be carried out by contract agents: it is therefore not necessary to write it in the law. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, my opinion would be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u235	It's the same. I would add that under the order under Article 22 on the training of civil servants in general, and in particular members of the senior civil service, we will also have to improve these provisions, in line with the amendment adopted by the rapporteur. Finally, as I said earlier, opening management jobs to contract workers will also allow indeterminate contract employees to access management positions that they have not had access to so far. Another amendment by the rapporteur, adopted in committee, ensures that a staff member who has taken up managerial posts and who has not previously held such posts may be subject to specific training at the management level. There is something to satisfy your amendment, honourable Member; I therefore ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u236	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 880.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u237	This amendment allows me to address, through the Public Health Code, the hospital public service. I submit to the Government the following problem. We propose to appoint to positions of responsibility – including director or director – in the hospital public service persons who do not necessarily have the status of public servant. Paragraph 19 states that "a decree in the Council of State shall lay down the conditions for the application of this article, in particular the methods of selection to ensure equal access to public employment, as well as the conditions of employment and remuneration [...]. » It seems to me that it is a good thing to establish bridges between the public and private spheres and that it is beneficial to fluidize career paths. I am thinking in particular of the case of nurses. A young nurse, when leaving a nursing training institute and graduating from a state degree, must choose a career, either in the public or in the private sector. For example, she can practise for ten, fifteen or twenty years as a liberal nurse. After a number of years, to diversify her career path and thanks to the famous gateways I mentioned, she can apply and be recruited by a community or by a public institution. For example, she will perform her duties within the communal social action centre of a municipality, which may wish to recruit a nurse to perform a leadership role. With equal skills and experience, a nurse who has twenty years of Liberal experience must be able to retain the same pay when recruited to this executive position. In other words, the remuneration must be equivalent whether in the public or in the private sector. That is the point of this amendment, because this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u238	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u239	This amendment poses several editorial difficulties, since it would concern only the hospital civil service and seems to be indiscriminately aimed at civil servants and contractors, even though it applies to a decree which will aim to define the conditions of remuneration of only contract staff recruited from managerial posts. In addition to these difficulties, on the merits, it is precisely the very purpose of the decree to determine a flexible and balanced remuneration framework applicable to contract agents in order to take into account the diversity of their career paths – you are right on this point – in determining the level of their remuneration. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, my opinion would be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u240	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u241	It is identical, for reasons of form and drafting. I would add, Mr Benoit, that other amendments propose or will propose that the remuneration of contract workers be extremely strictly regulated, for example by providing that they absolutely cannot earn more than an incumbent in an equivalent position. We are also opposed to it. In fact, when recruiting, whether in the case of an incumbent or a contractor, taking into account seniority and experience is necessary and from one profile to the next, the records of service may be different. The decree which is provided for in this article 7 and which we will find in other articles which extend the conditions of recourse to the contract aims to lay down a number of repositories and to remind that in the general case, the remuneration must be the same as for the incumbent agents, but by integrating the experience and the journeys. If a contractor with a lot of experience were to replace a incumbent at the beginning of a career, it would be logical to take into account the experience of that contractor so that he would be better paid – and vice versa, if a incumbent were to be recruited from a position previously occupied by a contractor. Both for reasons of form and because the request it makes will be met by the future decree, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u242	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u243	As far as the form and the editorial aspects are concerned, I will not insist. Nevertheless, this is a very practical question, Mr Secretary of State. After the adoption of this text, could a nurse who is a liberal and has several years of professional experience and who is applying for a managerial position be entitled to the same remuneration as a person recruited as a civil servant? Take the following example: after twenty years in the private sector, a nurse is applying in an institution to perform such a function. The mayor, who runs a retirement home through the communal centre for social action, wants to hire this person because she is experienced. Today, he faces a problem of remuneration. The purpose of this bill is to fluidize career paths and build bridges between the public and the private, ultimately to move towards more justice and fairness – we will have the same debate when we consider the pension reform bill in a few weeks' time. Will this nurse be able, yes or no, to be recruited, with equal experience, with the same remuneration as an official?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u244	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u245	The answer is yes, Mr. Benoit. In other instances, as well as once here since we started reviewing this text, I have had the opportunity to point out that the opportunity we wanted to provide for the use of contractors should not result, for the same position, in an overpayment of the incumbents. However, it must also not result in under-payments. If it is out of the question of setting an imperative scale, because this would deny the specificity of individual paths, it remains that, since when there is experience in the public, it is taken into account in terms of seniority or rank, when there is experience in the private sector, it must be valued in the same way, so that, all things being equal elsewhere, there is a form of analogy between the experience acquired in the private sector and that acquired in the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u246	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u247	I would like to respond to the question put by Mr Benoit. We understood well that contractors would not be able to receive higher remuneration than public servants. All right. However, one question remains: what will be the added value, compared to a contractor, of the incumbent nurse who will apply for this job? In the long run, the idea of passing competitive examinations may be discouraged by the possibility that contractors will have to apply for equivalent positions. It seems to me that if one does not give primacy to the one who has passed a competition, in fact, one devalues the status of the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u248	Mr Benoit, are you withdrawing or are you maintaining the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u249	In the light of the reply of the Secretary of State, I withdraw the amendment. However, I do not agree with my Socialist colleague. If I follow the example of the hospital public service, it is a career choice at the outset: a young nurse can initially choose to practise as a Liberal, in a private institution or in the public service; But after having gained some experience, she can aspire to exercise other responsibilities and her experience should be valued. This is the purpose of this bill: to transform the public service. At this stage of the discussion, I find that the Government's proposal is in line with that. In this beautiful country, France, there are, whether we like it or not, two worlds that live side by side: the public sphere and the private sphere. These two worlds can be found even in the Chamber, in particular through confrontations between the public and the private sector. I think these two worlds should be better understood. To do this, it is necessary to fluidize the paths, to establish bridges, to promote career development. That is, it seems to me, the meaning of the Secretary of State's reply – which I thank for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u250	I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 297 on the additional Rule after Rule 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u251	This bill has an extremely pompous title – "public service transformation bill" – while in reality, as often with this government, the Attali Commission's drawer funds are simply being scraped. That is why we are proposing an amendment that really aims to transform the public service, through experimentation. We know that in our country the use of the contract is a problem, particularly because of the hiatus between CDD and CDI. The Government has seized the subject, since it tries to penalize the use of CSDs in the private sector, while it encourages it in the public sector – which, you will agree, is not really consistent. We therefore propose you to experiment in the hospital public service the single contract of hiring, that is to say a contract with progressive rights, as defined by our Nobel Prize in Economics, Jean Tirole. We have retained the hospital civil service, because it is probably the one that most needs to find innovative forms of public-private partnership. This is of course the case for large hospitals, but it is also the case for many small provincial hospitals, where such partnerships are being worked out. We even go so far as to create public interest groups for this purpose. In short, you learn to work differently. This is a real transformation project, which would at the same time allow the Government to experiment with this tool before its possible extension to the private sector. Let's do it in the sector that needs innovation the most: the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u253	We have already had this discussion in committee. The idea of a single contract of employment is interesting, in theory, but it would be necessary to define its contours and content with precision, which is not the case either in the current state of law or in your amendment. Therefore, in the absence of a clear legal definition, I express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u255	Unfavorable opinion, for reasons set out in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u256	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u257	The explanation is a little light. What we are proposing is to reflect, experiment and maintain a great deal of latitude in the construction of the new object. You argue that the amendment is not clear enough, even though the operative principle is precisely set out in it: it would be a contract whereby the employee and the employer would consolidate new rights as it unfolds. This seems protective to us for the employee – more than a CSD – and attractive to the employer, especially considering the recruitment problems currently facing the hospital public service, whether in CDI or CSD. Indeed, it suffers most from a lack of vocations, competition between the public and the private sector and medical desertification, which also affects public hospital services. This requires a genuine creative effort on the part of the Government and the legislator. If we do not give ourselves the means to carry out experiments, we will not be able to innovate. Moreover, our amendment offers some flexibility, since it provides that the Government will itself set the framework for this experiment. One could very well imagine, for example, a regional experiment, initially restricted to a particular territory. We do not understand why you refuse to take advantage of this opportunity we offer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u258	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor first.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u259	I am not unaware of the often expressed need of small municipalities, especially overseas, who want to recruit contract workers more easily for a particular expertise, particularly in the urban or digital sector, but how can we not fear that project contracts will open up a real Pandora's box? How can we avoid massive use of these contracts in unscrupulous communities? It is surprising to note that the duration of the project may extend up to six years, which corresponds to the duration of local mandates. Finally, if these contracts are intended to meet essentially the needs of expertise, why not limit them to category A and B agents?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u260	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u261	Article 8 provides for the creation of a new type of contract within the State and local and regional authorities, by transposing mission contracts that exist in the private sector. This provision seems to us interesting, as it will enable the specific needs of medium-sized local authorities to be met in order to carry out multi-annual investment operations or to draw up local inter-municipal planning plans. These contracts will respond to specific missions and will be limited in time. On the other hand, and that is the meaning of the proposals that we are going to make, we believe that the drafting of the text is not sufficiently precise if the projects and tasks concerned by these contracts are to be properly regulated. If this is not done, they can provide an opportunity to use contract workers more easily and to favour certain missions or positions in the territorial civil service. Finally, even if Article 40 of the Constitution prohibits us from tabling amendments to this effect, it would seem to us right, because this is the case in the private sector, that the termination of these contracts – whether it takes place, as planned, before the end of a year or after – should be compensated for precariousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u262	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u263	This article creates a new type of fixed-term contract in the public service: the project contract. This contract, which lasts between one and six years, will not be eligible for the conclusion of an open-ended contract or for tenure. It is thus an exception to the general rule of law on public contracts, which allows, after six years in the CDD, to benefit from a CDI. In addition, the project contract may be terminated before the fixed term if its object cannot be fulfilled or if it is terminated in advance. However, the project contract, based on the private sector construction contract, whose implementation and termination procedures have been considerably relaxed by the orders of 22 September 2017, will not allow for a termination indemnity in the event of an early break, as is the case for the construction contract, which is concluded in the form of a CDI. It is necessary to imagine in what invivable situation employees will find themselves under a project contract: they will not be able to make any projects because, with such uncertainty about their becoming a professional, they will be unable to access, for example, a lease or a loan. Through the project contract, the Government thus succeeds in putting in place in the civil service a contract of extreme precariousness, with which the worker will not benefit from the advantages of the contract of public law or those of the contract of private law. In this sense, the project contract is in line with the reform of the Labour Code, which has methodically brought the guarantees of employees down to the hierarchy of standards in order to gradually make the contract of individual private law, increasingly devalued or worsened, the norm applicable in the public as well as in the private sector. In other words, by generalizing the massive use of contract workers and weakening the guarantees of civil servants as their union representatives, this bill suffocates the status of the civil servant and perverts the very meaning of public action. Overt contracting runs counter to the doctrine of the general interest, as you have been reminded throughout the day. For, in order to serve the general interest, the neutrality of the administration is the basis. This implies the independence of the official from economic and political pressures. What will remain of this independence when the project contracts multiply, generating the anxiety of the next day among the employees concerned and thus leaving them under all kinds of pressure? The use of private managers in management positions will cause confusion as to the aims of the public and the private sector, increase the risk of conflicts of interest and lead to the capture of public action by the market logic of the market economy. In addition, the training and management of staff will be made more complex and random, while the public service calls for forward-looking management of staff and long-term skills to ensure, precisely, quality public action for all. [[Mrs Bénédicte Taurine applauds]] Of course, 20 per cent of contracts already exist in the public service. However, rather than systematically extinguishing the status of civil servants while overly favouring contractors, a new legislative status should be invented as a private contract, as close as possible to the most favourable interests of civil servants. Labour law should be pulled upwards, upwards of the hierarchy of norms, rather than downwards, as you do. This is the only way to strengthen our public service, which is the best-proven guarantee for alleviating the social and economic inequalities which, unfortunately, our country is far from being unscathed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u264	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u265	I wonder about the relevance of this article. We do not reject it as a whole because the possibility it opens seems interesting to us, but we do not understand how these project contracts are designed, and to whom they are actually addressed. What bothers us, to be clear, is their application to category C jobs. This question invites us to question the essence of public action and the status of the public service. If there is a project, it is above all on its pilotage that it may be interesting to have recourse to persons recruited under contract, in fact, in each of the three public functions. This aspect therefore concerns categories A and B. This is different for the execution of a project. If it requires a significant increase of collaborators, it is necessary to consider its nature; If it requires skills that the community is not in a position to supervise, would it not be better to use private partners or other structures to drive it? Above all, your measures will make the public service's most fragile job environment worse. In today's logic, mobility is rather the rule in jobs in categories A and B. This mobility is even desirable, as it gives people a broad and cross-sectional view. Category C jobs, on the other hand, ensure the permanence and stability of public action on a daily basis in the territories. I therefore find it very difficult to imagine the framework within which these jobs could be the subject of project contracts. In committee, the Secretary of State took the example of a territorial community that would open a site to convert to pesticide-free treatment of weeds, forgetting that communities no longer have the right to use pesticides. But, even on a subject like this, I do not see how category C jobs could be affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u266	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u267	I understand the value of the contract for the pilotage of the project, but its execution will always be the business of the collaborators who were there before the change of technique, and will be there afterwards. In short, I find it very difficult to understand what justifies opening project contracts to category C jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u268	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u269	So far, Mr. Secretary of State, I have agreed with many of the provisions of the bill, especially since its consideration in committee has been fruitful, on many of the issues that have already been raised and on others that will be discussed at a later stage. Article 8 is welcome in principle, both the territorial civil service, primarily – but also the state civil service – may need these project contracts, which are largely based on what is being done in the private sector; However, in the private sector, such contracts concern engineering, managerial and, in short, project drivers. This is what the impact assessment refers to. On this subject – illustrated in committee, Mr Schellenberger, by the example of a weed removal project – we are touching, I believe, on the limit that we must set in terms of flexibility in the management of our public functions. The project contract is interesting, but it can only deal with managerial functions. In fact, extending it to category B jobs is already going a long way, because, in this category, not all jobs correspond to managerial functions – even if, from now on, this is often the case in practice. Our group will therefore defend an amendment similar to those of the colleagues who have just spoken, in order to limit the project contract to categories A and B. Indeed, we fear a risk of diversion for those categories which are probably the most precarious in terms of their mobility possibilities. A balance must therefore be struck.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u270	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u271	In line with our position on the previous articles, we disagree with it. The possibility of establishing, within each of the three public functions, a mission CDD covering a project or an operation – reorganisation of services or implementation of labour orders, for example – for a period of one to six years, without giving rise to the right to tenure or to "dismissation" – as is the case, for example, after two CDDs of three years – all this reflects a desire on the part of the Government to reduce the status. When I listened to some of the speakers pointing to the need for this type of contract for specific missions, I asked myself, Mr Secretary of State, the rapporteur, which, in the Staff Regulations, prevents them from carrying out limited missions or supervising projects. What, in a word, prevents public servants from doing what, to hear you, only contract workers are able to do? What you suggest suggests is that civil servants, by virtue of their status, cannot be assigned to specific, ad hoc or limited tasks, and that they will remain, throughout their lives, in a sort of endless routine. Perhaps the colleagues in the majority could give us specific examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u272	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u273	I would like to intervene at the threshold of Article 8, which may allow me to be more brief in the opinions on the amendments. This article, as has been said, aims to create a project contract in the public service. I want to clarify the characteristics and developments. The objective is to allow governments to add specific skills to a project, over the appropriate period of time rather than at a career level. I would like to return to this point by opening up the possibility of using these contracts to a large extent, by limiting their duration to a maximum of six years and a minimum of one year, i.e. their minimum duration. We have, I believe, provided useful clarifications, which partly answer Mr Lecoq's questions: I am thinking in particular of the payment of compensation in the event of an early break and, in the case of the Law Committee, of the advance period which must precede any breach of the contract, in order to prevent it from being brutal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u274	And at the end of the contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u275	The contract, I said, must have a duration of between one and six years, but it is out of the question, let us specify, to recruit a person for an indefinite period which could vary from one to six years: the duration of the mission must be assessed and recorded in the contract; and it is this inscription that will enable us to determine whether the breach of the contract is anticipated. I would add that if an employer proposed, with the agreement of the contract holder, to extend the contract beyond six years, the rules set out in the March 2012 Act with respect to access to a CDI would apply; This is one of the reasons why we have placed project contracts under the CSD. The generalization of these contracts to the three categories – A, B and C – responds, Mrs Vichnievsky, to a readability concern and will allow the creation of teams dedicated to a project. I have seen that some groups, including the majority, have tabled amendments aimed at removing category C from the provisions of the article: I see roughly what this can give, arithmetically, as to the fate to be reserved for them; But that will not prevent me from defending the position I have just expressed. Finally, Mr Schellenberger, you have, I believe, made a confusion, moreover, without seriousness: I have not mentioned weed removal or pesticides – others have done so – but the projects of the National Agency for Urban Renewal, the ANRU.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u276	We come to the amendments to the article. I have before me three deletion amendments, Nos 129, 589 and 675. I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u277	I believe that Mr Lecoq has set the framework perfectly. This project contract is really all you don't have to do; In any case, it does not correspond at all to the expectations expressed by the French in recent months in the streets of Paris and elsewhere. When one sees the number of cases which, despite the safeguards laid down for "traditional" contracts, engulf administrative tribunals and labour councils, one thinks that one has not finished discovering the unexpected and the problems where employers plunge employees. This text confirms a higher degree of precariousness: it is indeed a precarisation of public employment that it is the breakdown of the public service which some have denounced. Despite the explanations that you have just given us, Secretary of State, we do not see how a conflict involving personnel, particularly category C, recruited under project contracts could find a favourable outcome. Our group therefore maintains its request to delete the article outright.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u278	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 589.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u279	This deletion amendment is also consistent, in line with our opposition to the extension of construction contracts under the so-called Pénicaud law – a scheme whose first evaluation evidence suggests that it is not much demanded by employers and little used. I read here the confirmation of what we saw there at the time: a fixed-term contract without a precarious premium at the end of the contract. This text does not say anything else, since it provides for termination compensation only in the event of an early termination of the contract. There is also a question about the maximum duration of six years, which is very long for a mission or a project, especially since the current law of the public service already contains many exceptions allowing the recruitment of contract staff who can be dismissed if the need for their recruitment no longer exists. So this is not only a bad idea, but a useless idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u280	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 675.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u281	We are consistent in calling for the deletion of Article 8. The identified project or transaction CSD, with a minimum duration of one year and a maximum of six years, created by this article is merely a copy of the mission contract introduced by the 2017 Labour Orders. This new CDD does not open to CDI or tenure, which is an exception to the general rule of law in the field of public contract, which allows access to a CDI after six years of CDD. Through this contract, you create disposable workers to whom you refuse any career plan, which would be positive for our public services. You are therefore making it more precarious, when we need strong public services, which involve experienced civil servants who are familiar with the services of the State. There is a need to promote genuine careers, as there is a need to provide them with guarantees of stability in order to have officials with a sense of government and public service. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This very dangerous article will cause much damage, especially overseas, where precariousness is already a law in the civil service. Ignoring, in particular, the great suffering of the majority of our communal employees, it is an instrument of additional pressure on agents devoted to the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u282	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u283	Unfavorable. As some of you have said, the project contract exists in the private sector in another form. It provides a recruitment lever for the execution of a defined operation, since it allows the duration of the contract to be adapted to the duration of the project, since it is this specific project which motivates the recruitment by the employer of a person intended to contribute to its realization. The implementation of the project contract within the public service is consistent with the same objective: to link the recruitment of an officer to the mission for which he or she was recruited. This provision will have the major advantage for the administration of enabling it to internalize activities that it tends to outsource and delegate to the private sector, not by choice but by lack of managerial tools to enable it to carry out the tasks it wishes to carry out on its own.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u284	What a nerve to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u285	This will help to strengthen the control of public works in the conduct of their operations. This will enable public employers to mobilise specific expertise for the projects they want to implement. By symmetry, this contract will also attract private sector workers who do not necessarily want to engage in their entire careers in the public service, but would be interested in carrying out operations launched by the public sector and for which their skills will prove valuable. Article 8 sets out the main rules governing the use of the project contract: its duration, between one year and six years; the reasons for its breakdown; Finally, the principle of payment of early termination compensation, the terms of which will be laid down by decree in the Council of State. In total, this is a balanced and useful mechanism that public employers can choose whether or not to seize.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u287	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u288	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u289	I repeat my question: could the Secretary of State, the rapporteur or the Members of the majority explain to us what, in the statute common to the three sides of the civil service – and beyond the possibilities of derogation allowing for the recruitment of contractors for specific missions – prevents today from assigning officials to such specific missions or from entrusting them to them in the course of their position, including for a long period of time?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u290	Or use CDDs! That's what CDDs are for!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u291	It would be useful to show us how it is absolutely necessary to use the project CSD – an idea that gives officials a caricatural image, that of people who have no interest in a specific project or competence to bring to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u292	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u293	I will answer with two examples. In the first, I want to build a stadium in my commune; I therefore use a set of procedures, including a public contract, but in my technical services I do not have the person who will have enough time to follow up the construction site. We know in advance how long we will need it: during the construction period of the stadium. If I recruit a full engineer, I open a post, I appeal to him, I pay the agent; When the stadium's over, what do I do with him?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u294	In that case, we need a CDD!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u295	As it holds, it is in excess of the number of staff; As the stadium is over, I don't have a mission to entrust to him anymore. Since the mission is over, we can remove the post, just said one of our colleagues; If I do this, he finds himself without a mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u296	What about mobility?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u297	We are listening to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u298	[[Ms. Carole Grandjean and Mr. Hervé Berville applaud]] Second example: the water agency finances two- or three-year missions to renovate natural spaces. You talk about mobility, but when you open a position to recruit an incumbent, the highly specialized engineer who presents himself does not want to lose his original position for a mission that will last only a few years, so that you cannot recruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u299	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u300	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u301	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Hence the need for project contracts to meet these needs. Local and regional practitioners, many in our ranks, know this well: otherwise, we will not be able to recruit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u302	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u303	[[Smiles and exclamations on several benches]] Is that to say that the project logic is forbidden to the owner? In my home, the engineers who built the beautiful stadium in Le Havre were not deprived of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u304	They went to Matignon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u305	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Even those who have worked in my commune of 9,000 inhabitants turn, once the project is completed, to the management center of the department and can put at the service of other communes the competence they have acquired in follow-up to the construction site at my home. When I myself needed skills, it was at the management centre, a body that protected public servants, paid them and made them available, that I turned to search for available agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u306	But skills are changing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u307	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u308	I would like to thank Mr Perea for the examples he has cited, which, irreducible to a stance, give concrete content to the debate. But I still do not see what, in what he has described, would be contradictory to the status of public servant, unless I consider that public servants would not be able to reflect on their future position when they are applying for a mission of limited duration. In this regard, ways of facilitating mobility within the public service could be discussed, so that the individual himself or herself, as well as his or her service, can anticipate what will happen next. But you speak as if we only need engineers for six years in a given city, after which we would never build a stadium anywhere! Let us therefore discuss mobility and career management. In itself, your CSD is of no use: it does nothing more than what can be done in the public service. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So I thank you very much for your examples, my dear colleague, because they illustrate exactly what I wanted to show: the precarization you are proposing is not useful. Therefore, let's work on mobility and attractiveness, but let's not pre-carry and challenge status.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u309	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u310	I agree with everything Mr Perea has said, which has shown by example our need for such contracts. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Mr Lecoq, of course, the incumbents can follow a project logic – as you know – in-house, in particular, by appointing a team dedicated to the project. Madame Obono, I listened to you if not religiously, at least stoically; Try to do the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u311	"Religiously"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u312	I said "stoically," and my preference goes to stoicism rather than religiosity, but it is a matter of personal conviction... In the current state of law, an incumbent may, if he or she so wishes, apply for a contract position and hold it by secondment, provided that the position is not in the community in which he or she performs. This is another way for an incumbent to obey a project logic. As for the argument on the mobility of incumbents, it is indeed possible and may result from an employer's choice, but poses the difficulties inherent in making the management centre available, including from the point of view of professional career. All this is not incompatible with what we are proposing and which is a complementary modality, an additional flexibility – even if you are challenging this term – when it comes to responding to a particular need. I heard Mr. Goasguen invoke the possibility of using a CSD.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u313	Yes, to two successive CDDs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u314	I could share this idea, but it raises a difficulty that the measure we are proposing makes it possible to circumvent. In the current state of the law – which we are amending in particular with regard to the state civil service and the hospital civil service – the CSDs can be, in category B, one year renewable once, which is a little short, and, in category A, three years renewable once. Here we propose an instrument that allows for the conclusion of a contract of adequate duration when the execution of a project takes two or four years. Currently, if one person is still needed for a year and a half after a three-year CSD, there is no alternative but to reopen a three-year cycle, which cannot be separated according to the project and the needs of the community. This is the problem that the measure intends to solve. I therefore maintain my opinion against the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u315	Mr Claude Goasguen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u316	The situation you will create with the project contract will still be much more difficult for the employee than if he were in renewed CDD – unless you reduce the duration of the project contract to four years. I am astonished by the sudden liberalism that emerges from your ranks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u317	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u318	But I still find this device very fragile. In French law, this would be called a service lease – and it's not really positive... Therefore, I do not think that you have any interest in creating a status that is thus close to private law. Indeed, litigation in the private sector is still more pleasant for the parties than in the public sector. I very much wish the employee, who signed such a project contract on the day he meets before an administrative tribunal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u319	Exactly! We're not going to applaud the right, but still...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u320	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor to support Amendment No. 470.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u321	This amendment proposes a regulation more similar to that introduced by the construction or operation contract. It aims to secure the specific means of redress to stabilise the social, legal and professional situation of these agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u322	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u323	I believe that the CDI model of construction sites as they exist in the private sector is not really transferable in the public service. In the private sector, collective agreements may provide for a re-employment or reclassification obligation to the employer at the end of the construction site. Otherwise, the termination of work constitutes a ground for dismissal which entitles the employee to compensation. In addition, CSDs are limited to 18 months in the private sector – except for defined purpose CSDs for managers and engineers, which can last up to three years – which naturally means switching to CDIs for longer periods. However, these terms and conditions are not appropriate for the public service in which the CSDs are renewable for a period of three years once, or a maximum of six years. In addition, the two cases at the end of the CDI construction site are not appropriate, as it would be for public employers to recruit officers for a strictly defined mission, which corresponds to temporary needs, and not to consider their recruitment as a means of integration into the public service. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, failing which I will express an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u324	Why don't you mention the termination of the project contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u326	Same opinion. I would add that we do not amend the provision of the March 2012 law that provides for the "dismissal" – a barbarism – after six years at the same post, a provision that we hold in that it is useful to combat the precariousness of contract workers and thus to stabilize their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u327	What about the termination of the project contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u328	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 950.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u329	We would like to clarify the conditions under which project contracts can be used. To respond to the criticisms that can be heard here and there about this contract, I would say that it is not such a liberal spirit. In fact, what are local authorities doing today when they want to carry out an investment project, a local plan for inter-municipal urban planning – PLUI? They call on private firms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u330	Exactly, and it's priceless!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u331	So we rely on private power, whereas, with the project contract, if we find the skills we need, we internalize them and thus we have greater control over the implementation of the project in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u332	There you go! But Mrs. Obono doesn't listen...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u333	It is in any case in this spirit that I conceive this contract, for a little, that it is reserved for the object specified by the amendment, and not for another, in order to avoid drifts. As the term "identified" in paragraph 2 does not appear to be sufficiently precise, we mean that the conditions under which a person may be recruited under that contract are to be mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u334	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u335	This amendment goes a little further than a simple clarification, since it takes up the wording of the criteria already allowing public employers to recruit category A contract staff instead of civil servants. It would therefore be tantamount to emptying from its substance the operative part of the project contract, since this is already the applicable law that section 9 of the bill will extend to categories B and C.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u336	There...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u337	Even if I assume that this is the purpose of this amendment, it would therefore deprive Article 8 of any useful effect. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u339	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u340	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u341	The end of your previous speech, Secretary of State, leads me to ask you a question. You create the project contract, on the one hand, and facilitate the use of contractors, on the other. What, then, is the obligation to transform, after two renewals, a CDD into a CDI? Either the employment in question is intended to be permanent, in which case the new rules are more flexible and allow for the hiring of a contractor in a permanent position; either it is a project position – this is the device we are currently examining – in which case there is no need to resort to a biased process, but to a project contract, which is a little more flexible than the current CDD of public law, which becomes a CDI after its second renewal. However, since we have a solution to remedy the deficiency of the current system, it is necessary to return to the logic of automatic "DCIsation" after two renewals of a CSD.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u342	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 298, 907, 964, 999, 130, 584 and 154, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 298, 907, 964 and 999 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 130 and 584. On the identical amendments Nos 298, 907, 964 and 999, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 298.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u343	I have already explained the reasons why we tabled this amendment. While we understand the logic behind the creation of the project contract for management positions – in category A and, possibly, in category B – we do not understand it, on the other hand, for executing positions – in category C, the most precarious. We understand it all the less because, since the examination of the text in committee, no example has been able to convince us. I referred earlier to the example of pesticide treatment, mentioned by the rapporteur, but the example of the town contracts you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, is no more convincing: I know a little about the complexity of these devices, and I know that it is a category B staff – at a minimum – that we need to carry out this kind of project and even, more generally, Category A agents. The examples given for a project requiring the recruitment of an engineer also show that this is a category A position. The need for the project contract is therefore well understood in this context. I am convinced that, in order for a community project to be successful, it must be piloted by the community. However, while I am convinced of the usefulness of a project contract for management functions, I have not yet found an example that justifies its extension to categories C. On the contrary, the project contract presents a risk of diversion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u344	He is right: the project contract is inapplicable for categories C.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u345	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to support Amendment No. 907.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u346	The Members of the majority are attached to the project contract, because it has been expected for a long time and because it has a real value. Mr Perea gave us a very good example earlier. We could add the installation of a computer service within a territorial community or the requalification of a neighbourhood. Then communities are free to choose how to carry out their projects. Members of the La République on the move have heard the arguments put forward by Members of all the groups concerning the possibility of opening these project contracts to staff in categories A, B and C. We agree with each other on the need to exclude category C staff for the sake of convergence with private sector practices where mission CSDs are intended for managerial or engineering positions – and this is the subject of the project contract – for the sake of convergence in social dialogue, the fight against precariousness – with the introduction of the precariousness premium –, the promotion of equality between women and men in the civil service or a conventional break-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u347	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 964.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u348	The spirit of this contract is to recruit a project leader to carry out a well-identified mission. You are proposing the formation of teams, but category C agents, for example as part of a local inter-municipal urban planning plan with the value of a local housing programme – PLUIH – will be administrative assistants responsible for reporting meetings or for the operational implementation of documents. These people, after four years, will be much less mobile than an engineer who, thanks to his experience and his qualification, will be able to return to the same type of mission in another community. Category C agents, on the other hand, have lower qualifications and, above all, a very limited capacity for geographical mobility – we see this every day in our local and regional authorities. That is why it is essential to exclude category C personnel from the scheme, unless the precarious nature of the agents which must be protected is organised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u349	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor to support Amendment No. 999.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u350	I do not know whether it is an advantage or a disadvantage to intervene in the fourth place to defend an identical amendment, since everything has been said and said, in this case, by our colleagues – each of us has, moreover, already spoken in the general discussion on Article 8. I will therefore be summary: the project contract is very interesting, especially for the local authorities, but it concerns supervisory functions to carry out a well-defined project over time. It is therefore not suitable for category C staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u351	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u352	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u353	I will not hesitate, for my part, to repeat the arguments already developed, which makes it possible to mark our state of mind and, who knows, to change the Secretary of State on the issue of category C agents, initially, pending categories B and A... The purpose of this amendment is to exclude category C personnel, i.e. those intended to perform performing duties, from the device. I recall that they represent 22 per cent of the state civil service, 50 per cent of the hospital civil service, 75 per cent of the territorial civil service, and they occupy the lowest-skilled and paid jobs. By generalizing tomorrow's use of precarious contractors to carry out missions under category C agents, you completely close the door to many of our fellow citizens for whom the public service is intended – serving the general interest – and offer the chance to pursue an evolving career despite a low qualification. It is in order to ensure this possibility that we call for missions in category C to be excluded from the project contract framework. Since these staff receive low remuneration, they cannot be forced to become more socially fragile by barring them from taking up a post of incumbent in favour of a project contract of a rather precarious nature. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, why did you not provide for the same compensation as at the end of the construction contract at the end of the project contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u354	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 584.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u355	The project contract will allow local authorities to deal internally with specific missions. This could be addressed by some communities, although it should be noted that the status of the public service already permits the use of contractors. It seems to me, on the other hand, that if it were to involve category C agents, we would not have to deal with project contracts, but, on the contrary, at the end of the projects of people in a situation of precariousness which would not allow them to chart a path towards the future under the conditions you propose or to project as you envisage. Because of the precarization of the recruitment of staff for a C-level mission, we do not consider it appropriate for the project contract to apply to projects other than those entrusted to staff in category A or B. Mr Secretary of State, given the number of amendments that go in this direction, and the quality of their defence by my colleagues, I hope that you will be able to hear us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u356	I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 154.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u357	The deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left want to be totally consistent with what they have been defending since the beginning of the examination of this bill. The amendment is intended to exclude from the project contract the performance of missions in categories A and B, i.e. managerial, design and management functions, as well as enforcement, drafting and control functions. Indeed, these categories ensure the development and proper implementation of the doctrine of public action. By contracting out these missions tomorrow, you will insinuate a different doctrine – but perhaps this is your dream, Secretary of State? You will impose the ideology of private enterprise, that of the market economy, thus blurring both the vision and the purpose of public action as a whole. I confess, Mr. Secretary of State, that this does not resemble the convictions and actions that were yours for several years. It is a manoeuvre that clearly aims at annihilating the status of civil servant and the values of public action, those of the general interest, of responsibility to all citizens and of neutrality. Being more qualified or better trained than others cannot justify being thrown into the spiral of the precarious contract. It is for this reason that we request that the missions that fall under categories A and B be excluded from this project contract framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u358	What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u359	In order to remain consistent with my arguments against the amendments to delete Article 8, I am against the amendment just supported by Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, which seeks to exclude from project contracts the tasks of category A and B agents. With regard to the missions for which category C officers could be recruited, allow me to enlighten the National Assembly, since the example of weeding seems to be of concern to some of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u360	[[Smile]] It keeps me from sleeping!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u361	I imagine, dear colleague, but this is mainly a situation that I have had to face in my previous life – if I can use this expression – in my small town of 8,000 inhabitants. Because plant protection products had just been banned, it was necessary to transform the methods and know-how of the agents of the technical centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u362	And how did you do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u363	To accompany this transfer, we had to call on an outside company, when we could have recruited an agent who would have come to explain the new methods, in the framework of a project contract – as has been done elsewhere, because it exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u364	It's not clear! What did you finally do?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u365	The same applies to snow removal: it is becoming more and more efficient from the technological and technical point of view or in terms of the organisation of teams. This is how special competence can be given. Mr Schellenberger, you know that since you also belonged to the territorial...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u366	I did not belong to the territory; I was elected local. It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u367	You were in a territorial community as an elected member, but let me continue with my remarks. Category C personnel are not only executing agents, particularly in the territorial civil service. Team leaders, for example, are master's officers who perform responsibility and leadership functions. It should be recalled, because this is the practice in the field: Category C agents are not just performers. They could therefore be perfectly project promoters. It must be said, because that is the concrete and the reality. I would also like to inform our debate by referring to the concept of a project team. Mr. Brindeau, project contracts are not just about individual situations. The Secretary of State gave the example of the ANRU, but there are many other cases in which there are teams composed of a pilot, category B experts and others of categories C – because, as I said, the expertise also belongs to this category. Finally, if we reserved project contracts for category A and B missions, Cs would be discriminated against because they would not be entitled to them. In fact, while today category C agents can be recruited by a one-year renewable contract, the Government proposes that they be offered a project contract for a period of one to six years. As a result, contrary to what you claim, you reject a device that would allow Category C agents to be installed in the expertise of project teams. I wanted these arguments to be put into the debate, because they are well-founded and should make you think. Having said that, I mean all those expressed by the various political groups. To the extent that project contracts are intended rather to cover missions under category A and B agents – I share this conviction – I see no insurmountable objection to limiting them to those missions alone. The committee is against the possibility of abolishing the possibility of recruiting a category C agent by a project contract, but, in my personal capacity, as rapporteur, I rely on the wisdom of the House with regard to Amendment No 907.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u368	[[Smile]] It's very practical!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u369	Why only this one?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u371	The rapporteur went ahead of me by telling you that Category C officials and equivalent contractors were not systematically confined to implementing tasks: some could supervise a team or accompany processes. The argument concerning the duration of contracts must also be understood: in the state of the law of the territorial civil service – and we do not envisage, at this stage, amending this provision – category C contracts are limited in their duration to two times a year, while project contracts could give a perspective for the longer term. I would also point out that there would be an interest in being able to form project teams: all members of the team would work in a project logic, including those who would perform an assistance mission. That is why we defended in committee the retention of categories C within the scope of the project contract. Having said that, I have seen that all the groups have tabled amendments to exclude category C staff from the scope of Article 8. I do not know whether Mrs Untermaier will consider that I am hearing the House, but, in any case, if I do not hear, I can count. I maintain the Government's unfavorable opinion on all the amendments, although it is without great illusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u372	I know you hear, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u373	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u374	Once it is not customary, I absolutely agree with the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u375	You're right, they were going to be a minority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u376	I think it's a matter of reading. It is well specified in article 8 that a project contract for categories A, B and C may be used only "to carry out an identified project or transaction". An identified project or operation does not necessarily involve weeding or cleaning sidewalks. One of our colleagues cited the example of building a stadium. In order to follow from A to Z a construction site that may last three, four or five years, one does need a project manager, a head of mission, but there is also a need for a team around him. A single person won't be able to do everything. Recruiting a leader will not be enough; It is also necessary to recruit members of his team.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u377	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u378	In other words, we need the project contract for category C personnel. I come to a second argument. We all struggle to win the battle against unemployment. I remember a television report, during the last presidential campaign, where one could see the future President of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u379	The excellent President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u380	Immanuel Macron, address a lady who was in receipt of an aided contract. Macron explained to him, in broad terms, that he wanted to eliminate assisted jobs, because he found that it was not worthy of the people who benefited from it, because they were kind of subcontracts. We were then able to hear his interlocutor reply: "Mr. Macron, I prefer to have a contract and a job helped than no contract at all! » People like this lady, I meet them every day in my constituency. They tell me: Madam Member, you know, I prefer to have a six-year, five-year, three-year or even one-year contract, rather than a contract at all. No employment at all, that is what will happen if we exclude category C jobs, because, with the constraints on them, local and regional authorities are very reluctant to recruit civil servants. They would prefer to recruit for missions with project contracts. We will have this discussion again in Article 10, since you have excluded Category C agents from the benefits of its provisions. This is the same kind of hypocritical article: to avoid having to recruit civil servants in category C, the local authorities will use the mission contracts, which will allow them to short-circuit your device. Either you keep Category C officers within the scope of your measurements, or they will mean that those who might have been recruited will not have a job. I don't know what you prefer; I prefer jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u381	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u382	You mentioned earlier, Madam rapporteur, a peculiar situation. As rapporteurs and MPs, our role is not to solve all the small problems that we have encountered, both in our lives before our mandate, or in our lives as mayor. We can also leave these questions aside to try to vote the law instead of dealing with our little hassles of the past.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u383	Thank you for your lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u384	It's the man who keeps telling us stories that tell us that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u385	I come back to this unique situation. I note that you did not tell us the end of your story, which, however, might be the most interesting part of it: how did you finally do it to weed and snow?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u386	That's right, we didn't understand how you did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u387	You didn't hear me, colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u388	You need to know, you want us to tell you stories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u389	We understand that you have encountered a huge problem, but I am sure that you have found solutions, as we have all done in our communes, using already existing devices. Moreover, extending the project contract to category C agents is not an opportunity for them. You concluded, Madam rapporteur, by explaining to us that Category C agents would be angry at not having the chance to access these contracts. You may think that they will certainly be happy not to have access to this kind of precarious contract. Basically, we are protecting them from insecurity, because it is not a chance to have access to such precarious contracts. In the case of short contracts, the situation is not the same when you are an engineer, you can demonstrate real mobility and you have real skills to sell, and when you fall into category C. To say that is not to denigrate anyone, it is simply to describe reality. From this point of view, unemployment figures speak for themselves. In conclusion, it seems to me that care must be taken not to deprive our communities of their skills. If we want the agents to weed by using new techniques, it is better to train them rather than go get someone who will do the job for a year by exercising a kind of small guardianship, before disappearing. Officers must be trained within the community. Project contracts, applied to category C, are a languishing bonus for some community organizations. They will push some communities to seek outside skills without being concerned about doing so in-house in a meaningful and sustainable manner, while the professional training of officers can be an opportunity for the community as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u390	All right, I agree with everything, except the word "flying"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u391	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u392	The rapporteur has given a wise opinion on Amendment No 907, and I take it that it also applies to the others, the wording of which is strictly the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u393	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u394	They don't allow themselves to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u395	It is worth noting, since these amendments are not just from the majority. As for the examples you have given, it is not true that a garden chef will be brought in, for example, to adapt methods of floral production, by offering him a contract. You won't find him. One could at the limit imagine, to fill this type of position, a Category C employee on secondment or lay-off, provided, of course, that he or she does not belong to the same community. But you won't find one. Similarly, you will find it difficult to find people with such qualifications, coming from the private sector, to sign a contract of this nature, for obvious reasons of less professional mobility: their qualifications, qualified as weak – it is not pejorative – do not allow them to do so. On the other hand, thanks to its experience and qualification, a project manager can bounce back to a particular mission, whether in the public or in the private sector. It is therefore absolutely necessary to exclude from the scheme those staff members at level C. This will not lead to increased use of the CSD by communities for additional activity, since it is in any case limited to two years. We are talking about missions which, obviously, will last more than two years. It is therefore necessary to set aside these project contracts for project managers, heads of mission or mission leaders – who can form a team, as you said – but above all not for the mere execution of these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u396	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u397	Since the time has come for wisdom, have the time, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, to acknowledge that we have made this proposal by the voice of Olivier Marleix during the committee's work. You didn't join it, then. If you give an opinion of wisdom or even a satisfaction to Mr Gouffier-Cha's amendment, you also give it to Mr Marleix and Mr Brindeau. I believe it would be in your honour to recognize this, even if I do not ignore the political logic that inspired your approval. Two comments on project contracts. First of all, I would be pleased if this amendment would put an end to the Middle Ages practice that you are proposing to us, the result of which would be the precarisation of Category C officials. While I hear the arguments that some of them perform supervisory functions, most of them are executing agents, and are the most disadvantaged category of the public service, where there are already many ways of hiring derogating. The project contract you are proposing, through a team, will not work. Communities will prefer outsourcing, rather than subjecting themselves to management costs, the search for premises, and the obligation to occupy an in-house team for several years. This type of contract is interesting for managerial or think-tank positions, especially since, in the context of decentralization, the State withdraws from a number of services. Local and regional authorities are therefore increasingly in need of specific competences, particularly in the areas of safety, health or urban planning. But, in any case, it cannot be imagined that they would involve momentary militias, involving category A, B and C officials, who in no way correspond to the spirit of the project contract that you originally wanted to promote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u398	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u399	I would like to thank the rapporteur for her wise opinion on an amendment which was actually tabled in committee by our colleagues in the Republican Group and by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. I note today that he is gaining support on all the benches. It must therefore correspond to a legitimate claim. However, I have heard your arguments, Madam rapporteur, that the project contract is for a team. I am sensitive to this, but I think, as some of my colleagues have said, that Category C agents will be found very widely in-house. I am not saying that they cannot be found outside, through this project contract which would be addressed not only to the management, but also to the technical agents; but this possible application to category C agents would only take place in very rare cases. For the vast majority of them, this contract is rather a risk of precarisation, especially since it could be diverted by employers. It will therefore be wise to adopt this amendment. As I do not wish to impose on our House the fatigue following the repetition, I am left with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u400	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u401	[[Smile]] It is easy to stop after repeating. I'll do the same. As a matter of fact, I liked the example of the stadium, but there are many others. However, it is not certain that there is a need, in project teams, for category C personnel.Let us say that this is the case: if you propose to communal agents to accompany a project, it is valuing for them, it makes them breathe, leaving their daily lives to accompany, on behalf of the community, an ambitious project. That's how we organised the French chess championships – it took us almost a year. It's good for everyone, it gives energy in services. Therefore, it is not necessary to seek outside agents, whether in category C or in category C, for project contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u402	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u403	I feel like we're converging. I would like to recall the reflections that have taken place, both in committee and afterwards, and to stress the openness and wisdom of our rapporteur, as well as the openness of the Secretary of State on this subject. In this case, I think we can reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u404	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u405	I wanted to thank, on behalf of the Socialist Group, the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, who, if he did not give an opinion of wisdom, gave us the freedom to make the most appropriate choice in this area. I think that's the right choice. We had also tabled an amendment in committee, and we are delighted at this stage that our collective efforts are producing effects for a category C that really needs the full attention of employers, especially for these agents to move towards permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u406	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u407	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 298, 907, 964 and 999.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u408	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 59 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 48 Against 6
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u409	Amendment No 375 by Mr Olivier Serva is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u410	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 249, 250, 251, 39 and 588, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 39 and 588 are identical. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendments Nos 249, 250 and 251, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u411	They are based on the same foundation. We were talking earlier about the convergence of contracts between private and public. One thing is clearer and simpler in the private sector: there is no floor time, because a project does not necessarily last a whole year. For my part, I worked in computer science for more than ten years as a project manager, and my projects lasted six to nine months, and not necessarily a year. I therefore propose either to remove the floor time or to reduce it to three or six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u412	The next speaker is Mr Robin Reda, in support of Amendment No 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u413	It will not be very liberal, Mr President, since it is exactly the opposite: we are proposing to extend the floor time. Labour law provides for a defined purpose CSD, which could be, broadly speaking, the equivalent of the project CSD. Its minimum duration is 18 months. It would still be a great deal if the public service, including a contractual public official, were to be less so than labour law. It is therefore legitimate for us to align this floor time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u414	Amendment No 588 by Mr Boris Vallaud is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u415	I can hear the arguments of some, but also those of others. In the end, the one-year limit seems to me to correspond well to the overall framework of the public service: the CSDs are set on this period, not on 18 months, as in the private sector. On the lower threshold, dear colleague, we are precisely debating – and I hope the House will follow us – the subject of precariousness, especially contracts of less than a year. Therefore, new forms of precariousness should not be created through project contracts. Unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u416	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u417	The duration of one year seemed to me, too, a good compromise, and its continuation will be consistent with the adoption of amendments excluding category C staff from the scope of the project contract. In the territorial civil service, if the law as we propose applied, category C contracts would be limited to twice a year. Thus, there is some logic in retaining thresholds that are crossing thresholds between each other. The duration of one year therefore seems to us to be the most logical. For the shorter contracts, of which Mrs Motin spoke, there are other possibilities, whether they are recruitments or even vacations, even if we are not fanatics, that is the least we can say, vacations. Therefore, we do not consider it justified to lower this threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u418	I call Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u419	To be in favour of this article, I am aware of the words of several of my colleagues calling for its deletion: I, like them, have met with a large number of actors, in my territory and elsewhere, who fear the transformation of this project contract into an instrument to circumvent the rules that protect contractors from unfair dismissal or clientelistic practices. Indeed, in its current wording, any employer wishing to carry out a project, without specifying the nature of the project, could hire a contractor for a period of between one and six years – this has been widely repeated. In comparison, the Labour Code provides, for the analogy of the project contract in the private sector, that these contracts are reserved for engineers or managers, and that their implementation is conditional on the existence of a branch or company agreement defining the economic needs to which these contracts are likely to respond. The purpose of this amendment is to rely on the wisdom of the Council of State to clarify the areas in which the use of this type of contract would be justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u421	I find it difficult to establish by regulation a list of projects or operations for which the project contract would be open. Either the defined scope is very broad, and this provision is not useful, or it is too limited, and the development of this new method of recruitment will be greatly hampered. The idea is to trust public employers, especially those elected for the territorial civil service, when they consider it necessary to do so. The creation of such a position will be the subject of deliberation in the territorial public service: it will pass on to the territorial social committee and then to the executive. That is why I am asking you to withdraw the amendment, failing which I will express an unfavorable opinion on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u423	Same advice: unfavourable or withdrawal. The Government wishes to give employers freedom and flexibility to conclude these project contracts. If the project contract were to be concluded on an illegal basis, the review of legality would apply. We are therefore not in favour of a decree in the Council of State governing the themes of project contracts. As with the previous amendment, having reserved it to categories A and B – although I have expressed some disagreement about the nature of the tasks assigned to categories C – seems to me to be largely limiting the risk you fear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u424	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 252.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u425	Paragraph 12 of the article provides for compensation in the event of an early termination of the contract: this amendment is intended to ensure that such compensation takes into account the seniority and remuneration received by the person who would have his or her contract terminated prematurely, so that such compensation cannot be lump sum or even unfair.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u426	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u427	This amendment faces drafting difficulties, since seniority cannot be attributed to a contract: it can only be attributed to the agent who concluded it. Without prejudging the content of the decree, which I will allow the Government to clarify, I request the withdrawal of the amendment. Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u428	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u429	While stressing the same drafting difficulty, I would like to clarify the implementing decree: it will take into account the length of service in the position, in any case the duration of the contract, and the level of remuneration. It would be incongruous to determine an early termination indemnity that does not take these two elements into account. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u430	Amendment No 404 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u431	He's satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u432	Amendment No 406 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u433	I'm asking for his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u434	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u435	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u436	Amendment No 405 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u437	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor in support of Amendment No 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u438	It targets senior CSDs, which are too little used, while the unemployment rate among seniors, alas, is still not falling. The amendment aims to allow communities or public establishments with a population of less than 20,000 to employ persons over 57 years of age registered as job seekers for more than three years, for a contract of up to 18 months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u439	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u440	I share your concern: accompaniment to return to employment is a major social issue, in which the public service has already invested heavily. Two mechanisms already exist: the career path in the territorial, hospital and state civil service – the PACTE – for categories C, established in 2006, and the contract for preparation for category A and B competitions – the PRAB – created by the Equality and Citizenship Act of 27 January 2017. The CAPTE is open to low- and low-skilled persons between 16 and 28 years of age and to long-term unemployed persons aged 45 and over who are beneficiaries of the RSA. This allows access to employment through qualifying training that can lead to tenure in category C posts. At the same time, as part of a six-year experiment, the PRAB contract, which, I repeat, was created by the law of 27 January 2017, is a fixed-term contract under public law, which allows the person recruited from a category A or B job to receive training in preparation for competitions corresponding to the job held. Like the CAPTE, it targets unemployed young people aged 28 or over or those over 45 who benefit from the AHR. The PRAB facilitates the integration or re-entry into working life by enabling the beneficiary to practise as a contracting public official while preparing for the category A or B public service competitions. The existing arrangements within the civil service already help to promote the occupational integration of people with employment difficulties, regardless of the level of qualification, including the elderly. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, I would express an unfavorable opinion on this one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u441	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u442	Same opinion. The PRAB allows its beneficiary to register for the duration. Of course, the device you are proposing is aimed at people over the age of 57. However, with a statutory retirement age of 62 years, without taking into account the need for each other to work longer, the 24-month scheme seems to us to be better suited. We would collectively benefit from making more use of it. It exists, it is in force and we have given instructions to make more use of it: however, the mobilization around this device is still not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u443	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u444	I thank the rapporteur and the Secretary of State for their replies. I am both of these mechanisms as special rapporteur on the budget: it is clear that they are not intended for the same public as my amendment. This is, moreover, one of the challenges of the ICP – an investment plan in skills – led by Mrs Pénicaud. It is difficult, in fact, to offer training to a 57-year-old in order to reorient the last five years of his career. On the contrary, the Senior CSD allows a person to be directly employed according to his or her skills: that is why I want the public service to be able to use it. I therefore maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u445	Amendment No 505 by Mrs Émilie Chalas, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u446	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 8. Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 121.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u447	The purpose of this amendment by Mrs Racon-Bouzon is to enable public scientific and technological institutions to make use of the mission or project CDI, this type of contract being particularly suitable for research.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u448	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 275.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u449	After Article 8, the sitting department placed this amendment, which has almost the same object as Amendment No 279. I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u450	You also have the floor to support Amendment No 1120.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u451	The same applies to this one, Mr. Chairman: I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u452	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-16-O1235.u453	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the Public Service Transformation Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
