ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u1	The next item is the debate on Mr Arnaud Viala's proposal for a law to support the operation of the departmental fire and rescue services and to promote the profession of professional and voluntary firefighter (No. 1649 rectified, 1818).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u2	I call Mr Arnaud Viala, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u3	The Republicans Group has chosen to put on the agenda a bill to support the operation of the departmental fire and rescue services as well as to enhance the profession of professional firefighter and the commitment of volunteer firefighters. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This text is the result of a long work of consultation carried out with several of my colleagues that I would like to quote: Valérie Lacroute with whom we conducted each stage of this precise and concerted work and which I thank for the team spirit with which she animated all our hearings and reflection sessions, Patrick Hetzel, Stéphane Viry, Jean-Louis Thiériot with whom we shared our approaches to enrich this text, Julien Aubert, Éric Pauget and Rémi Delatte whose specific contributions were essential. I would also like to thank the many experts from the large world of firefighters who have brought their knowledge, their visions and their expectations to the National Assembly as well as to our departments and territories. Allow me to send a friendly wink to the chairman of the SDIS of Aveyron, to his director, to the president of the Union départementale de l'Aveyron and to my friends firefighters who have usefully and with a great deal of sympathy contributed to this proposal. I am therefore sending a great message of gratitude to the eighty firefighters who came from all over France, who have invested for the occasion the galleries of the Chamber this afternoon. Their commitment and work must be welcomed and their presence today is the most touching signal of support and encouragement that they could send us. We will not forget this and will redouble our efforts to satisfy and support them. I also invite the Secretary of State and the majority to reflect carefully on the message they will send to these sappers tonight; It will not be annoyed, nor without consequence. Finally, allow me to thank the Administrator of the Law Commission for his work and diligence during these weeks of preparation. Our group has chosen to conduct this work and to put this bill in this niche today for several reasons that I want to detail. First of all, our French-language civil safety model is very different in that it is based on the dedication of 40,000 professional firefighters, 11,000 administrative and technical personnel and nothing less than 195000 volunteer firefighters. That is to say, if this new and effective package deserves the attention of the legislator in a time when, in particular as a result of the severe restrictions on the budgets of local and regional authorities, the rather exceptional territorial network that we benefit from could be undermined if its sustainability were not ensured. The second observation is that each year, firefighters' interventions help about 5% of the French population, or nearly 4 million victims in 2017. You who are probably attending the ceremonies of Sainte-Barbe, you know that the number of interventions, especially dedicated to the relief of the person, is constantly increasing, and does not allow any settlement if we consider the cumulative effects of the increase in life expectancy, the level of dependence of our fellow citizens, the reorganization to provide for our hospital and health services and climatic changes. Third observation: a cluster of societal trends today challenges our French model of civil security and makes adjustments just as necessary as urgent. Voluntary engagement is increasingly constrained by the rhythms of life of our fellow citizens and by professional, family, leisure and social aspirations. Commitment is becoming more and more complicated. Fourth observation: this model is also threatened by a very cyclical peril. Along with the law enforcement and security forces of our country, our firefighters are being attacked to testify to the unrest in our society. We must ensure that they are protected. In 2017, 2800 of them were victims of assaults and 382 of their vehicles were damaged. As the number of interventions continues to grow, we do not take sufficient account of their fatigue and the risks they face in carrying out their missions. Fifth observation: the modern needs expressed by the French for the safety of their person and property require us to go back to the lack of resources and investments dedicated to the modernization of the SIDS which have led to the gradual deterioration of the material and the obsolescence of the information systems, in particular at the expense of the professional firefighters. Sixth observation: the preservation of the French model also depends on its ability to integrate into the European framework. Today, the specificities of volunteering present difficulties with regard to certain texts. In February 2018, in its Matzak judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that Belgian volunteer firefighters should be regarded as workers within the meaning of the 2003 European Working Time Directive and were therefore subject to its provisions. However, the implications of this directive for rest and cumulation of activities almost prevent the reconciliation of voluntary work and employment. The French model is at risk. But France is not alone in this situation. In Europe, 2.2 million firefighters have a status comparable to that of volunteer firefighters. In Germany alone, 94% of firefighters are volunteers. It is therefore essential to launch a European initiative on this subject. Through this bill, we offer Parliament's support to the Government in its negotiations with the Commission. The challenge we face is a priority because the security of our citizens and equality between the territories are at stake. As far as security is concerned, the territorial grid must be as thin as possible. The protection of populations is not in question alone. It is also necessary to preserve our rural areas, their attractiveness and their economic activity by guaranteeing the presence of local relief. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Government announced reports and think tanks, but the implementation of the proposals was constantly postponed. I must confess our surprise and also, why not say so, our dismay last week in the committee of laws when the majority chose to reject one by one each of the articles of a bill that is constructive, non-controversial, open and truly consensual. It has thus preferred attentism, what we do not understand, what our firefighters do not accept, and what our fellow citizens will not forgive you. Let me now introduce the various sections of this bill. First, it aims to increase the attractiveness of volunteerism, encourage, encourage and facilitate the expression of vocations by accompanying companies employing volunteer firefighters, supporting training and enabling more students to take internships within SIDS. 75% of volunteer firefighters are employed, more than half of whom are private employees. Article 1 therefore proposes to support enterprises employing VPS by reducing employers' contributions on their wages. In the vast majority of TPEs and SMEs in my territory, where entrepreneurs themselves are very involved in volunteering, the company can be at risk when it has only two employees and one of them leaves it for an intervention. Load relief represents a very meagre recognition of a firefighter's commitment to the workforce. In return, Article 2 lays down a minimum period of leave of absence of eight days to facilitate access to training and the mobilization of VPS in the event of disasters. Article 3 promotes access for all to voluntary firefighter training and proposes to generalize internships in health studies. Secondly, our bill aims to protect and support professional and voluntary firefighters in terms of both social protection and security – sections 5, 6 and 10. The latter article provides for increased sanctions in the event of an attack on a firefighter in the performance of his or her duties. It opens an indispensable debate on the recognition by our country of the commitment of those who make up our forces of law and order and security. Thirdly, this proposal from you aims to modernise the SIDS to improve working conditions through Article 12 which provides for the opening of a single emergency number, 112, and the creation of departmental platforms. Article 11 relates to the information system, says NexSIS. I will not detail the other provisions. These measures would make it possible to better reconcile the demands of missions, personal life and professional life of firefighters. This bill deals with a subject that concerns us all and that goes beyond our political divisions: the promotion of citizen engagement. I hope that we can look at it calmly and retain the most useful provisions. We deliver it to you as a legislative vehicle, turnkey, usable by our assembly to immediately meet the most urgent expectations of our firefighters and our fellow citizens. In short, we ask you to hold a real democratic debate here and now on a subject that brings us all together, in order to clarify France's position vis-à-vis its firefighters and to allow the Government to give a blow to the work that it claims to be carrying out in this area. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, our firefighters are here, listening to you and looking at you. Don't disappoint them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u4	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u5	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u6	In my turn, I welcome the important delegation of firefighters in this House. I apologize for the absence of Mr Castaner, retained by the G7 of the Ministers of the Interior. Being a firefighter – voluntary, professional or military – is an exceptional commitment. You have reminded us of this, Mr rapporteur, and I can of course only abound in your view. Last year, again, the 250,000 French firefighters intervened more than 4.6 million times, an intervention every seven seconds or so. They have taken care of 3.8 million people. They saved lives. They have protected lives and prevented life accidents. As you have pointed out, Mr rapporteur, these interventions now consist, in their vast majority – more than 80% – of aid to people, in conditions that are sometimes very complicated – I will come back to that earlier: you have spoken about the increasingly frequent phenomenon of attacks on firefighters during these interventions. I also want to take this opportunity to pay tribute, once again, to the remarkable work done by our firefighters throughout France. They answer all calls and are always present for others. That is why the Government shares with you all the will to defend and better protect firefighters. The bill we are considering today is part of that laudable intention. However, many of the provisions of this text are redundant in relation to the measures of the Action Plan for Volunteerism announced on 29 September, some of which are now being implemented. Others are under study and others are finally under way. Your proposals could also be rushed in relation to some of the Government's projects – I am thinking in particular of pension reform. To vote on this bill today is to take a risk...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u7	It's urgent to wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u8	... initiatives whose consequences we have not yet considered, and which could prove to be good misconceptions. These measures, if voted, would also prevent the progress being made and the proper implementation of the Voluntary Plan, which is being followed up by the National Council of Volunteer Firefighters, led by Senator Catherine Troendlé. I would like to give you a few examples, to go into more detail. As you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, Article 2 proposes that a strict number of days of absence per calendar year should be included in the law, in order to allow voluntary firefighters to live their commitment: 8 days, compulsory, for companies with more than 250 employees and 5 or 8 days for companies with less than 250 employees. To ensure that volunteer firefighters have time to respond to their commitment is, as a matter of principle, an objective to which we fully subscribe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u9	So support the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u10	But, in fact, it can also be a false good idea. First, the measure as drafted does not necessarily correspond to the operational reality of firefighters. It would allow voluntary firefighters only to be absent for foreseeable actions, such as pre-programmed training actions, and not for day-to-day operational actions, which are currently the main challenge for SIDS. Moreover, the chosen quantification – 8 or 5 days – and its mandatory nature could also be counterproductive. The first could have an immediate perverse effect on employers who already accept volunteer firefighters among their employees, sometimes for much higher levels of engagement. They would then have to renegotiate the availability agreements to bring them back to the quota set by law. As for employers who are already apprehensive about the idea of hiring volunteer firefighters, this measure could dissuade them even more, whereas the objective is precisely the opposite – and, of course, we share it. In the end, this measure should have the effect of hindering volunteerism, curbing the recruitment of volunteer firefighters and reducing the availability of volunteer firefighters in SIDS. Article 3, on training, or Article 4, on the integration of volunteer firefighters into the public service, largely corresponds to existing arrangements, in whole or in part. Article 6, on pensions, expresses a concern of which the Government is aware. We brought it to the attention of the High Commissioner for Pension Reform in the summer of 2018. But we are not going to make specific arrangements today, even though a global modernisation of our pension system is coming soon. Giving medical students the opportunity to do internships in SIDS, as provided for in Article 9 of the proposal, is a very good thing. But again, why take such a step without consultation, without discussion of its practical modalities, even though initiatives along the same lines are about to be implemented, in line with commitment VII of the Action Plan for Volunteerism, which I referred to at the moment. As for Article 13, which aims to exclude volunteer firefighters from the application of the 2003 European Working Time Directive, I would like to make two points. On the form, first, it seems that the article is missing its target. It is probably not constitutional, since it lacks the normative scope essential to the law, according to a consistent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. On the other hand, the article as it is written is probably too imprecise and could lead to not even protecting volunteer firefighters. The term "altruistic" used in the drafting refers, in fact, to a form of gratuitousness and lack of matching in the undertaking. As you know, voluntary firefighters are entitled to hourly allowances as well as social and end-of-service benefits. In substance, now, this addition to the Code of Internal Security could revive debates, at a time when we must, on the contrary, explain our model with clarity and good faith, in the context of the Matzak case-law, which you mentioned, Mr rapporteur. So, if I understand perfectly, and if I fully share the objective of this article, I think it would actually be detrimental to the volunteer firefighters, and I remind you – we have often discussed it here and in the Senate – that the Government has already dealt with this matter; that there is no question of questioning volunteerism – let's be clear – and that we have launched two projects on Matzak case law at the same time. The first, which we announced, is the exploitation of the derogations permitted by the Working Time Directive. A decree is expected to be issued in the coming months. It will allow volunteers to always reconcile their commitment and professional activity. The second involves a longer-term approach, which is currently being taken with the European authorities in order to enshrine the specific nature of the status of a volunteer firefighter. I fully agree with you, Mr rapporteur, when you say that this status is not unique, that it exists in other countries and that a European initiative on this point is absolutely desirable. As for the vote on the provision, of course we know Parliament's full support for the Government's defence of this volunteerism of firefighters and of this adaptation of European texts. I did not quote all the sections of this bill, but I could continue with that presentation. I think I will also have the opportunity to do so later in the discussion. A referral to the committee would bring the proposals of this text into line with those, very interesting, on which MP Fabien Matras, co-author of a report on volunteering, is currently working.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u11	So support this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u12	Finally, I would like to say a word, Mr rapporteur, on a subject which you have mentioned: the attacks on firefighters. They did indeed show a significant increase in the year 2018. For a large part of them, they are the very fact of the victims whom firefighters will rescue. I would like to point out that in all departments we have a protocol for the common application of fire and rescue services and police and gendarmerie forces, which allows for the supervision of interventions. In addition, a series of provisions allow for complaints to be taken up and arranged. We reminded all the Prefects last week of the importance of the full implementation of these protocols, which aim to ensure the safety of our firefighters in their interventions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to tell you, reminding you that we share the objective of this proposal, but that it is wiser for us to stick to the implementation of the Action Plan for Volunteerism, which is also partly the result of the work of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u13	Firefighters will remember!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u14	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u15	We all have at our heart, whenever possible, to improve the working conditions of firefighters, whether they practise this beautiful profession as professionals, or because of a strong citizen engagement, as volunteer firefighters. [[Applause on all benches]] I wanted to pay tribute this afternoon to the strong presence of firefighters in our Chamber, to listen to our debates which I hope will be conclusive! This is the second time in a week that a bill dealing with civil security, and in particular firefighters, is being debated in this House. In fact, last Tuesday, the proposed text Ms Catherine Troendle, Vice-President of the Senate, allowing the 11,200 administrative, technical and specialized staff to be represented in the various SIDS bodies, received our general approval. This shows the deep attachment of parliamentarians, whether they belong to the Republican Group or sit on other benches, on a central subject. Today, the bill that you are proposed to study is the result, as the rapporteur has said, of a joint work with my colleagues Arnaud Viala, Patrick Hetzel, Stéphanie Viry and Jean-Louis Thiériot, present this afternoon. This text is the essence of our five original, enriched bills, following extensive work carried out over the past six months with experts, and following numerous consultations and hearings that we have carried out in our respective departments. Whether they are departmental directors, head of a rescue centre, a professional firefighter or a volunteer, all welcomed this joint initiative to ensure that this profession of professional or volunteer engagement evolves. The firefighters of France deserve our attention and recognition of the work they do. They expect us, legislators, to take into account their difficulties and to respond to their growing concerns through strong decisions and measures. I believe that by examining this afternoon, with all the seriousness it requires, this bill, we have the means to meet the expectations of firefighters. Let us give them and their families a strong signal, not just a political signal, a signal of hope, that of the consideration they have in our society and in our Republic. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority – there are not many of you this afternoon – to discuss this bill together. It involves very pragmatic measures. As we have been told on many occasions by the members and administrators of the National Federation of Firefighters, this text brings new advances, and the approach is ambitious. Everyone can observe it in their territory, we could not have as many professional firefighters as we now have volunteer firefighters. We need these volunteer firefighters all the more because our territory is very diverse and has many large rural areas. This mesh is also an opportunity for our country. That is why we have devoted several articles to volunteering. One of them leads to the recognition of the voluntary firefighter for what he is: a person who freely engages in the service of others, who enjoys, like every citizen, fundamental freedoms and rights, but who carries out his activity under conditions which are his own, without the organisation of professional working time being applied to him. Today, we expect the French Government to weigh its weight so that, as part of the process of renegotiating the European directive, a special clause is introduced that will exclude the voluntary firefighters from its scope. Otherwise, our civil security model would face serious challenges. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Voluntary firefighters must under no circumstances be treated as workers. It is not acceptable for uncertainty to weigh permanently on the future of volunteering. There is an urgent need for action. Secretary of State, and you, colleagues of the majority, how not today to provide positive responses to simple and common-sense proposals, which facilitate access to social housing located near rescue centres, which grant a bonus of retirement quarters to volunteer firefighters who have completed at least fifteen years of service – we do not commit here the overall reform of pensions – which extend the availability granted by the companies to volunteer firefighters, who offer adapted training, who formulate recognition of the achievements, who upgrade the status of firefighter, who grant an internship opportunity to second-cycle medical students with the status of voluntary firefighter physician, who unify the emergency call numbers – 112, 18 and 15 – on a single basis per department and in the interest of our fellow citizens, who grant free access to the highways for the vehicles of firefighters in operation – the acquisition decree has still not been published, or which is designed to renew the fuel, or which, in the same way, make it possible for the soldiers to buy more fuel, or which, in the same way, make it possible for the soldiers to buy more fuel, or to buy more fuel. The second area on which we found it necessary to strengthen the legal arsenal is undoubtedly the aspect of aggression. Working conditions are slowly breaking down, while interventions are increasing. These incivilities, as you know, Secretary of State, take different forms. The guets-apens are the most common type of attack: even in my commune of Nemours, firefighters have been attacked twice this year – this is the first time. They are increasingly faced with individual violence by fragile, alcoholic or drug-dependent people. The text therefore proposes that any moral violation of the dignity or respect of a firefighter should be treated in a uniform manner and that all such offences should be punished very strongly. The bill before you will not, of course, solve all the problems, but it sends encouraging signals to our firefighters. That is why the various positions taken by our colleagues in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure have left me at least dubitative on a subject as burning as that of firefighters. You didn't take your responsibilities. You simply started to kick in by sending the text back later, on the grounds that a group of studies had just been created and that it was necessary to go even further: two fifty hours of unsuccessful exchanges, during which no measure has aroused any interest with you! You have used only the words: "study group" – one more, which will push back the debate and, above all, will shift over time the urgent measures our firefighters expect. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This attitude does not honor the parliamentarians of the majority or the Government. I would even say that she is disrespectful of men and women who, every day, are on the front and risk their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u16	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u17	The sixty firefighters present in the gallery to follow our deliberations may be terribly disappointed to learn, in a few moments, that you are about to block this bill by resorting to a motion to refer it to committee. You can't disappoint them. The French have for their firefighters admiration, consideration, I will even say affection, because they know the foundations of their commitment: self-giving, willingness to render service, unselfish service for the benefit of the community, solidarity and spirit of body. That legitimizes this text and our debate. This deserves, above all, a genuine recognition of the nation, through concrete measures included in the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To this end, I invite you to study together, courageously, this bill presented by the Republican Group and to debate it, with a view to adopting concrete measures that are quickly operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u18	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u19	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the presence in the gallery of firefighters, particularly those in my department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Don't disappoint them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u21	Don't worry. The firefighters' family brings together nearly 250,000 women and men who have made the laudable choice of putting themselves at the service of the other: 80% are volunteers who have committed themselves to giving part of their time, in addition to the one they devote to their work, their education or their family life. These women and men are driven above all by an altruistic vocation, united under the same motto: "Courage and devotion". To these women and men, to whom we owe a great deal, I would like once again to pay tribute in this House, which knows only too well what personal investment represents in the service of its fellow citizens. Despite the nobility of this profession, today we are witnessing a crisis of vocations, to which we must respond, which requires two major challenges that we must face. The first is the means of guaranteeing optimal conditions of exercise. The second is to ensure the full safety of firefighters in the performance of their missions, in the face of the violence which, shamefully, is multiplying. As far as the means are concerned, if the budget allocated to civil security has increased by 1.5% in the 2019 budget, it will surely be necessary to go further to support fire and rescue services. Indeed, SIDS sees the number of their assistance interventions for people progress each year, in particular to compensate for deficiencies in territories suffering from medical desertification, which obliges them to ensure an ever-increasing number of health transports, which are emerging from their initial missions. It should be noted that SIDS missions are now 84% focused on victim assistance and personal assistance, an increase of 40% over the last 10 years. This requires not only a rethinking of the organisation of civil security, by redefining the contours of SIDS missions in relation to the various partners, but also a review of the funding model, on the part of local authorities or the State. According to the territories, there are many disparities that could create imbalances between SIDS according to the community on which they depend. A genuine flat-rate should be carried out. In order to provide a first set of responses, the Government has taken concrete measures to improve emergency relief for people. For example, mandatory consultation bodies will be established between ARS – regional health agencies –, SDIS and SAMU, to reduce the number of undue demands on services. The operating conditions of firefighters, particularly in the case of outpatients, will also be reviewed in order to mobilise only two firefighters, instead of three today, in the case of a simple assistance mission, and to reduce the waiting time in emergency reception services. We welcome these first steps in the right direction. In addition to the issue of funding, there is the issue of security. It is unbearable to witness the proliferation of violent acts against firefighters: the support of the public authorities must be reaffirmed once again and the response of exemplary justice. It should be recalled that today our firefighters are more protected than just a citizen, thanks to the addition of an aggravating circumstance in the event of an offence against them in the performance of their duties. Although this is only an additional tool and cannot stop the violence alone, we welcome the deployment of individual mobile cameras to prevent attacks. We will need to provide further answers to stop this ever-progressing violence. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] While the purpose of the bill we are considering today is to support the operation of departmental fire and rescue services and to enhance the profession of professional and voluntary firefighters, in particular in response to the difficulty of recruiting volunteer firefighters, it does not seem to us, however, at the level of expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u22	All you have to do is amend it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u23	It is therefore necessary, through a broader and deeper work, to reflect on how it is possible not only to make this function essential for life in society more attractive, but also to offer significantly more interesting possibilities for evolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u24	A text of the opposition is always rejected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u25	This bill addresses very interesting topics: the reduction of the employer's burden in order to encourage the involvement of employees as volunteer firefighters or the possibility of obtaining leave to remain for activities on the reserve. As for the desire to combat the violence perpetrated in many cities and neighbourhoods against professional and voluntary firefighters by part of the population, it is, I stressed, a fundamental issue. All of this is indeed in the right direction. I do not forget the question of the status of a voluntary firefighter, following the recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the basis of the 2003 European Directive on working time. Today, it raises concerns about the sustainability of the status of French volunteers, creating a set of obligations that would undermine voluntary engagement. The Ministry of the Interior has reaffirmed its commitment to preserve the model by ensuring that European case law does not penalize it: we support the Government in this process. The bill also addresses other issues: the voluntary firefighters' pension scheme through bonuses, exemptions for the allocation of social housing usually for reserved jobs in the public service, or the remainders of medical expenses, which are proposed to be borne by SDIS: we do not dispute the interest of all these subjects. While they clearly deserve to be put on the table, the proposed solutions are not always appropriate and their financial consequences are sufficiently assessed. We believe it would be preferable to take a more comprehensive view of all the issues and difficulties, in consultation with the Government and the working groups to be organized in the National Assembly and the Senate. Let us take the time to collectively build an answer that fully meets the needs of our firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u26	What do you know about all these subjects when you never sat in an SIDS?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u27	So we remain very reserved on this bill, although, I repeat, it has the merit of highlighting a number of real problems. However, the proposed solutions do not necessarily resolve them. We need to rethink more broadly the functioning of SIDS, the enhancement of the firefighter's profession and the status of volunteer firefighters. Is it acceptable, for example, to suffer a loss of pay when moving in grade within the institution? There is also the question of the over-contribution of pensions linked to the gradual integration of the fire premium. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] It is for all these reasons that we believe it is appropriate, rather than to vote for an incomplete and unbalanced text, to work together, with a referral to committee, for example, on a broader text which will enable us to meet all expectations and to create new vocations, particularly among our young people, towards this activity of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u28	There's an emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u29	They left you the dirty job, that's not nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u30	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As the former president of a departmental fire and rescue department, the Gironde department, I did not disappreciate by the fact that the bill establishes: the number of volunteer firefighters continues to decrease with a loss of more than 11,000 volunteers in a decade, in a context of a significant increase in the number of interventions. I therefore welcome the choice of the Republican Group to include a text on the subject on the agenda of our work. Civil security in France is based on an original model, the voluntary nature of which is one of the pillars: this model is rich in complementarity between professional and voluntary firefighters. When one is attached to this system, one cannot contest the need to value the commitment of firefighters. In the face of such a consensual text, the Socialist and Related Group would simply have wished to explore the idea of a legal guarantee for the benefit of the firefighters, based on a proposal by Patrick Kanner adopted by the Senate. In particular, it would allow the anonymity of firefighters who lodge complaints after having suffered violence, in order to prevent them from being exposed to the risk of reprisals on the part of the persons in question. Solutions will have to be found to secure the interventions of our firefighters, who are increasingly the object of unacceptable acts of violence. The financing of SIDS in general will also need to be considered, in particular taking into account the evolution of the population that has been blocked by law for the past 12 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u33	However, beyond this, the avenues you are exploring seem relevant, such as incentives to volunteer, whether financial or in terms of work organisation, improvements in the training of firefighters, new rights for firefighters in terms of social protection, rights to pension subsidies or easier access to housing. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Allied Group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u34	You are more open-minded than Members of the La République Group are on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u35	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] I'm coming, Secretary of State, about you. Once again, the majority on the move and the Government refuse the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u36	We're used to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u37	What debate? The aim is to improve the situation of the volunteer firefighters, who are the operational pillars of our SIDS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u38	The Government does not make a policy, it makes bad communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u39	[["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] The reasons given do not match the challenges and demonstrate once again the contempt of the Government and the majority when it comes to satisfying legitimate demands, this time from men and women who commit themselves to the service of others, often at the risk of their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u40	You despise the public interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u41	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u42	Civil security in France is based on nearly 250,000 firefighters, including approximately 196800 volunteers – 79% –, 40,000 professionals, 12,000 military – 5% – but also on 28,000 young firefighters – JSP – and 11,200 administrative and technical personnel. The volunteer firefighters thus form the basis of personal relief, which represents, out of 4600000 interventions, more than 3.9 million of the 4.6 million interventions. There are about 13,000 interventions a day, one every seven seconds, with more than 3.7 million victims being treated. Fifteen or twenty years ago, we counted almost 204,000 volunteer firefighters. The crisis of vocation and the decline in the duration of the commitment are long known facts, and for which successive governments have tried to find solutions. I want to make this clear: civil security, volunteer firefighters must not be an issue of political controversy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u43	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u44	In 17 years, I have had the opportunity to work with several governments and ministers of the interior, under the authority of several Presidents of the Republic, and I have always found a favourable response in favour of safeguarding the French model of civil security and, beyond the executive, on all benches of the National Assembly and the Senate. Here I would like to welcome the work of the "volunteer ambition" committee, set up at the initiative of Mrs Alliot-Marie in 2009, which was chaired by Luc Ferry. This committee, in which I participated, brought together all the actors in civil security, the Ministry of the Interior, the Directorate-General for Civil Security and Crisis Management – I am thinking of former prefect Alain Perret – and the national federation of firefighters of France – I am thinking of its excellent president, Richard Vignon –, trade unions, associations, firefighters, professors and academics, sociologists, elected officials, including parliamentarians and mayors. We have described the reasons for the crisis of commitment, which is a change in society linked to the rise in the level of training, which means that the young person leaves his village to go to study, but also to the problem of unemployment, or to family disintegration. The SPV is at the heart of societal change. This committee has made many proposals, including drafting a bill that has served as the basis for important legislative work, which lasted for one year. Initiator and editor of this important bill on VPS, I submitted this text for consideration by the Council of State, which carried out careful work for several months. This was the first time a Member of Parliament had submitted a bill for advice to the Council of State, following the 2008 constitutional review requested by President Nicolas Sarkozy. In view of the complexity of the subject, particularly in the legal sphere, I am well aware that France is a State governed by the rule of law which must respect the separation between public and private law and Community directives. Subsequently, the Ministry of the Interior, under the leadership of Manuel Valls, proposed "a national commitment" for twenty-five measures, which was signed in 2013 in Chambéry by the Minister of the Interior, the Assembly of the Departments of France – ADF –, the Association of Mayors of France – AMF – which I represented, the national federation of firefighters of France, the president of the national conference of fire and rescue services – CNIS – and Jean-Paul Bacquet, the president of the national council of the SPV, structure resulting from my law of 2011. On December 27, 2016, the Socialist MP Bacquet passed a law that complemented previous work by resolving the delicate problem of the provision of loyalty and recognition – PFR – because the system was in complete bankruptcy. Here I want to acknowledge the involvement of President Richard Vignon and President Eric Faure. The current President of the Republic said on 6 October 2017: "I will fiercely defend the model based on the volunteerism of firefighters, which is neither salaried nor voluntary". On 4 December 2017, Gérard Collomb, Minister of the Interior, entrusted to five qualified personalities a mission on volunteerism, which in March 2018 submitted a report with forty-one measures. If I recall all this, it is to show that, despite the efforts of successive governments in favour of the VPS, the crisis of commitment has unfortunately not been resolved. I would add that this dossier is part of a more global commitment to better equip civil security and, in this regard, the new civil security aircraft base – BASC – of Nîmes-Garons is a dossier that I strongly supported as rapporteur for the civil security budget. I must also mention the Antares project, as well as the advances in the aviation fleet, in relation to the needs for dash and the age of canadairs and trackers. At the time, seasoned pilots of canadairs and trackers wanted something better than the air-trailer, and it was complicated to find a solution with Jean-Jacques Urvoas, who was then president of the Law Commission. Finally, I would also like to acknowledge the involvement of André Chassaigne, who allowed the unanimous adoption of my law in 2011, and that of Senator Jean-Claude Gaudin, who had accepted a vote in accordance with the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u46	Today, we have before us a bill from the Republican Group, within the framework of a parliamentary niche. I very much welcome this initiative, which is part of a long line of proposals from various members of the House of Commons or senators: Julien Aubert, Éric Pauget, Sébastien Chenu, Jean-Louis Masson, Valérie Lacroute, Stéphane Viry, Bernard Perrut, Patrick Hetzel, Stéphane Testé, Yannick Favennec Becot, Senator Patrick Kanner and Catherine Troendle, and, of course, your servant. I signed this proposal from Arnaud Viala and his colleagues. But I make it very clear to Arnaud that, when a text is tabled, care must be taken to ensure that it does not damage what has been done before. I don't give lessons: I simply share my experience. Be careful not to mix professional firefighters with volunteer firefighters, between profession and commitment: in committee, we corrected the title of this bill, which could lead to confusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u47	We agreed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u48	We won't propose you to co-sign a bill any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u49	Also be careful not to reopen a debate that took place in 2010 and 2011 on the legal definition of the SPV: nine hours of work within the Conseil d'État, and several days of preparation with the employees of the Conseil d'État to arrive, after difficult discussions, at a definition that allowed, in the sense of French positive law, to remove the SPV both from the status of the civil service and also from the Labour Code. The Conseil d'État agreed to revert to its 1993 opinion, which called the SPV an occasional public service employee, thus linking it to the status of the civil service, by making it an employee. I would like to quote article 1 of my law, now article L723-5 of the Code of Homeland Security: "The activity of a volunteer firefighter, which is based on volunteerism and volunteerism, is not carried out in a professional capacity but under conditions peculiar to him. » That is why this definition, torn from a long struggle, allowed France to preserve volunteerism among firefighters. We already knew at the time that it would not stand up to the 2003 Community Directive, which some people are now discovering. But it was a strong choice of the French government and Parliament, both of the National Assembly and of the Senate, with the help of the Council of State. Also, it was not my surprise to see an amendment by my friend Dino Cinieri which tended to revert to the notion of occasional collaborator of the public service, an amendment which Arnaud Viala had accepted, and which was rejected by the committee, because its adoption would have led to the SPV being brought closer to the status of the public service. Today, and I firmly say it, everything that can lead to weakening the sui generis status of the French SPV is to be proscribed. The entire doctrine at the time welcomed the drafting of article 1 and, still today, despite the Matzak decision, the doctrine recalls the careful work carried out during the drafting of the 2011 law. I repeat to my colleagues, on such a complex subject, the Council of State must be consulted in advance, and above all the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Budget must be assured of the technical, legal and financial feasibility of a particular measure. I can understand that your bill serves as a guide for the Government, the Directorate-General for Civil Security and Risk Management, the Parliament and even the trade unions, as well as the European Commission. I am thinking in particular of various proposals, such as the reduction of employers' burdens, the authorisations for absence, the contributions of joint bodies for training, access to reserved jobs, the improvement of social security coverage, the modification of retirement quarters, access to social housing and student placements. I am also thinking of the broader measures on the offence of contempt, the single number, the SDIS investment support credits. We could also have talked about the feminization of civic service, national promotion campaigns, national service, the provision of equipment for rural areas – DETR –, reservists, pre-acquis and training, the governance of SIDS. All this goes in the right direction, but to be useful, I repeat, such measures must be legally, financially and technically plausible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u50	He's a very good spokesman for the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u51	We are going to open a debate which, I hope, will allow a convergence of views, especially since today has been set up a study group dedicated to the SPVs, which I will chair with Fabien Matras, Member of Parliament for the Var, former SPV, and I call on all those who are passionate about coming together to develop a work programme that will help halt the decline in the vocations of SPV.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u52	We must break with the government's technocratic vision!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u53	There's a new group in the majority! The masked walkers are unmasked!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u54	I would also like to say to the national fire brigade of France and its new president, Grégory Allion, that we are at his disposal to analyse and evaluate any useful measures, particularly at Community level. There is no point in preempting a subject that receives the consent of all political groups. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We're at a crossroads. It is necessary to invent a doctrine that may even go so far as to define a legal body integrating voluntary and voluntary associations, in order to counteract the extensive conception of the concept of worker in the community sense of the term. All the texts voted on on the SPV ten years ago were unanimous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u55	What a betrayal! It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on the benches of the LaREM group]] You have to meditate on this and go on like this: the right and the left love firefighters!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u57	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u58	[[Applause on many benches]] I will go even further than the previous speaker: it is not the left and the right who love firefighters, it is the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u59	At last a good speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u60	They love them because they obviously carry out a mission of general interest – it comes to mind. I'm not saying that to argue,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u61	It doesn't look like you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u62	...but I say it because it seems more essential to me than to talk about the right and the left. This text is interesting because it allows the debate on departmental fire and rescue services to continue, whether it be professional firefighters or volunteer firefighters. In my turn, I want to pay tribute to them, because they have a difficult job: they are often on the last line, those who stay when there is no one, those who are called when all the others have not answered or arrived. The text does not mention the general decline in public services, which results in an increase in the activity of professional and voluntary firefighters. The trade unions, in particular, have told me that the groupings of the UAS and the SMURs have, in some cases, resulted in such an increase in travel times that the firefighters were faster and had to take on a role previously assigned to their colleagues in the UAS or the SMUR. The same goes for the police. You said earlier, Secretary of State, that there were protocols. In fact, there is something for everything and, in theory, everything is planned and everything is going well, but that is not the question: beyond the protocols, when incidents, fights or rixes occur, when there are wounded and the firefighters have to intervene, they are, in almost all cases, faster than the police and thus arrive first. As we no longer have local police – or so few – the firefighters are on the front line and the police arrive after the battle. In order to strengthen the criminal justice component in the face of insecurity and violence against firefighters, it is already too late: we have already failed and we are already in a situation that should not have been. We will not solve the problem by simply taking these measures. Returning to the central issue of volunteerism, it is rarely mentioned that "forced volunteerism" is known to some professional firefighters who are asked to be volunteer firefighters at the same time in order to be able to manage the burden plan and ensure the continuity of the public service. In many departments, this is the case for half of the professional firefighters. This makes the Matzak judgment and European regulation clearly inapplicable – we are no longer at all in the nails, and I understand that we do not want and cannot apply them. However, this regulation could have an interest in professional firefighters – and for them alone – because we are not going to complain that workers have fundamental rights, such as rest periods. It is therefore rather for firefighters who are only voluntary that the Matzak judgment and the Workers' Directive are problematic. I will not turn around the pot, because it seems to me that this question is unanimous on all our benches: we must renegotiate these provisions and provide for a special status for volunteer firefighters. However, this does not exhaust the subject. If you think you've solved the problem of volunteering by just doing this, you'll stick your finger in the eye. The question will arise in particular, as I have pointed out in committee, in operations such as white plans. Indeed, most volunteer firefighters who are not at the same time professional firefighters are often from the medical profession, ambulances or caregivers, who are precisely mobilized under the white plan: will they then first be ambulance attendants, or volunteer firefighters? If the different categories overlap, do we have the necessary staff? It will therefore be necessary to work to strengthen volunteerism – and, in reality, to increase the number of professional firefighters. You can't avoid that question. However, as far as voluntary firefighters are concerned, not all the elements of the Workers Directive should be discarded, particularly in the field of social protection. I have been told of many cases of injured volunteers during their volunteer hours and, while there are many mechanisms of compensation and care, no link is foreseen when these injuries prevent them from performing their daily work, so that they only have to manage – a fortiori if they are temporary workers that their injuries prevent them from performing their temporary duties: that tchi, walou! They only have their eyes to cry. This is a point on which progress could be made, which would also make it easier to consider the option of becoming a volunteer firefighter. There is therefore a lack of professional firefighters and, if I judge by the way in which I have been presented with this situation, this is a mystery, because the number of positions open nationally for recruitment does not seem to correspond to the needs expressed by all departments. There's a problem! The departments request 100, 200 or 300 firefighters and it should therefore be possible, by adding these figures, to recruit a corresponding number of professional firefighters. However, this is never the case, and it is common practice for trade union organizations to complain that departments that have requested the recruitment of 100 firefighters could only recruit 70 or 60 of them. There's a little riddle here, which will have to be solved. I understand that we will not be able to discuss the articles of the text or the amendments. However, I would like to stress three of these amendments. The first, which would have been discussed at the beginning of the text, follows the discussion we had in committee about the exemption from social security contributions provided for in the bill for companies employing a voluntary firefighter. I recalled at that time that social contributions were being used for something and there was a debate as to whether the proposed measure was intended to compensate for the company's lack due to the fact that one of its employees was going to volunteer. Then we said it wasn't really to compensate, but a little anyway... I suggest you be clearer! We have tabled a deletion amendment, which I have maintained, but also this amendment to the proposal to introduce a corporate tax credit. It seems to us much more logical to grant such a credit, in proportion to the number of hours of volunteer work done by the employee, assuming that this is some form of compensation for the company that hired a volunteer firefighter. In this way, social contributions are no longer charged. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I give this suggestion to the debate. Perhaps it will be useful when we have to consider a larger text on these issues. I understand that the ideas must come from the majority in order to be considered useful – and that is not a novelty of this legislature. And it's obviously not exclusive to Republicans! Another amendment was intended to facilitate access to competitions for volunteer firefighters, rather than opening them reserved jobs. Indeed, even if we know that, in just two months' time, the public service competition will no longer serve much, since everyone can be recruited as a contract – but that's another story, which will soon happen – our philosophy of the organization of the public service made us consider this mechanism more just and judicious. Finally, we had tabled an amendment on the financing of services, and in particular on transparency in the taxation of insurance agreements. It would seem that once again we do not have the algorithm linking the amount of the tax charged and the final breakdown. There's something strange about this, like a grey area in the equation. Perhaps it would be time to ensure transparency on this point, and it is up to you, Mr. Secretary of State, because it does not even require a piece of legislation. We were asking for a report and I hope that we will be able to find out more, in order to be informed about the following discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u63	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u64	Prevention and assessment of civil security risks, preparation of safeguard measures and organisation of relief measures, protection of persons, property and the environment, emergency relief to persons affected by accidents, disasters or disasters and their evacuation: these are the tasks carried out by the SIDS within the framework of the powers conferred on them by Article L. 1424-1 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, missions which I know well, for having been president of SIDS. I would like to express my full admiration for these men and women whose dedication and commitment are no longer to be demonstrated, and I respectfully salute those who are present in the gallery this afternoon. The reminder of these missions may seem annoyance, but it seemed important to me, both to remind us of its scope and to reaffirm that the role of SIDS must never be trivialised, bears witness to the increase in the number of their annual interventions, from 3456000 in 2004 to 4605000 at the end of 2017. This sharp increase comes in a difficult context of declining volunteerism, with 195800 volunteer firefighters at the end of 2017. How, with a loss of more than 11,000 volunteers over this period, can our relief services cope with such an increase in activity, especially in rural areas, where 80% of the interventions are carried out by volunteer firefighters, compared with 50% at national level? This is one of the special features of rural SIDS, which operate through volunteerism and are based on efficient territorial networking. Indeed, in these territories, the missions of proximity to SIDS, including protection, fire defence and intervention with people, cannot be carried out without a dense network of rescue and first-aid centres, now composed exclusively of volunteer firefighters. One of the difficulties of these centres is the renewal of volunteers. This difficulty may be due, as you say in your report, to the rise of individualism, to demographic movements, to the strengthening of professional constraints or to the départementisation of SIDS, but I note that in a rural department like mine – the Allier – which suffers all these phenomena, the work carried out in the SIDS over the past few years by the departmental union of firefighters, in connection with the command, has helped to reverse the trend. This was done thanks to a work to raise awareness of volunteering among the general public, carried out in particular by participating in numerous events with a vehicle dedicated to the promotion; an effort to recruit young firefighters and to feminize; an increased training effort, with the recent opening of a departmental fire and rescue training centre; a pedagogical approach to businesses and communities, in order to promote and secure volunteering through the signing of agreements, but also to require the consent of employers; Finally, thanks to a change in the image of the firefighter, in order to encourage volunteering in general, and in particular its feminization. While so-called perilous missions, such as firefighting, still contribute to maintaining a certain image of the firefighter rooted in society, they represent only 4% of interventions – even though these interventions last longer and involve more personnel – while 84% of SIDS interventions now involve victim assistance and personal assistance. In Allier, these combined efforts have led to a 10 per cent increase in the number of women in five years and have encouraged the feminization of volunteer firefighters, with now 24 per cent women, compared with 17 per cent at the national level. It would also be interesting to carry out further reflections with a view to reducing the duration of interventions, which may be a barrier to voluntary engagement and availability, particularly for those working in companies. In some situations, for example, instead of systematically transporting victims or injured persons to emergencies, why not consider transfers to local hospitals equipped with medical beds and capable of treating certain non-vital emergencies? The time saved would be as much as the firefighters could devote to other missions or would allow volunteers to return to their workplace more quickly. In this spirit, we can look for other avenues. However, this debate cannot take place without addressing the question of financial resources. Funded mainly, if not exclusively, by local authorities – departments and communes – it can be seen that the agreements currently signed between departments and SIDS are on a constant average, or even, in some departments, with decreasing allocations. We cannot provide a long-term, high-performance rescue service with a sword of Damocles above our head! Today, the decline in allocations to municipalities and departments can directly affect the services to be rendered by SIDS. We cannot continue to want to undermine the resources made available to relief workers in our territories at a time when they are facing a sharp increase in their operational activity and the need to invest, in particular for the modernisation of equipment – be it structures and real estate, with a view, for example, to adapting them to the mix, or the means of intervention. In short, we can't play with the means of security. We must take care of our firefighters by carrying out public policies that give them the means to carry out their activities, but which are also aimed at countering the decline in the numbers of volunteer firefighters, indispensable for the protection of territories, particularly rural ones. It is possible: the Allier example shows that, thanks to proactive and responsive policies, recruitment can be achieved, in particular by applying a policy of recruitment of women in line with the activities of SIDS. This bill does not address all these issues, but it has the merit of valuing the commitment of volunteer and professional firefighters through concrete measures. Some are urgent. I am thinking in particular of the protection of our firefighters, and of all volunteers, of the application of the 2003 European Directive on working time. But more will be needed to respond to an increasingly critical situation. Could the minimum service be a sufficient first step? I am also thinking of the absolute need to legislate as quickly as possible to ensure the protection of firefighters, who are increasingly assaulted in the performance of their duties and, if necessary, to allow them to file complaints anonymously. The Government and the majority must immediately respond to SIDS and all firefighters. Yes, we must respond without delay to the demands of the inter-union of the professional firefighters and of the personnel of the administrative, technical and specialized branches of the fire and rescue services, which, in a communiqué published on 14 March last, called for alarm about the over-burdened budgets, the massive increase in interventions, the increasingly difficult conditions of exercise and the sharp decrease in the number of personnel. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Government and the majority are constantly telling us that they are dealing with everything, as was again the case in committee last week. We would like to believe them, but for this, we would still have to have an overview of the measures implemented and the actions undertaken by the Government in the framework of the action plan for a new impetus of volunteerism, announced by Gérard Collomb, then Minister of the Interior, on 29 September 2018 in Bourg-en-Bresse in front of the 125th national congress of firefighters. Firefighters don't need agreed language. There is an urgent need to act, beyond partisan positions, in the common interest, as well as the commitment of firefighters. We therefore broadly support this bill and regret once again the negative position of the majority and the Government. A little bit of a wink to my dear colleagues in the Republicans Group, who are very motivated to reduce public spending: pay attention! SIDS budgets are also public expenditure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u65	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u66	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u67	What would our territories be without the network of rescue centres? They are not only the first link in the daily security of our fellow citizens, but also the heart that is beating in each of our territories, in our cities and in our countryside. They bring together women and men with different paths but united by the same goal: to ensure our safety. They embody the values of the Republic at the level of our territories. Our firefighters, whether professional or voluntary, hold a special place in the hearts of the French. Their courage and dedication are examples for a society that often loses its bearings. For them we have admiration, consideration and even affection. But their commitment is more and more difficult to live, more and more risky, so that today, firefighters are divided between passion and disappointment. Yet, for several years, many Members of Parliament, including the elected members of the Libertés et territoires group and Pierre Morel -À- L'Huissier, have warned the various governments about the need to take better account of the situation of firefighters, to better support them, to enhance their profession and their commitment. To this end, several Members of our group have already tabled legislative proposals. This has been my case, in particular, with a text on valuing the situation and the functions of professional and volunteer firefighters, or with another aimed at improving the retirement of volunteer firefighters. The investment and determination to act for our firefighters is linked to our local anchoring and our knowledge of the organization of relief services in our territories. It is because we are at their side, on the ground, and not only at the time of the feasts of the Holy Barbe, that we know their difficulties. These difficulties they encounter in their professional and voluntary lives, with sometimes negative consequences for their privacy. This is probably why, for example, the number of volunteer firefighters has declined significantly in recent years. Yet these women and men, those professionals who dedicate their lives to "save or perish", but also those volunteers who engage in parallel with their profession or their studies, have the help of the person chevillé to the body and heart. But today, that is no longer enough! That is why this new proposal for a law on volunteer and professional firefighters is of course of great interest to us. That being so, as we have had the opportunity to tell you in committee, there are a number of points that are of concern to us. First of all, this text deals in the same way with the occupation of firefighter and voluntary engagement, whereas it is not the same status. Similarly, this bill is similar to a disparate text composed of sometimes imprecise, incomplete and unfunded provisions. The Libertés et territoires Group also wishes to warn you of the risk of denaturing the voluntary commitment and disrupting the proper functioning of the services of professional firefighters that your proposal for a law might create. Of course, your text is rooted in your desire to bring concrete solutions to the problems facing firefighters, but it is not necessarily a good idea to do so. That is why we hope that your interesting proposal to allow an internship in a rescue centre, as part of the second cycle of medical studies, will not be associated with the automatic acquisition of the status of a volunteer firefighter with the allocation of the related benefits. In fact, voluntary engagement is demanding; It is also necessary to retain its voluntary character. Obtaining the status of a volunteer firefighter must be the result of an individual approach, unique to each student, outside the scope of his or her studies. Similarly, voluntary firefighters' access to reserved public service jobs should only be possible after a number of years of engagement. This possibility already open to volunteer firefighters who are victims of an accident or illness is entirely legitimate, but its extension to the valid must be framed in order to maintain the spirit of volunteerism and to avoid it being seen as a mere parallel route to the public service. Moreover, what about the future of Article 6 on the improvement of retirement quarters – an attractive a priori proposal – with the future reform of pensions and the modification of the rules for calculating schemes? As I was able to explain to you at the beginning of my remarks, I had tabled a bill to that effect myself, but after talking with Jean-Paul Delevoye, we agreed that we had to wait for this reform to see how the firefighters' engagement could be re-aligned through their retirement. In addition, you are proposing to facilitate access to social housing in the vicinity of rescue centres by ensuring that firefighters are no longer subject to resource ceilings in tense areas. However, I do not think this measure is entirely feasible, as there is already an important list of priority groups in the allocation of social housing. It is not desirable to extend this list indefinitely, otherwise it will be rendered meaningless.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u68	Yes! This may be a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u69	Instead, we must encourage the conventional aspect by signing, for example, as my colleague and former minister Sylvia Pinel, an agreement between the Association des mayores de France – AMF – and the fire brigade, so that the status of firefighter can be taken into account when awarding commissions. These are the few measures on which our group wishes to draw your attention and which deserve a real debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have the same will to act for our firefighters: so we must legislate with caution and responsibility. Of course, we welcome several of your provisions, such as the one to combat verbal violence against firefighters, because insults are unacceptable and complicate the mission of the rescue services. We also support the creation of a single emergency number. I take this rostrum to draw your attention, Secretary of State, to the protracted conflict for the Wallis-et-Futuna firefighters. Together with my colleague Sylvain Brial, we want you to find solutions, in particular to reclassify those men who no longer have the physical conditions necessary for their engagement. I would also like to return to the 2003 European directive on working time, which has been discussed earlier by a number of our colleagues. You are proposing the inclusion of the words "commitment" and "altruistic and generous" in the code of internal security, but, as you know, this will not be enough to preserve our voluntary firefighters from the application of this directive. With the position of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is the long-term sustainability of our relief system that is currently pending. A few weeks before the European elections, the European authorities' commitment to the specific character of volunteer firefighters through the directive would be a great signal to all our citizens. For this reason, the Libertés et territoires group associated itself in November 2018 with a motion addressed by the National Assembly to Jean-Claude Juncker in order to question him about the need to preserve this French exception. Our group, which is deeply European, fears that if the European Union remains deaf to this request, this will only increase the French's distrust of the European project. The objective of the directive, which aims to guarantee to all workers in the European Union a base of harmonised and protective common rights, must be achieved, but not by reducing to ashes our civil safety model, which is the strength of our territorial network of fire and rescue services. This bill has the merit of asking real questions about the evolution of the status of our firefighters and the need to quickly provide concrete answers. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group would have liked this text to be the subject of a genuine debate on the substance of the text and to make a final decision. Unfortunately, this will not be the case and we deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u70	It's up to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u71	Vote with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u72	Mr Fabien Matras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u73	First of all, I would like to welcome the presence of firefighters today. A few years ago, I would certainly have been with them as a volunteer firefighter. I have no doubt that there will soon be more of them in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u74	Don't try to catch up, you won't make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u75	We must now take a decision on a text that has been debated at length in committee. I would like us to look at it from the point of view of need and necessity. Essential to the safety and continuity of firefighters' interventions, the measures contained in this bill are aimed at combating the intolerable increase in attacks during interventions or at developing volunteerism. The text also addresses topical issues such as the pension scheme by way of subsidies or the rest of the medical costs for accidents at work. On pensions, I would remind you that the majority are in favour of taking volunteerism into account in the future pension system, in addition to the benefit of loyalty and recognition. Volunteering is one of the cornerstones of our civil security model, with continued growth in interventions in areas where local public services are sometimes in sharp decline. Volunteering and, more generally, citizen engagement become the pillars of a more resilient and committed society. It is therefore necessary to support volunteerism, which is losing momentum, but the response must be sustainable, comprehensive and approached in a spirit of concerted action. In this regard, this bill deals incompletely with a number of issues that have been taken over by the mission to revive volunteerism, in which I participated with our colleague Senator Catherine Troendlé, a member of the Republicans Group, and the former president of the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-pômeurs de France, Éric Faure, who is present in the gallery of our House of Commons and whom I salute. Other problems have unfortunately been obscured. If measures to promote the employment of firefighters are interesting, they are incomplete or incomplete. The reduction of employers' burdens is certainly an opportunity, but, in the absence of a precise assessment of the financial impact of this measure and a more detailed approach to its concrete effects, balanced with the administrative constraints it represents, I fear that we do not have enough setbacks to know its gain for an entrepreneur. The issue of availability is addressed only from the perspective of scheduled absences, which are not a major issue for firefighters. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Article 3 on the training of volunteer firefighters is equally unconvincing. It is intended to allow companies to request that their contributions to the joint bodies be paid directly to SIDS. Other solutions would have been more effective. In addition, training problems are not limited to this difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u76	Amend the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u77	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Too many amendments should have been tabled to make this bill convincing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u78	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u79	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u80	You're the service comic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u81	A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u82	The question of the single emergency number is important, but it would be premature to say here that interministerial work is under way, at the request of the President of the Republic, and that we can wait for the position of the professionals concerned before embarking on this. On the other hand, the proposed measures do not take into account volunteers employed by the communities, although their situation deserves to be addressed. Another difficulty: a recent report by the Court of Auditors draws our attention to the situation of persons with dual qualifications as professional firefighter and volunteer firefighter. Unfortunately, this issue is not discussed. However, I would like to commend the voluntarism of our colleagues in the Republican Group and the work of the rapporteur, who allow us to debate again the subject of firefighters in this House. My colleagues will come back to what we have done for firefighters since our election. It is a subject that engages us collectively and concerns us all on these benches. We all want to go much further. As my colleague Pierre Morel-À-L'Huissier recalled, this subject has always been unanimous,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u83	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u84	...but the unanimity of the vote implies that all parliamentary groups are involved in the construction of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u85	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] What the majority is used to doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u86	I have been criticized for talking a lot about the study group set up on this issue, but this is precisely where we can all debate, all political trends together, and find together the means to support volunteerism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u87	Don't try to catch up with the branches!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u88	I'm not trying to catch up with the branches: I'm just answering you. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Unfortunately, consultation has not been extended to all members of our Assembly. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u89	What a success!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u90	Calm the crowd down!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u91	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u92	I would like to pay tribute to our 248,000 firefighters, both professional and voluntary, especially those who are in the gallery today. These fire fighters, as the French like to call them, have long since become rescuers of all situations, intervening in the event of traffic accidents, fire or forest fires, of course, but also in the event of industrial risk or emergency plan. The other side of the coin is that they tend to be misused. In 2018, one out of five firefighters in Paris was unwarranted, not giving rise to any relief action on the part of the responders. Requested at all times, firefighters respond present and chain guards to help others, very often endangering their lives, to the detriment of their personal and family lives. For their courage and dedication, national representation must be grateful to them. Through the bill that we have to examine today, our colleague Arnaud Viala and the Group of the Republicans are once again debating the major issue of valuing fire and rescue services. Last week, thanks to the simplified examination procedure, we adopted unanimously and without debate the Senate bill on the representation of administrative and technical staff on the boards of directors of the departmental fire and rescue services. We thus met a strong and recurring demand for these personnel, which are essential to the functioning of SIDS. The intention to value firefighters, both professional and voluntary, in the exercise of their duties in the service of the common good, we all share it, as Pierre Morel -À- L'Huissier, who knows this case perfectly, has so well recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u93	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u94	Please, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u95	Aren't the leg rings over soon?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u96	Following the presentation of the mission's report on the volunteerism of firefighters, on 23 May 2018, to Gérard Collomb, then Minister of the Interior, by our colleague Fabien Matras and three other rapporteurs, a comprehensive consultation is under way in order to rethink the French model of civil security; it will result in precise and effective measures. Pending the outcome of this reflection, the Government is already implementing concrete measures. I would like to remind you that, as part of the 2019 Finance Bill, we voted for a civil security budget up by € 7.4 million. In addition, in the face of the resurgence of large-scale forest fires, the Government announced the delivery of the first Dash multi-role aircraft, a high-performance fire-fighting equipment, on 1 September 2019. Five more aircraft will follow. We will continue the renewal of the air fleet, with a total budget of €380 million. The principle of free motorway tolls for our emergency services is unanimous in our ranks. We are all waiting for this gesture to be accepted by the motorway concession companies. I know, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are following this file closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u97	The law has already been passed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u98	Make it apply!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u99	We intend to enforce it. In addition, interior minister Christophe Castaner launched a few days ago an approach to prevent and combat attacks against firefighters. In fact, victims sometimes turn into aggressors – it is even, alas, a sharp increase. This phenomenon is the subject of the Minister's full attention, who last Friday asked the security staffs to update the territorial diagnoses before the end of April. This ministerial instruction complements the circular arrangement established on 13 March. Be aware that firefighters now enjoy a privileged reception within police stations and gendarmerie brigades in order to facilitate the filing of complaints when they are subjected to aggression during an intervention. What is more normal for them to be given greater protection in the event of aggression, since the very heart of their mission is to protect our fellow citizens? In the near future, firefighters will be able to experiment with the use of pedestrian cameras, as well as police and gendarmes, in the event of an incident likely to endanger their physical integrity. I understand, Mr Secretary of State, that the implementing decree is being finalized and is currently subject to the opinion of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, CNIL. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, we must salute the women who engage in a very masculine environment. Unfortunately, Mr. Viala, your bill is not about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u100	Diversion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u101	The feminization of SIDS is an objective of the action plan for volunteer firefighters 2019-2021, which provides for simple measures such as changing rooms to allow separate clothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u102	It's not about the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u103	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Jacob, don't look up to the sky when you talk about the feminization of SIDS!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is free to express his or her opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u105	He's trying to stigmatize us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u106	[[Same movements]] I'm not stigmatizing anyone, Mr. Jacob, you're calling me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, we will wait for calm to return... You have the floor, Mr Rudigoz, and you alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for bringing a little peace of mind back to this House. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, the situation of volunteer and professional firefighters is a major concern of the majority and the Government. We will come back soon, in the Committee on Laws and in this House, with strong and concrete new proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u109	You've got nothing to offer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u110	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u111	I would like to begin by commending the remarkable and courageous mission of our firefighters who, every day, are at the service of the French, and whose beautiful motto " courage and dedication" inspires respect. They represent an ideal of commitment for society as a whole, especially for our youth. Of course, I greet those who are present in the rostrums of our House. It should also be noted that almost 80% of our firefighters are volunteers. In rural areas, the latter are essential since they carry out 80 per cent of the relief operations. However, departmental fire and rescue services have difficulty recruiting volunteers: between 2004 and 2017, their number increased from 207583 to 195800. This problem can all the less be taken lightly as the number of interventions continues to increase: in 2017, SIDS achieved 4.6 million interventions, 2.4% more than the previous year. Because we cannot resolve these difficulties, this bill is more than welcome. It brings concrete solutions to facilitate the work of our firefighters. I am thinking of the various social measures that are proposed, but also of the proposal to open up to medical students the possibility of doing an internship within an SIDS. This should undoubtedly lead to new commitments, new vocations. I have tabled an amendment to extend this possibility to all students in the health sector as well as to nursing students, but this amendment has unfortunately been declared inadmissible, which is quite incomprehensible. We could go further to make it easier for SIDS to carry out their missions. In particular, I propose to exempt them from the internal consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE – and to ensure that they benefit as soon as possible from the free tolls, which was voted on 18 months ago. On the ICTPE, the provision proposed by Arnaud Viala and his colleagues in the group Republicans are a common-sense measure, with fuel and energy-related taxes increasing with the number of interventions. The exemption of ICTPE in favour of SIDS would reduce the operating costs of departmental councils subject to high budgetary pressures, due in particular to the increase in the number of social beneficiaries. The unacceptable increase in violence against firefighters also calls for further action. A report by the National Observatoire de la délinquence et des résponses pénals indicates that the number of attacks suffered during interventions increased by 23% in 2017. These attacks resulted in 955 days of work stoppage. In some neighbourhoods, which are described by euphemism as "sensitive", firefighters face real guets-apens. Rural areas themselves are not spared by such violence. Many firefighters denounce the sense of impunity used by the perpetrators of these acts. It is against this feeling that I proposed to you to fight through two amendments aimed at establishing minimum penalties for attacks against firefighters, gendarmes and police officers. Unfortunately, these amendments have once again been considered inadmissible, like those tabled on the same subject by Mr Eric Ciotti. It is all the more a pity that our justice needs to be more dissuasive and firmer. We always hear about zero tolerance, but what about the facts? In conclusion, I can only regret the attitude of the majority on a subject which should, however, reach consensus. As usual, the La République en marche group engaged in a real sap work in committee, rejecting all the articles of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u112	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u113	That's not true! You'll see what we're going to propose!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u114	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] It's so rude! It is true that this requires less work than proposing improvements. The pretext used by the majority to justify its childish attitude is particularly misleading: you recognize the importance of the subject that we are dealing with today, but you consider this bill premature because, you say, there is an ongoing dialogue. As by chance, a group of studies on volunteer firefighters has just emerged – a nice excuse to push back a text that does not come from the majority! While public services continue to decline in the countryside, SIDS are often one of the last community services and the last bulwark against medical desertification. There is an urgent need to facilitate the work of those who risk their lives every day to save the lives of others. That is why I will support this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, let me pay tribute to the SIDS de l'Hérault, which carries out more than 80000 interventions a year, i.e. one intervention every seven minutes, and especially the firefighters of Corneilhan, Cazouls-lès-Béziers, Sérignan, Valras and of course Béziers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u115	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u116	Since the beginning of the current legislature, the majority has begun work on topics related to professional and voluntary firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u117	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u118	First of all, let me express, on behalf of all the members of our Assembly, my gratitude and appreciation for the daily work carried out by the staff of the SIDS, the departmental councils and the fire brigades involved. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the firefighters present in the stands, in particular Mr. Éric Faure, with whom we have worked in the context of the mission to revive volunteerism. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. The Republicans, the parliamentary and governmental work in progress and those carried out since the beginning of this legislature, in which you participated...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u119	But you're not doing anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u120	...or, at least, in which your fellow senators participated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u121	You're doing everything with reports!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u122	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You have quoted the work of Members of the Republican Group. I also assure you that we are a number of parliamentarians who have initiated broad consultation in our departments. For my part, I hired her in the Lot. At the time, it could have also allowed me to table a bill on the status of firefighter. But, unlike you, I preferred to hand over my proposals to the mission for the revival of volunteerism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u123	Nice group discipline!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u124	For me, it is the general interest that must prevail. As a reminder, the total number of firefighters at the end of 2017 was 248,000; only half are volunteer firefighters and 79% are doing their mission in rural areas. I take this opportunity to highlight the commitment of some 30,000 women firefighters, one in six firefighters. We still have many issues to deal with regarding the feminization of these professions – this is an aspect that you do not address in your bill. On 23 May 2018, the members of the mission for the revival of volunteering submitted a report to Mr Gérard Collomb, then Minister of the Interior. I would like to highlight here the dedication and commitment of our colleague Fabien Matras and the other members of the mission – I am thinking in particular of Catherine Troendlé, a member of the Senate Republicans Group, whom I particularly appreciate because of her commitment to the feminization of firefighters. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Forty-two proposals emerged from this work of consultation between parliamentarians, local elected representatives and the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-fireurs de France. You are taking part in your bill. You thus show how discreetly you greet the usefulness of reflection, even if, as usual, you table bills to be able to tap on the majority and the Government. Of these forty-two proposals, thirty-seven have been included in the Action Plan for Volunteerism...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u125	Come in, Mr. President! You can't let such things be said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u126	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u127	[[Persistent exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] ... that we have started to decline since the beginning of 2019 in order to inspire vocations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u128	Mr. President, a little impartiality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u129	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u130	[[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] ... to recruit, retain and value the commitment of firefighters...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u131	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect the speaker in the rostrum,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u132	She doesn't respect us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u133	...who enjoys full freedom of speech. You know, like me, that freedom of expression is complete in this House. I therefore ask you to allow Mrs Tiegna to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u134	I was talking about measures to secure the conditions for intervention, to speed up integration and to simplify the engagement process, which take account of individual competences. I see this bill as a late but laudable initiative by the Republican Group, which shows our assembly's unanimous commitment to the dedication of firefighters throughout the country. This must complement the work that has been under way for many months, which has already led to progress and which we must continue to do. Parliamentary work on firefighters must bring us together rather than divide us: it must not be a pretext for political manoeuvres or for isolated work. As the adage says, we must "play together" and continue to consult with the Ministry of the Interior, the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-fireurs de France and the actors on the ground, in the continuity of the mission for the revival of volunteerism. As part of the trans-party study group that we have just created and in which you can participate, you will have the opportunity to discuss these issues with us. I would remind you that this is an unprecedented initiative in the National Assembly. Citizen and altruistic commitment is a fundamental element of our social pact. It is in order to preserve the dynamism of our territories with regard to the security of goods and people that we must continue to strive for the excellence of care. It is in this sense that firefighters are fully integrated into the implementation of the universal national service. We have tabled a motion to refer the matter back to committee on the grounds that the work and negotiations undertaken must be able to continue, with your lasting and reliable support, thereby promoting the responsible and ambitious work that we owe to our firefighters,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u135	Please conclude, Mrs. Tiegna.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... without preempting the work currently being carried out by the National Council of Volunteer Firefighters on the action plan for volunteer firefighters 2019-2021. Long live the rescue and firefighting forces!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u137	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u138	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I shall begin with a few remarks on the substance. Secretary of State, we are just a few minutes from the vote on a motion to refer to committee; Therefore, there will be no discussion of the sections of the proposed legislation. Beyond this lack of debate on the articles, organised by yourself and above all by the majority, you have not provided any answers to the questions asked. If your speech, which I greet with a calm tone, unlike those of some elected representatives of the majority or associated groups, takes note of the findings, it does not specify the solutions that you intend to bring about. That is why we are here. The firefighters have come to the stands of our Chamber to try to understand what you are preparing... if so much so that you are actually preparing something! [[Mr. Fabien Di Filippo applauds]] We wish to see the recognition and encouragement of volunteerism, especially among younger generations. You take note of this and refer us to the current mission, but you do not provide any solution. I understand that if there is to be a reduction in burdens for companies that let their employees go to be volunteer firefighters, we must provide for this in the budget, but we are looking at a bill here. What is preventing us from adopting this provision, which will correct the current budget, and from repeating the operation in the context of the next finance bill in order to sustain the mechanism? [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] The same applies to the treatment of violence against firefighters and law enforcement officials. Given the context in which France finds itself today, what is preventing us from adopting this provision this afternoon, within the framework of this bill, and from continuing it in a framework text to come? What will you say to the firefighters who will be attacked before the adoption of your framework text?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u140	As far as the European directive on working time is concerned, as I said earlier, we want to support the Government in its efforts. Moreover, these steps are extremely difficult, since this 2003 directive was proposed by France – it is no more or less a matter of translating the introduction of 35 hours in France into European law. Of course, we understand that we're uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u141	Thank you Martine Aubry!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u142	We want to give weight to the position that France will take, which will require a derogatory method or the writing of a new directive, as you sometimes seem to suspect. But you're not telling us anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u143	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u144	On this central question, I have the feeling that since Gérard Collomb's departure, who had made a few affirmative statements, nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u145	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u146	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are patiently waiting for a possible judgment by a court of justice to put an abrupt end to the model of civil security that guarantees the serenity and security of our citizens everywhere in France. What prevents us from voting today on a provision that will support you in your future negotiations with the European Commission, even if it falls within the scope of regulation? We don't understand. I come to some formal remarks. Apart from your speech, Secretary of State, the remarks we have just heard in the general debate show an absolutely unimaginable disrespect for parliamentary work. I am not at all accustomed to the side effects and polemics – I think I will be given credit for this – but I insurgent myself when I hear elected representatives of the majority say that we are putting forward bills to act as a forum and oppose the government when no member of the group The Republicans weren't aggressive at you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u148	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u149	Today, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u150	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] Today? When? In the speeches in the rostrum today, no speaker from the Republican Group has been aggressive towards you! No one was aggressive in committee last week either – I regret that the Chair of the Law Committee left the bench because she could have testified. So please don't send back your own turpitudes! That's enough! On the merits, I have two arguments from the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] First argument: we could not legislate today because a study group has just been set up. My arms are falling! Can we really balance the work of Parliament, that of the Law Committee and that of the House, with the work of a study group? Where are we going? Let us therefore remove Parliament and set up study groups on everything and anything! We will no longer need parliamentarians! Such an argument cannot be understood. That's not possible. The second argument, particularly in the last speeches, is that our proposal is incomplete. We do not disagree, since it is precisely a text that we all call on you to enrich – I am addressing in particular the majority and the Government. Our bill would therefore be incomplete, and we would not deal with women engaged in the fire department. How can we imagine that such an argument can be developed in the gallery by Members of the majority? On the one hand, I do not think that the term firefighter is not generic and does not include women as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u152	Like all my colleagues, I have a great deal of respect for women involved in firefighters. You will have noted that the speaker of the Republican Group on this text was a speaker, in this case my colleague Valérie Lacroute. Frankly, that's enough! We don't understand how you do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u153	This trial of intent is unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u154	You don't accept any criticism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u155	We accept all the criticisms, unlike you, and I come to it. Thank you for reaching out to me. There's no offense on my part. We are parliamentarians who want to move the debate forward. Moreover, when your texts are of best interest, we are a number to vote on them without any partisan consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u156	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u157	Go see my own statistics: you will see that I have no scruples to support your texts when they make sense. On the other hand, what can be said about how you operate here in the National Assembly? On the texts you submit to us, on the bills tabled by the Government, almost no amendment from any of the opposition groups holds your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u159	We spend hours listening to you wisely enough and trying to have certain provisions that we consider essential, which you all reject with arguments as misleading as the two that I have just disassembled. We only have three niches per ordinary session. The Republican Group and its chairman, Christian Jacob, have today chosen to put at the heart of the debate the subject of firefighters, which for us is essential. In these niches, it is not our amendments that are rejected, since we are not even at the stage of discussion of the articles, but you are putting forward motions for rejection or referral to committee which cut the debate short. For the successive speakers – more on your side than on ours, which is normal since you are the majority – they are only an opportunity for the end effects. Thus, you not only detriguing the text, but you also cast suspicion on the intentions of its authors, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u160	And shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u161	I tell you clearly: since the beginning of the quinquennium, you have committed a sin that the French will not forgive you, that of arrogance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u162	The sin of pride!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u163	You do it again when the street seems to me to have called you to order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u164	And widely disavowed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u165	You're the arrogant one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u166	For my part, I am sure that I do not commit the sin of arrogance. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The President of the Republic and the majority wanted the great urbi and orbi debate, and now in Parliament you are unable to conduct not a great debate, but a very short debate on a proposal for a law concerning the security of the French, the future of our model of civil security and our volunteer firefighters, in front of the latter's very eyes, since they are in the stands! It's serious! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I thank the speakers of the groups that supported us, which shows that this question is not partisan: I thank our colleagues on the left, Mrs Ménard and others... There is still some hope in our country that common sense measures will prevail over certain considerations. Unfortunately, the majority is the counter-example. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the Republican Group rise and applaud]] To Pierre Morel - À-L'Huissier, I would say ironically that unless I missed an episode, the position of Government spokesman has already been filled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u167	Lots of sleeve effects that are useless!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u168	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u169	I would like to continue to speak in this calm tone, which you, Mr rapporteur, have welcomed, and I thank you for that. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are speaking this afternoon to representatives of volunteer and professional firefighters. If I use a soothing tone, I certainly did not preside over SDIS, but I had the opportunity, in my professional career, to lead these men and women. I know how to count on them because I know their commitment. I have set up many services with them, by their side, and I know what they bring to the nation and to the safety of our fellow citizens. Again, I thank them for that. It is a little unfair, Mr rapporteur, to say that I have removed from my hand all the measures you are proposing. That is not entirely correct: some of them are being discussed. We don't send everything back to the study group. The National Council of Volunteer Firefighters – CNSPV – meets very regularly and has adopted measures that I will communicate to you – we have a very precise state of progress and implementation of the Action Plan for Volunteerism. Other measures are under discussion. We discussed pensions and the important issue of security. On this last point, I think I have given a number of points: I have mentioned the protocols in particular. I didn't mention the pedestrian cameras, but I could have done it. I did not rule out the presence of doctors on volunteer firefighters' teams from the back of my hand – I said that such a provision existed. Nor have I left behind everything that concerns the call of 112 and the development of the NexSIS project. We simply say that we need to give ourselves time to make these measures truly applicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u170	We can debate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u171	Nothing would disappoint the people who are listening to us more than to adopt measures which, as Mr Morel-à-L'Huissier has said, would not be legally, technically or budgetaryly applicable. We must continue the work that has been undertaken, and that is what we are going to do. I will give you two examples. There is a question of returning to the correspondence between rank and employment. We discussed this with the professionals: the implementation of this measure is under way, with the transitional period ending in December 2019. Adopting this bill as it stands would be tantamount to questioning everything. I'm not sure that the trade unions would accept it. The same applies to access to reserved jobs, which already exists, in certain circumstances, for category C staff. Would generalization be accepted? Are we certain that there will be no counterclaims with other voluntary commitments, other reservations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u172	That is why we need to debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u173	We must be able to discuss it and give ourselves time for reflection. This does not mean that the work of firefighters is not recognized. Their needs and demands are real: we are working to meet them. Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for hailing the soothing tone I have used. Nevertheless, during my speech, I heard words like "hypocrite", for example, which is not normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u174	That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u175	It's our daily life, we're deputies of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u176	I'm sorry. With the same soothing tone that is still mine, I warn you: on subjects that are the subject of a national consensus, be careful not to fall into demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u177	[[Smile]] The Government is free of this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You can count on the Government's determination to continue the actions undertaken and implement the measures announced in the Action Plan for Volunteerism, which is currently being discussed at the National Council of Volunteer Firefighters. The Committee meets regularly and makes proposals very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u179	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. On the vote on this motion to refer the matter back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before me by the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u180	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u181	On the basis of Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure, Mr President. This motion for referral to committee prevents the normal conduct of our debates. Consideration of this bill, clause by clause, would have improved it by amending it. Firefighters are heroes of everyday life. They're emergency men. Today, however, there is an urgent need for responses when they are attacked – as you know, Secretary of State. There is an urgent need to adapt the law when, in the SIDS, we find it difficult to recruit volunteers – it is a former chairman of the Seine-et-Marne departmental council who tells you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u182	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u183	We're in an emergency. There's enough of Theodule committees, study groups, commissions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u184	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u185	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We will not argue, with this referral to committee, an alibi of impotence. We're actors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u186	I would remind you, for the sake of form, that the defence of a motion referred to the committee is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, I call for a reflection on the evolution of the latter. Maybe it's a lead to dig for the next one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u187	Mr Fabien Matras has the floor to defend the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u188	Citizen engagement is at the heart of today's quinquennium. The promotion of community engagement, civic service, the learning of saving actions and the situation of administrative and technical staff – PATS – are all subjects that are the subject of work and proposals, both by the Government and the National Assembly or the Senate. Volunteerism among firefighters does not escape this desire to emphasize the involvement of our compatriots in a more altruistic and fraternal society. Let us remember that some progress has already been achieved through the joint work between the majority and the opposition. I am thinking in particular of the free tolls for fire and rescue services, voted on following an amendment by Eric Ciotti which I had under-amended myself. In 2017 and 2018, I worked on the issue of volunteering, at the request of Gérard Collomb, then Minister of the Interior. A report was issued, which included forty-two proposals supported by myself, a member of the majority, and Catherine Troendlé, a senator from the Republicans group – another example of consultation that goes beyond partisan divides! This bill incorporates a number of these proposals, and I am pleased to note the willingness of Mr. Viala to work together to implement the recommendations that Catherine Troendlé and I have defended. The Minister had also committed himself to giving effect to all the proposals that fall within the regulatory field; Christophe Castaner and Laurent Nunez continued this action by entrusting the CNSPV with the task of working on certain topics addressed during the said mission for the revival of volunteerism. I would point out that the CNSPV is chaired by Ms. Troendlé, Senator of the Republican Group. At the same time, work is under way with the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-fireurs de France, the Ministry of the Interior and myself. He will continue with all the groups of our assembly, thanks to the study group that will be co-chaired by Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier and myself. It is very happy that you can put proposals on the table in this area, because this will allow us to start this debate in our House. The recent establishment of a study group will further engage us. This bill contains major topics such as violence against firefighters, the availability of volunteer firefighters, compensation mechanisms for certain employers, the social protection of volunteer firefighters, and the establishment of a single emergency number, which is currently the subject of intensive inter-ministerial work. That text should therefore be welcomed. Although the proposed solutions are not enough to resolve the difficulties faced by firefighters, they oblige us to ask ourselves collectively and without a partisan approach to our model of civil security, which is one of the French exceptions. It is said too often but without being really aware of it, our model of civil security is today a French exception in Europe, even if some countries are approaching it. It is an exception of fraternal and disinterested engagement in a society which is unfortunately often referred to as individualist. The crisis of values is a litany in modernity; However, these values exist thanks to the commitment of the volunteer firefighters. The result is that almost 80% of firefighters are now volunteers. All of this we owe to those who commit themselves to their compatriots, at the risk of their lives, who give without counting and who make our collective pride. It is in this spirit that we have recently considered several bills that, in the absence of a comprehensive and unified approach, have had the merit of putting the status of volunteer or professional firefighters at the centre of the debate. In fact, we have been able to overcome partisan divisions, in the name of the common good, by adopting recently the PATS bill from a senator from the Republicans Group. However, this bill deserves further work with the Government and all the groups in our assembly. Indeed, it is not conceivable to adopt a bill that has not been the subject of prior consultation, not only with the first concerned and their federation, but also with all the representatives of the nation. It is not a question of participating in a race for the first to introduce his or her bill, but of achieving more efficient solutions that are more in line with the expectations and needs of our firefighters. The aim, above all, is to deal with the problems as a whole, as I told you earlier. Many subjects are still under discussion and it seems to me premature to vote on this text without letting the consultation take its course. We must deal with the problems and the challenge of reviving volunteerism as a whole. As my colleague Huguette Tiegna pointed out, discussions are currently taking place between the Ministry of the Interior, the Directorate-General for Civil Security, the representatives of firefighters – the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-fireurs de France, in particular – and the professionals concerned. I don't believe in the omniscience of elected officials, whatever they are. We must feed ourselves into the positions of those who, on the ground and on a daily basis, face the difficulties that we intend to resolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u189	That's what we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u190	The bodies exist – the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-fireurs de France is one of them, the trade unions of professional firefighters are others – and we will have to involve them in our reflections. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We do not object in principle to your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u191	You don't care about the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u192	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u193	[[Same movements]] As we said earlier, some of them deserve to be developed, are positive and go in the right direction, even if they need to be reworked. That is why we prefer to refer to the committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u194	You're sectarian! Recognize it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u195	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Please, ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to tolerate such a lack of respect. One can express one's convictions while respecting the speaker. Only Mr Matras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u196	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I think the firefighters here deserve better than your barking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u197	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u198	Let us continue our debate in serenity, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u199	Without objecting in principle to your proposals, some of which are positive, as I recalled earlier, we therefore prefer to refer the text back to committee in order to allow further consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u200	It's a fight against yourself! You're repeating yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u201	A debate on firefighters deserves more time and more hours of debate than a simple niche would allow us. Let us recall, in order to do a little technical work, that we would have been obliged to close the debate at one o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u202	What an argument! It's null and void!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u203	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If we discuss this issue outside a niche, we will have a lot more hours to give to firefighters here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u204	I would point out that the Republican Group has also called for a public vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u205	Mr Matras, you have spoken a lot about consultation, calling it your wishes. For our part, we have made it our method. We auditioned many people. Contrary to what you are trying to suggest, this bill is not the result of the elucidations of some of us: we have developed it with all the experts who have willingly contributed to this work. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] As for consultation at the level of the National Assembly, I would like to make it clear that we have proposed that all the groups co-sign this text, which is not a widespread practice. You were completely free, both of you, to associate with our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u206	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u207	This bill is important because it concerns SIDS, the profession of firefighters and voluntary engagement. It responds to an urgent need, at a time when the French model is under stress, as everyone has said here. Our model is exceptional but it is fragile; It can't last. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Contrary to what Mr Matras has said in defending his motion for referral to committee, there has been very broad consultation. I want this document, which contains a list of all the people who have been interviewed so that this text is the result of a consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u208	All right! That's enough of the truths! You mustn't let everything be said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u209	... and that it obtains the consent of professionals and volunteers who are waiting for concrete and directly applicable solutions. I regret that you are adopting your usual strategy of confiscating public debate, purely and simply, when it disturbs you. With this motion to refer to committee, you are obviously trying to hide the inertia of the majority and the Government since Mr. Collomb's departure. The latter had been questioned several times in this House during questions to the Government, and he had made strong announcements. Since then, we've been looking so little, so far, so uncertainly. In addition to trying to mask your inertia, this motion to refer you back to committee testifies to your cuckoo strategy: the majority parasitizes the ideas and proposals of opposition groups, when they are good, and feeds on them to make them reappear later, under the pen of members of the majority who attribute their paternity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] All this is deeply detestable, when there is now room for debate on concrete proposals made in the interest of the SDIS of our departments. That is why the Republican Group will not vote on this motion for referral to committee, which is deeply detestable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u210	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u211	Without taking up the elements developed during the general discussion, I would like to say that the Secretary of State has strengthened us by referring to the action plan for volunteering and measures to improve the working conditions of volunteer and professional firefighters. We can trust him with regard to pensions and security. The members of the MODEM Group are committed to ensuring that these elements are taken into account. We want to rework this bill in a much more comprehensive way, as we said in the general discussion, because it is incomplete, unbalanced and does not take into account all the financial consequences that could hinder its implementation. We all agree that something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u212	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u213	We recognize the work done by the Republicans Group. I find it regrettable to hear that we are not validating your proposals when we do not agree on everything and that we are defending a motion to refer it back to committee. We have indicated that this text addresses interesting topics; However, as Members of the majority, we have the right not to think the same thing as you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u214	It's always the same! It's been two years! It's lamentable, it's not on the level!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u215	I'd be grateful if you'd let me finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u216	You have the floor, Mrs. Luquet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u217	It is regrettable and somewhat demagogic to suggest that we are necessarily opposed to this bill. We support the possibility of doing a better job...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u218	We're rowing! It's laborious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u219	No, Mr. de la Verpillière, we're not rowing at all! We are fully aware of the work that remains to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u220	You're embarrassed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u221	No, we're not embarrassed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u222	Please, Mr. de la Verpillière!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u223	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We will prove to you, in the coming months, that we are going to deliver on our commitments to firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to question the speakers but to listen to them respectfully.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u225	They don't want a debate, so we have to question them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u226	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] No, Mr. de la Verpillière, you don't have to question them. I ask you to listen to the speakers with respect, whatever their group. It's up to me to enforce this rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u227	You won't stop me from talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u228	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u229	The success rate of the bills tabled by the opposition must be close to zero.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u230	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This means that no proposal, no initiative has been found by you. And you dare to boast the merits of a great national debate, which you present as the panacea! Do you think we're fooled? Unfortunately for them, the French will be treated like us, your opposition to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u232	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u233	What bothers me in this case is that your refusal is addressed to men and women who demonstrate exemplary citizen engagement, who are often heroes of everyday life in our communes and neighbourhoods. Your overwhelming majority gives you rights, which we gladly recognize, but also duties to those who ask us to make arrangements and improve their situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I ask you to give up your motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u234	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u235	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] I am obliged to reply to Arnaud Viala – I regret it, but he challenged me and I am very sorry about this way of doing things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u236	You're making the broken virgin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u237	I can say what I want here. [["Oh there! »on several banks in the LR Group]] Mr rapporteur, you have three years and six months of presence in this institution. As for me, I'm 16 years old and nine months old.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u238	Argument masculine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u239	I specialized in this subject, and the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-fireurs de France awarded me its medal of honor. I'm proud of that. I'm proud of the work I've been able to do. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I'm sorry, Arnaud, your inappropriate humour. I remember coming home to support you at a time when you were worried about your re-election. Aveyronnais and Lozerians have always been in solidarity. Don't ruin this solidarity! [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] [[Ms. Hélène Zannier applauds]] Unfortunately, you have worked solo on your bill, without obtaining financial and budgetary guarantees. Your text is badly linked, and the members of the National Federation here know that. Your bill is a tote. That's not how I work. Don't be surprised she's not supported! It's your failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u240	You sin because of excess self-esteem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u241	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, the IUD, Action and Independent Group will abstain on this motion to refer you back to committee so as not to hurt you too much, my dear Arnaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u242	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u243	There's an atmosphere, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u244	For the atmosphere, the Minister of the Interior is missing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u245	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, with you, it is always "no". Either it's too early, or it's too late, or it's not ready.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u246	Either it's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u247	What is the point of introducing bills if we can never debate them to improve them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u248	How many texts have been adopted?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u249	By force, you're going to set fire everywhere. Don't count on the firemen to turn it off! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Of course, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u250	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u251	What is a motion to refer back to committee, if not a misguided way of refusing to debate a text and even oblivious to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u253	In committee, you made it clear that it was premature to adopt this text, but before we come to such a conclusion, we must examine in public the various provisions of this bill. In committee, we have all had the opportunity to express our views on the various articles and on the amendments tabled. We were able to do our work as legislators. The chairman of the commission took care of it. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore does not understand that the majority requests that this bill be referred back to committee. By refusing to debate in public, you refuse to debate in front of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u254	That is the problem: there is a gap between the speech of the majority and the action of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u255	That is not my group's understanding of the mandate of a Member of Parliament. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Thiérot applauds]] The professional and voluntary firefighters, the women and men who are the honour of our country and whose large presence in the forums of our Chamber this afternoon I welcome, deserve concrete solutions to the difficulties they face on a daily basis. They are an essential link in our relief chain and our territorial grid. That is why it is our responsibility to debate this bill. This is all the more important because its review will allow us to obtain answers to the questions that we are asking, as I did in the rostrum earlier, particularly with regard to funding. It will also allow us to clarify certain provisions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Liberties and Territories Group will naturally vote against referring this text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u256	Mr Anthony Cellier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u257	Mr. Viala, you told us that many firefighters were present in the stands. Allow me to greet them because, for several years, I was a volunteer firefighter and auxiliary firefighter at SIDS 07. I've kept some great memories. One of the things I was taught at the time was to make an acknowledgement before going into intervention. This is to ensure that all the elements that make up the intervention have been taken into account before intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u258	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u259	It smells like smoke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u260	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That's the point. The aim is to take into account all the data that make it possible to develop legislation that meets the expectations of our firefighters. That is the subject of this motion for referral to committee: we want to finish the discussion. We are not saying that Mr Viala's reflection is not the right one, we think that it should be supplemented. In short, we propose to complete this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u261	We can do it with a parliamentary shuttle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u262	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u263	The La République group on the move will vote in favour of this motion for referral to committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group, let me remind you that this morning we adopted a bill on orphan diseases from your group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u264	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u265	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is proof, if necessary, that we are showing a certain openness of mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u266	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u267	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 85 Number of votes cast 82 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 49 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u268	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for its further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u269	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u270	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u271	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a constitutional law by Mr Pierre Cordier and others to combat over-regulation (No 101, 1817).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u272	Mr Pierre Cordier, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u273	First of all, I would like to thank the administrator who worked with me for several weeks on this important text, as well as those who agreed to be heard within a relatively tight time frame. This text is timely, since the time has come for great debate. On the ground, we met many entrepreneurs, artisans, traders, farmers, who told us about the daily difficulties caused by the standards. This text is also timely, as we are in the midst of a campaign for the European elections and we are talking about the overtransposition of European directives, a subject which has been burning for many years now, Madam Keeper of the Seals. I will start by giving you two figures: 320,000, the number of legislative and regulatory sections in force; EUR 60 billion is the cost of the administrative burden on companies in France every year. These two figures speak for themselves. They show that society as a whole – companies in particular – is stifling under the influence of normative inflation. The actors in the productive economy that I meet every day, like you, ladies and gentlemen, all share with me the same observation: there are too many texts which, stacked on each other, lead to unnecessary complexity and harmful to the economy. The result of this continuous regulatory increase is an administrative and financial overload for businesses. It also leads them to a loss of competitiveness compared to their foreign competitors. Finally, it leads to a feeling, very developed among entrepreneurs, artisans and traders, of exasperation and discouragement. In the face of this situation, the Prime Minister, like several of his predecessors – I am thinking of Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Jean-Marc Ayrault – has taken a circular aimed at controlling the flow of regulations and their impact, a text that prohibits overtranspositions. If a decree creates a new binding standard, it must remove two equivalent ones. However, the scope of this circular is necessarily limited for four reasons. First, a circular has no normative scope. Its scope is limited to decrees only, with the exception of laws. The assessments of the administrative burdens concerned shall not be subject to control by an independent body. Finally, with regard in particular to the prohibition of overtranspositions, exceptions are provided for when a file is submitted to the Prime Minister's office to justify them – and it seems that it is being used extensively. It is recalled that the draft law on business growth and transformation – PACTE – had been presented as the text of the non-overtransposition; It includes a provision, in this case relating to the equity ratio of executive remuneration, aimed at overtransposing a European directive. In the same circular of 26 July 2017, the Prime Minister stated that "controlling the flow of regulatory texts is the first step in a broader regulatory simplification exercise, which is also intended to cover legislation. As part of the constitutional reform announced by the President of the Republic, it will be up to the Parliament to define the modalities for a better framework of legislative production". However, the draft constitutional law for a more representative, responsible and effective democracy, whose consideration by the National Assembly was interrupted on Sunday, July 22, 2018, as we all remember, does not contain provisions aimed at better controlling normative inflation, but rather contains provisions aimed at rationalizing the parliamentary procedure. Finally, the Prime Minister has taken a circular by which he excludes simplification bills - all in favour of taking into account, in each sectoral bill, a component of measures to simplify legislative standards. However, the objective is, again, to simplify legislative standards, not to reduce or control their number, as reflected in the Justice Programming and Reform Act and the PACTE bill. It can therefore only be seen that there is a widening gap between discourses on the simplification of law and reality on the ground. Is normative overproduction a specifically French evil? It would seem that this would become so, given France's delay in comparison with comparable States. Thus, the method of compensating for the creation of standards, otherwise referred to as "standard budget", is practiced in various forms in several of our neighbours. In Germany, under the "one-for-one" principle, the deleted rule must result in a reduction in administrative or overall costs which are identical or similar to those resulting from the rule created. In the United Kingdom the "three-for-one" principle applies, i.e. compensation of £3 for a pound sterling of additional expenditure imposed on businesses. Similarly, the principle of non-over-transposition is applied in Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, which seems to be the only country in which the principle of "same copying", which is to transcribe the text of the Directive into domestic law without any addition or change, has been established as a method of common law. Therefore, in view of these foreign examples, it seems imperative to go beyond the measures taken so far. That is why I propose, with this proposed constitutional law, a strong measure, capable of putting an end to the behaviour of normative overproduction. The aim is to include in the Constitution two principles designed to combat over-regulation on the one hand and over-transposition on the other. Drawing on foreign examples, Article 1 proposes to give the Prime Minister's machinery a much wider scope. It lays down the principle that any legislative or regulatory-level text that introduces a binding standard for businesses should be consequentially deleted. The inclusion of this rule at the constitutional level must enable it to be applied to all laws and regulations. The application of this rule must be understood from a qualitative point of view – standards of the same value must be concerned – and quantitative – the deleted rule must result in a reduction of the administrative or overall costs identical or similar to that created. The application of this rule must also be accompanied by an indispensable prerequisite: a significant improvement in the quality of the impact studies which accompany the draft texts. Thus, with the aim of forcing producers of standards to measure the weight of the burdens that their activity imposes on third parties and not to exceed the ceiling allocated to them, this article proposes an effective mechanism to combat the negative effects of over-regulation on businesses. Article 2 defines the rule that no law or regulation may impose requirements in domestic law that go beyond those laid down in the European text. The aim is thus to better combat regulatory deviations resulting from the overtransposition of directives or, where appropriate, European regulations, which penalise the competitiveness of French companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is two revolutionary articles, if you pass the phrase, Madam Seals. In view of what business leaders, creators and investors are telling us on the ground, we must take this issue with ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u274	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u275	Mr rapporteur, thank you for giving us the opportunity, thanks to your initiative, which is a proposal for a "revolutionary" constitutional law, to refer to normative inflation in our country. While the excessive production of standards is a universally shared evil, as evidenced by the numerous initiatives taken in several countries to remedy it, France has a certain singularity in this regard. I will not go back to the fact that you have just drawn up, after many others. It is no longer necessary to mention the numerous studies of the Council of State on this subject, the parliamentary reports that have stigmatized this phenomenon, or the initiatives taken by successive governments over the past twenty years to try to contain it. Your report describes it faithfully, and carefully analyses the origins of this normative pruritus. If we all collectively have a great difficulty in combating this normative proliferation, it is because its origins are diverse and, above all, structural. In its 2016 study on simplification and the quality of law, the Council of State highlighted the sociological, technical and administrative factors that explain this phenomenon. In an increasingly complex world, it seems natural that standards also become so. Social expectations are growing and are often translated, at the very request of the actors, into new laws or regulations. We must not neglect the bureaucratic logics at work, in France as elsewhere. The Conseil d'État also cited political or media factors, as well as the consequences of the hierarchy of norms that induced mechanisms for the production of cascading texts. It is therefore not possible to designate a particular government, a particular majority – which you have not done – that would have been more necessary than another. We have chronic "normativitis" in France, against which there is no miraculous remedy. On the other hand, we have a whole series of practical provisions which, implemented by firm will, will bear fruit. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be acknowledged that the figures set out by your rapporteur are dizzying: there were 320,000 legislative and regulatory articles in force in 2018. As a result, the stock is considerable, while the annual flow remains very large, with about 50 laws and about 40 ordinances comprising between 300 and 1000 items, respectively, and between 200 and 1900 items. I do not even mention the more abundant regulatory measures. The overtransposition of European law is a special case of this phenomenon. The Directives leave Member States a margin of discretion in transposing the rules they contain. It has been shown that there is a tendency in France to go beyond what is required by European texts. It is also a well-identified phenomenon that successive governments have undertaken to combat, but it must be admitted that the very concept of overtransposition covers problems so different that it is quite difficult to deal with the issue automatically and radically. I'll be back in a minute. The abundance of standards is not in itself critical. Law is a necessary framework. It is often a source of progress as it protects, incites and frees. All too often, however, the overabundance of texts and, even more so, their complexity and instability lead to an increase in administrative burdens and additional financial costs borne mainly by businesses, especially the smallest of them. On this subject, too, the figures mentioned are impressive: the administrative burden on companies would amount to 3% of GDP, or about EUR 60 billion. The World Economic Forum's report on competitiveness in the world, which ranks France one hundred and seventh out of a hundred and forty for the administrative burden on businesses, has been repeatedly cited. The Government has not remained inactive in the face of this situation. One can even say that barely installed, he has devised a method that bears witness to a real will.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u276	But that doesn't necessarily prove its effectiveness!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u277	Madam Keeper of the Seals, fortunately you're here to open our eyes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u278	The Prime Minister's Circular of 26 July 2017 has put in place instruments to control the flow of regulations and their impact on businesses. This text, which you have mentioned extensively, Mr rapporteur, has set out four solid lines to combat normative proliferation. First of all, any new regulatory standard must be compensated by the abolition or, if it is proved impossible, by the simplification of at least two existing standards. The circular provides some kind of instructional instruction to apply this "one for two" rule. Second, the prior measurement of the impact of any new regulatory standard must be intensified, whether it affects enterprises, local and regional authorities, deconcentrated government services or individuals. Moreover, the overtransposition of European directives is prohibited, except to show that derogations from this principle are absolutely necessary. Action must be taken on the flow and on the stock. Finally, non-normative provisions are prohibited. The non-legislative provisions are contrary to the Constitution, as the Constitutional Council ruled in a decision of 8 December 2016. Following the July 26, 2017 circular, a second circular was issued by the Prime Minister on September 26, 2017, relating to the "Public Action 2022" programme. Among the five cross-cutting projects identified in this text is that of administrative simplification and quality of service. By a new text of 12 January 2018, the Prime Minister entrusted the interdepartmental direction of public transformation with the task of steering this simplification. In particular, it requires the inclusion in each bill of a component of measures to simplify existing legislative standards. Specific cases are mentioned in the report of the Law Commission. I would like to add that the draft constitutional law introduced last May on the Bureau of the National Assembly, the discussion of which began in July and ended, alas, very shortly thereafter, contained provisions that would reduce legislative proliferation. The systematic inadmissibility of government amendments – I stress that the government's amendments would also be concerned – and non-normative parliamentarians, of a regulatory nature or considered horsemen, could make it possible to restore the form that should be theirs. In addition, emphasis is placed on the evaluation of laws and on the possibility of correcting, after this evaluation, devices that would not lead to the effects initially expected. It is also, it seems to me, a way to fight against talkative or questionable texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u279	What about the talking ministers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u280	I'm afraid I didn't hear you very well, sir.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u281	I was wondering if there was a solution for the talking ministers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u282	What a disrespect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u283	Certainly! But for Members too, there must be a solution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u284	Is it the same?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u285	[[Smile]] I don't know if it's the same. I doubt it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u286	It's a shame! You're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u287	This political will, expressed at the highest level, had first positive results which Mr Cordier welcomed in his report. This is only possible because, beyond the circulars mentioned above, an effective mechanism has been put in place, under the special supervision of the Secretary-General of the Government. The General Secretariat of the Government has always been the watchdog for the quality of the law, but I believe that its role has been even more active since the 2017 circular. Of course, all the draft decrees go through him. It's a requirement. As soon as they are received, the texts which contain a new constraint are identified. Many exchanges then take place with the ministry concerned to encrypt the constraint and then validate the compensations proposed at the same time. The assessment is made on a case-by-case basis, at the cost of extremely precise work. The results are there, since after eighteen months, the departments sent Matignon only thirty-two draft autonomous decrees with new constraints. Four draft decrees have been abandoned, including the one on technical inspection of light commercial vehicles, which you certainly remember – it planned to advance the date of the first technical inspection of more than 6 million vehicles in use. Six decrees were redacted from the constraints envisaged, and twenty decrees resulted in 48 compensations. Finally, two projects were blocked due to a lack of compensation. These figures can be compared with the 150 decrees that have been issued in the past 18 months. The compensation imposed enabled companies to save EUR 20 million. With regard to overtranspositions, any ministry wishing to go further than the obligations imposed by a European directive must justify it by producing an extremely detailed analysis note submitted to the Prime Minister's office. I myself experienced this experience when drafting the personal data protection bill. As you may recall, European law retained a principle that was no longer to require prior authorisation by the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – for the creation of certain data processing, but to set up a reporting system that would empower stakeholders. When I wanted to maintain a system of pre-trial formalities for criminal treatment carried out on behalf of the State, it was necessary to produce a highly reasoned analysis in order to obtain Matignon's green light. But if the flow of overtransposition is to be tarnished, it is also necessary to tackle the stock that continues to weigh on businesses. This is the work carried out by the inspection mission requested by the Prime Minister in the July 2017 circular. This mission has shown that the phenomenon of overtransposition is difficult to quantify, as it results from the very content of the standard. Thus, out of 90 transposition deviations identified at legislative level, one third did not have real overtranspositions because domestic law took place outside the scope of European Union law; another third party because European law itself was evolving in a way consistent with national law; Finally, because these overtranspositions were justified by public policy objectives assumed by the Government, whether in favour of the protection of the environment, the promotion of a social policy... For example, it can hardly be considered that the requirement of the package of neutral cigarettes is a simple overtransposition. However, last October the Government introduced a bill to deal with the stock of actual overtranspositions identified by the inspection mission. This text was reviewed by the Senate and forwarded to the National Assembly. As you can see, the Government really intends to tackle normative proliferation through a clear will of the Prime Minister, and through clear guidelines and robust methods backed by vigilant actors. Let us turn now to the constitutional bill before you today. Is it really necessary to amend our fundamental law to achieve the goals that you have drawn up and that are common to us? That is the question you are asking us today. I will not dwell on the paradox of proposing to introduce a new norm – and in addition, of constitutional value! – to combat the proliferation of standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u288	You're tough, Mrs. Keeper of the Seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u289	No doubt this is a very French one, but I will not insist. The Government is not in favour of this text, for reasons of substance and form. It can be said that the fight against the proliferation of standards, which has been constant for twenty years, is probably still insufficient and that there is a real need for ever more vigorous action. This is indeed the will of the Government, with new, stricter and probably very operational methods. Is introducing a constitutional obligation more effective? Beyond the symbolic value of adopting such a mechanism, I am not convinced of it. At the same time, there are substantive issues. How to define a binding standard, as described in section 1 of your proposed law? The vague nature of this concept poses difficulties because, if adopted, it would be up to the constitutional or administrative judge to verify that the rule of compensation for such a norm has been respected, with the opposite sanction being the annulment of the normative text. Moreover, why apply this rule only to companies? Why not local authorities, public institutions and individuals? Finally, the scheme provides for the compensation of one legislative or regulatory standard by the repeal of another standard, but without specifying the level of the latter in the hierarchy of standards. As for Article 2 on overtranspositions, he raised other questions, some of which were in principle. I have already mentioned the protein nature of the concept of overtransposition: going beyond what is required by a directive can be positive when it comes, for example, to better protecting consumers or the environment, and while it is true that this can lead to new constraints for businesses, they can be justified by political objectives that are a matter of national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u290	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u291	The balance between these conflicting objectives is therefore a political choice. To prohibit such a possibility constitutionally is to restrict the discretion of Parliament and the Government. I don't wish it. It is also a risk of systematically aligning itself with the lowest common European denominator; We have often seen that the adoption of a more ambitious national law can then stimulate European law – it has been seen with the protection of personal data. Finally, I will not dwell on the notion of requirements mentioned in this article, but it would probably merit a more precise definition. It seems to us that the fight against the administrative burdens on businesses is much more a matter of political will and rigorous practice than a change in our constitutional norm. I'll close...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u292	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u293	I note that Messrs. MPs are always as elegant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u294	We behave in the same way with men!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u295	I would conclude, I said, by observing that under article 89 of the Constitution, a constitutional bill is necessarily submitted to a referendum. Even if the question you are asking is of importance, I am not convinced that consulting the French on this issue is a top priority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group – Philippe Latomb also applauds]] You will have understood this: for all these reasons, the Government is not in favour of the adoption of this text. But your proposal for a constitutional law will have had the immense merit, Mr. Rapporteur, of allowing us to address this important issue and the Government's action in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u296	How elegant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u297	In the general debate, Mr Raphaël Schellenberger spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u298	[[Smile]] Keep it short!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u299	This text leads us to question the functioning of our legal system. Rarely has France had such a constitutional longevity as under the Fifth Republic: it has been sixty years since our Constitution was in place, and as many years as we accumulate rules, laws, decrees, norms, and even jurisprudence. We often talk about the normative inflation of parliamentary or governmental initiative, but it must be noted that case law also contributes to normative inflation and leads to an increase in the number of rules and criteria for their interpretation applicable to our companies, associations or local and regional authorities. This stacking of rules, texts and constraints has gradually led us to forget the fundamentals of our legal system. The saying "No one is supposed to ignore the law" is becoming more and more difficult to implement, which leads to an incomprehension of the legal system, which has become too complicated for our fellow citizens. Many cases require an implausible technicality on the part of lawyers to be apprehended. When the jurists themselves are not fully able to know and understand the texts that apply, what about the citizen who gets to know them once or twice in his life? All this leads to a rejection of the system and of liberal democracy. While our democracy is supposed to protect freedoms and support initiatives, we have gradually fallen into a fully administered regime, making it difficult for initiatives to emerge in our territories. This proposal for a constitutional law tabled by our rapporteur, Pierre Cordier, and placed on the agenda at the initiative of the group Les Républicains aims to change logic, to move from a state that controls in a taunting manner before the implementation of the initiative to a state that places the responsibility of their choice on individual actors. We will always prefer a State that trusts the actors, while asking them to firmly respect the basic rules of collective life, in this case of the rule of law, to a State that is particularly taunted before the establishment of an enterprise or the innovation of a territorial community, but does not afford itself the means to control the effectiveness of the application of the rule. This is the evil our system suffers: the state is able to bother every actor in our territories, whether they are communities, companies or associations, by forcing them to fill in a multitude of files. Ask a mayor who has applied for a grant under the DETR – the equipment endowment of rural territories – or the DSIL – the local investment support endowment – and you'll see what's happening: each year, there's an additional document to provide, an additional form to complete. On the other hand, once the project is validated, the actor is completely unresponsible: the administration will almost never verify that what he has indicated in the documents actually corresponds to what he has implemented on the ground. We want to move on to another logic, where we trust a priori but where we are much firmer in terms of control. This will contribute to a better acceptance of the role of the State in our territories. Today, the state covers itself, takes out the umbrella, but does not ask everyone to assume their responsibilities. We propose to change logic and marry a new company project. I'm lucky to be a Member of Parliament in a border riding with Germany. This leads me to ask important questions about how our system works. In France, for the past few years, we have been complaining about having a learning system that does not work; We say that we must put the package on learning, because it is the royal way to access employment and the social elevator – which is true, in my view – but we do not give ourselves the means to achieve it. When a company receives an apprentice, it assumes the financial, social and time burden, but has no counterpart because the apprentice does not have the right to do much in the enterprise. In Germany, the same apprentice could do almost the same work as an employee. This difference is linked to the explosion, in France, of tatillon standards that apply to our companies. I hope that our country will free itself from these taunting rules and trust the learning teachers to take our young people to a better economic future. It is therefore our normative system and our logic of almost systematic over-transposition of European directives that we are calling into question today. In this so important year when we are going to make choices about Europe, we must be clear and transparent with our fellow citizens: it is not the European legal system or the European political system that poses a problem, but their transformation by the French administrative system that makes European policies incomprehensible. It is true that some overtranspositions reflect political choices, sometimes ahead of European policies, but this is not the case for the vast majority of overtranspositions as they are perceived in our territories. This proposal for a constitutional law presented by our excellent colleague Pierre Cordier is also a way for our group to express our hope that Parliament will play a more important role in the normative process and the control of the Government. We want to trust you, Mrs. Seals, but we see that reducing overtransposition and normative inflation is slow to materialize. That is why we want our House to be competent to judge, to decide whether to stop or speed up the reduction in the number of standards. This proposal for a constitutional law is the result of the desire to give back to this assembly of its superb. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In short, this text aims to make it sustainable and firm the intention to reduce the number of texts applicable to our businesses, territories, associations and communities. These texts prevent innovation from emerging even though we all know that the 21st century will be that of creativity, innovation and the move forward – everything that is today impossible for us because of our normative system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u300	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u301	The proposal for a constitutional law, which today calls for our attention, aims, on the one hand, to abolish a standard in force in conjunction with the introduction of a new binding standard for businesses, and, on the other hand, to prohibit the overtransposition of European standards. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] By its historic political position, the MODEM Group remains opposed to any proposed constitutional law, in accordance with the practice of our institutions. We believe that any initiative to reform our Constitution must be left to the initiative of the Government, better able to formalize its framework and substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u302	That is not what the Constitution provides!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u303	No one today can be in agreement with legislative inflation, which makes our law increasingly illegible, nor with some overtranspositions of European standards that impose more arduous competition on our companies. However, whether or not we agree with the objectives of this constitutional bill, there is one point that I wonder about, namely the relevance of the proposed measures to the objectives they aim at. In order to carry out a genuine policy of simplification, the Council of State calls on us to increase the accountability of public decision-makers, to control the sluggishness of normative production by examining alternatives before pursuing reform projects, and to facilitate the practical application of the norm through greater accessibility of the law. Companies need a readability that is not guaranteed by this proposed constitutional law. By simply imposing the removal of "an existing standard" for any introduction of a binding standard, it ignores the necessary assessments and consultations for such a system with major economic consequences. The Government and the parliamentary majority were not insensitive to that goal, and the constitutional review should, inter alia, provide a better framework for the establishment of better standards. That's not all. We recall that on July 16, 2017, the Prime Minister signed a circular on controlling the flow and impact of regulations. This text lays down essential principles to combat normative inflation, including "the removal or, if proven impossibility, the simplification of at least two existing standards" for the adoption of any new regulatory standard, and the establishment of a stock assessment of standards for each ministry. This more pragmatic mechanism covers the objective of Article 1 of this text. This was followed in September 2017 by a circular requiring departments to put in place a transformation plan that includes "administrative simplification and improved service quality". Finally, in January 2018 a circular was signed on the simplification of the law and procedures in force, which entrusts the Interministerial Directorate for the Transformation of Public Action of the General Secretariat for the Modernization of Public Action with a "resolved action of simplification". As these measures show, the fight against legislative inflation is a point of vigilance for the Government. The text on the simplification of company law discussed last week is ample proof of this. The overtransposition of European standards, i.e. the maintenance of legislative or regulatory measures going beyond the minimum requirements of a directive, concerns various situations. The conscious and assumed overtranspositions should be distinguished from those which would be fully unjustified. Some over-regulations can be explained by a deliberate choice by the legislator or by the regulatory power in favour of more ambitious regulation than that provided for by the European Union. In most cases, these are situations where France has failed to assert its position during the negotiations. Thus, these choices are entirely justified in specific cases, and no one can doubt them, since they enable us, in particular, to anticipate the stakes of a future evolution of the European standard. This flexibility provides the legislator with the necessary room for manoeuvre and cannot be hindered by a strict constitutional straitjacket which, as this proposed constitutional law does, would not allow for the specificities of each situation to be taken into account. Having said that, we are fully aware that overtransposition, even justified, could lead to a loss of competitiveness of our companies in sectors subject to European competition. We therefore strongly recall the need for these overtranspositions to be assessed on their economic consequences for the actors concerned. The Government's action is fully in line with that perspective. I would remind you that a bill to remove overtranspositions of European directives in French law has been considered by the Senate. Its objective is clear: to combat the excesses of standards penalising the competitiveness of enterprises, employment, purchasing power and the efficiency of administrative procedures and public services. I would also like to mention the Government's report on the adoption and maintenance in positive law of legislative or regulatory measures that go beyond the minimum requirements of European Union law laid down in the law for a State serving a society of trust, which will make it possible to assess this phenomenon fully and objectively, in order to step up the fight against it. This struggle is not new, since all successive governments since 2011 have taken part in it. However, it would be futile and inaccurate to think that the fight against overtranspositions is solely the responsibility of the Member States. In this regard, we should note the sustained efforts made since 2014 by the European Commission and the other EU institutions to improve the European normative process, notably under the Better Regulation programme, which could limit the risks of overtransposition of European standards. In this sense, the European Commission's fewer initiatives suggest that overtranspositions will be less frequent in the future. In addition to increasing the spread of public consultations aimed at anticipating the possible difficulties of Member States in transposing certain European standards, further coordination between Member States in transposing important directives is a solution that cannot be overlooked. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement fully agrees with the idea advocated in this constitutional bill. Everyone agrees that legislative inflation, which includes overtranspositions of European directives, contributes to the lack of accessibility of the law and is a brake on many players. Nevertheless, I can assure you that measures to make the fight against these phenomena effective have been taken by the Government, which is attentive to the problem. It must be noted that including these principles in our Constitution would not only be ineffective in the light of the current arrangements, but also inconsistent from the legal point of view. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, I would like to say that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u304	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u305	Mr rapporteur, you mention 400,000 rules from the regulatory process. This over-regulation has implications for the competitiveness of companies, since its cost would be between EUR 48 billion and EUR 61 billion per year. It also has consequences for legal insecurity because it makes it difficult for our fellow citizens to comply with the saying that "no one is supposed to ignore the law". Mrs Untermaier and other colleagues have carried out an important task on the manufacture of the law which denounced our propensity to vote too many texts and advocated a series of good practices which, for some, find their place in our rules of procedure. This was, in particular, an impact assessment prior to legislative work, taking stock of legislation and identifying the administrative burden that a new provision would place on businesses and administrations. A review was also to be carried out after the adoption of the law, with a six-month evaluation report. The previous government had tried to react with the "simplification shock" launched by the President of the Republic in 2013. The results are rather positive, as more than 260 of the 415 measures dedicated to businesses are now effective. The principle underlying Article 1 of your text has the appearance of common sense, but it has only the appearance, because the problem is understood in an accounting and purely mechanical way. However, simplification must go further through the codification exercises of existing rules in order to better ensure their accessibility, without taking into account the number of rules that are affected. It is the multiplication of the sources of law that has led to a dispersion of rules between many codes. To meet the challenge of inflation and legal insecurity, a qualitative logic must be set in motion. However, this text considers the issue only from a quantitative point of view. It seems to me that it is during the screening of the impact assessment that this reflection must be carried out and the demonstration that the law is useful, without any additional burden, brought. A special rapporteur for this analysis could be appointed by the commission for any bill, and the commission could require such an analysis from the Government. This practice should apply to legislative proposals. Article 2 is no more or less tantamount to undermining the sovereignty of the legislator and therefore, ultimately, of the parliamentarians. The obligation to transpose the rules laid down by the European Union must not prevent the legislator, if he considers it necessary, from going further in order to achieve a given objective. France cannot give up its sovereignty. Overtransposition will be combated upstream by preparatory work on the texts to be carried out by national parliaments. It is also in this way that we will respond most effectively to the challenges of our time and to the expected harmonisation between the countries of the European Union. For all these reasons, the Socialist and related group cannot support this constitutional bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u306	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u307	Already in 2009, our colleague Jean-Luc Warsmann, then Chairman of the Law Committee, and Mr. Étienne Blanc gave the Prime Minister a report entitled "Simply simplify our laws to cure a French evil". The problem of legislative inflation and over-regulation is therefore not new. It is unfortunate to have to constantly repeat the same findings and to see that the measures taken have not been implemented. Because we already have a lot of resources to fight over-regulation: impact assessments are now mandatory; the Constitutional Council has made many decisions to make the intelligibility and accessibility of the standard an objective of constitutional value; we appoint implementing rapporteurs; successive governments have issued circulars, the last of which, dating from 2017, provides that, for a regulation adopted, two must be deleted. Yet the problem persists. That is why we first of all welcome this proposal for a constitutional law with benevolence. Its objective is undoubtedly unanimous, and perseverance often allows success. Unfortunately, however, this text is stumbling through a number of pitfalls. It proposes to combat over-regulation by two means: by framing the production of standards at national level and by preventing over-transposition of European standards. The spectrum thus covered is both too broad and too narrow. Too broad, because it is difficult to talk about overtransposition in such a general way. Indeed, overtransposition is not always to be deplored: as has been pointed out in committee, it is sometimes beneficial; The example of maternity leave is on this very important point. Pointing at overtransposition thus has the perverse effect of decredivising all European legislative production. On many issues, however, the legitimacy of the Union to legislate must not be called into question. In addition, the national legislator we are must be able to retain full flexibility in transposition. We should therefore only reflect on overtranspositions that are truly damaging to our businesses or distorting between European countries. Second, in practice, it is difficult to identify what is involved in overtransposition. For example, the bill abolishing overtranspositions of European directives, which was considered by the Senate in 2018, contained few articles, and several of them were deleted during the debate, which shows how subjective it is to decide what is involved in overtransposition. The spectrum covered by the text is also too narrow because its Article 1 concerns only standards binding on companies. However, while we are aware that the excess of standards weighs on economic actors, they are not the only ones who suffer from it. Every citizen can be affected on a daily basis, especially in terms of his or her accessibility to the law. Local authorities are also severely affected by an excess of standards, which sometimes makes their functioning more difficult: territorial elected officials are regulated and many projects suffer from them. As you will have understood, if we are in favour of the objectives pursued by this text, we find it difficult to fully adhere to it because the means it advocates to stem excess standards do not seem to be the right ones. This proposal for a constitutional law, however, has the merit of initiating a reflection which is certainly not new but which it is necessary to recall in view of the continuing difficulties on this point. We need to ask ourselves, at all levels, how we draft the laws. At European level, it is above all at the European Commission that efforts must be made, and this has begun. Impact assessments need to be improved so that the usefulness and weight of the new standard is better assessed and taken into account as soon as it is drafted. At the national level, it is up to us, as parliamentarians, to avoid the overbidding of standards. We can transpose the directives in a more appropriate way to the law in force. Moreover, the introduction of any new norm must lead to a reflection on its arrangement within positive law, in order to avoid any overlap, contradiction or repetition. This requirement would make the law clearer, clearer, more consistent. Everyone's work, without a new law, can stem legislative inflation today. At the administrative level, finally. While it is sometimes necessary to draft implementing decrees or other regulations, it is not acceptable for the administration to go so far as to distort or render illegible a law passed in Parliament. In addition, the reversal of the logic of articles 34 and 37 of the Constitution has given rise to what I will call a "bureaucratic right": from now on, the high administration to the preponderance in the preparation of laws. As we have said in committee, a strong political decision must be taken in order to channel the normative production movement. The 2017 Prime Minister's Circular on Regulatory Control, which states that the adoption of a new regulatory standard must be accompanied by the removal of two existing standards, is a good start. However, we do not have at this time any mechanism to assess the application of this circular, which prevents us from assessing its full content. Thus, for the legislator in the broad sense of the term, a set of implicit rules can be respected by all with a view to reducing normative production. The complexity of the world requires a legal corpus provided. On the other hand, like the proposal for a law to support the operation of the departmental fire and rescue services and to enhance the profession of firefighter, which has given rise to a somewhat lively debate, too many communication laws, voted in emergency or chattering, are detrimental to the overall normative coherence. The legislative exercise must meet a qualitative and non-accounting objective. To this end, it is necessary to depart from the often erroneous idea that difficulties can only be solved by new legislation often decided at the moment, under pressure from the media or opinion – especially since each one often legislates within its specialty, without having in mind an overall view of the legal system. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to quote Dean Jean Carbonnier, because this professor and lawyer, Emeritus, has given a lot of thought to the law and the way in which we produce standards. In one of his latest works, entitled Law and passion for law under the Fifth Republic, he raises himself against the vigour of passion and appeals to reason: I believe that we can all draw from it wisely to fight over-regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u308	[[At 18:30, Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u309	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u310	As we see every day in our territories and as many reports show, the regulation in France is plethoric – I don't invent anything – often unreadable, too unstable and sometimes overly binding. Moreover, it is often out of step with the reality of our companies and can even hinder their development. In fact, Mrs La Garde des Seales reminded us yesterday, on the occasion of the debate on democracy and citizenship, of Charles Péguy's quote: "Parliamentarys make laws in parliamentary language; The people are subjected to them in French language. » This gap between the work of the legislator and what our fellow citizens are experiencing in practice is a reality that we have long known and which contributes to the French's distrust of national representation. This mistrust is accentuated by excessive normative production in domestic law and an almost systematic over-transposition of European directives. We must not diminish the importance of this over-regulation in the daily lives of our companies. In our territories, dozens and dozens of projects abort every day because the entrepreneurs who are the initiators of them face an avalanche of standards and constraints, and are struggling with a taunting technostructure. In general, over-regulation undermines all the living forces in the territories. The latest example, which has had disastrous consequences, concerns the return by France of nearly 660 million euros of European aid for rural areas, due to defective software and heavy administrative complexity. Therefore, these subsidies will not benefit our territories. Since 2013, just over 1 billion euros have been wasted. This is a fact: legislative inflation, which many of us have been denouncing for several years, is detrimental to all of our citizens, as well as to the legal certainty and competitiveness of our businesses and, consequently, to the attractiveness of the territories. To remedy this scourge, this afternoon you are submitting a constitutional bill that does not fully satisfy us. Before I enter the heart of this text, let me stress this paradox: you are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, that we adopt a constitutional bill to combat too many laws!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u311	You're not the only one who says it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u312	One might wonder if it's really a good formula. Moreover, for the Freedom and Territory Group, to which I belong, using a constitutional bill as a legislative vehicle does not seem appropriate. We believe that the basic text cannot be revised for such provisions. Its supreme character must be respected, which means that we must, as we say, have the hand that shakes before changing the Constitution. We do not see the need to revise the latter in order to combat legislative inflation affecting our businesses and the over-transposition of Community standards into national law, because other means of achieving this objective exist. For our group, it is by making good laws that we can fight the obstacles to the competitiveness of SMEs. It is by changing practices that we can stop this excessive normative production. Thus, combating over-regulation means first looking at the quality of what is produced: it is probably less and better to do. The 2008 constitutional review has developed tools that enable it to do so by, inter alia, putting in place the necessary legal framework for real progress in the area of the quality of the law. We need to use these tools and strengthen them if necessary. Improving the quality of the law is an issue for our fellow citizens and for us, as legislators: it will allow us to give back to the law all its meaning, all its value, all its authority and, upon arrival, all its effectiveness. We must act as early as possible in the preparation of the law, in collaboration with the various actors, the ministries concerned and the intermediate bodies. That is how we can avoid, for example, provisions that contradict and place our businesses in a situation of legal uncertainty. In addition, we need to make the political decision more meaningful: the executive and the legislature must ask themselves the question of the need for each bill or bill. Let us ask ourselves, for example, about the need for the text before us now: would its adoption remove the normative barriers to the competitiveness of our companies? We believe that this would probably not be the case, in particular because human and financial resources are needed to implement such provisions and because these resources are clearly not funded. Moreover, our perception is that this legislation would put us at risk of inserting in our legislative arsenal an additional law that would hardly benefit the economic actors of the territories. It is therefore obvious to us that the impact of this new legislation would, at the limit, be contrary to what you want. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not legislate at all. The resolution of a difficulty or the establishment of a legal framework conducive to our businesses does not necessarily involve the drafting of a law; That is what you want to tell us through this text. We must therefore first and foremost, as I have already said, focus on the quality of our legislative work. This is why the Libertés et territoires Group proposes to strengthen the use of impact studies, tools to improve the quality of normative texts. To enable them to fully deploy their potential, however, they must be engaged from the beginning of the reflection. Finally, to better legislate, we must stop believing that all decisions must be taken from Paris, Paris and, too often, Paris. We must stop considering that the technostructure must have the last word in front of the elected representatives, because they know the daily realities of the inhabitants, the companies and the associations of their territories – you know that it is an aspect of things that I care about. This is also the reason for the tendency to over-regulate: to cut off territories too often. Let us therefore move towards a broad decentralization movement; Let us equip local authorities with the capacity to adapt national laws to local specificities, but also with experimental power and regulatory power – in this respect I will not go back to what we want more specifically for Corsica. That is how we will be able to legislate more effectively. As you can see, there are ways to improve the quality of the law. They must be accompanied by a real evolution in practice. This is the responsibility of all those involved in legislative work. On the other hand, we are aware that the overtransposition of European directives can hinder the competitiveness of companies and paralyse initiatives by creating too many constraints. However, reversing the trend is not, in our view, a revision of the Constitution, but, again, a change in our practices: it is above all a political will. While the Libertés et territoires Group fully subscribes to your desire to curb normative inflation and the almost systematic over-transposition of European directives, we believe, however, that your proposal for a constitutional law is not the right way to achieve this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u313	Mrs Elise Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u314	As you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, overproduction of standards is seen as an administrative and financial burden, in particular by economic actors, who see it as an obstacle to their activities. Beyond that, the stacking up of standards is a major challenge for our democracy. Like consent to tax, consent to the law is essential to maintain confidence in our representative system and in our institutions. The diagnosis you make is old, relevant and widely shared on these benches. Your proposal for a constitutional law has one merit: it questions us collectively on the quality of our work and on our methods. The objective of simplification must obviously animate us when we work on any text. As rapporteur for the draft law on asylum, immigration and integration, I have been able to face the challenge of identifying a text so that its provisions are understandable to both a vulnerable public and an administration in charge of its implementation. I have been able to measure the temptation of ever more precise, ever more dense, often arising from a positive approach and a desire for completeness. I am therefore well placed, in the light of my experience, to tell you this: to be properly applied, a law must be applicable. Of course, the rapporteur, you surely remember, at one time, the slightest fact of any kind led to the adoption of a new law. We have made progress by sparing ourselves from the laws of circumstance and by favouring substantive texts that undertake the reforms that we have promised to the French. A long time ago, many governments have focused on the fight against normative inflation. Simplification of standards, identified as an element of competitiveness, particularly for TPEs and SMEs, is an objective sought by successive majorities. Not only do we hear this concern, but we are already responding to it, as has been pointed out by Mrs Custody of Seals. A Prime Minister's circular, issued on July 26, 2017, states that any new regulatory standard must be offset by the deletion or simplification of two existing standards. The draft constitutional reform bill for a more representative, responsible and effective democracy provides for strengthening the functions of the assemblies by allowing them to evaluate the law but also to amend or abolish it if it has become ineffective or inappropriate. The proposal for a law on the simplification, clarification and updating of company law also contributes to the objective of simplifying the legal environment for companies. The law for a state at the service of a trust society of 27 November 2017 is inspired by an objective of administrative simplification, including the introduction of a right to error. Finally, as you know, with regard to unnecessary or penalising overtranspositions, a legislative project is also under way. With this proposal for a constitutional law, you raise an important point: we, as legislators, must take our part in this task of pruning and simplifying, through a better prior assessment of the texts we propose and a better drafting of our amendments, so that not only the spirit but also the letter of what we vote are understandable. Above all, we must improve the consistency of the laws that we adopt to avoid contradictions and repeat them with the existing corpus. In this respect, the codification undertaking will have to be continued. As you can see, the Gordian node of the subject that you raise with your proposed constitutional law is less the number of existing or adopted norms than that of their intelligibility. All this will not be regulated by an additional constitutional provision: the method you are proposing is not the right one. Above all, it does not meet the real expectations of economic and social actors, whose concerns you have just illustrated. The main thing is to guarantee them long-term legal certainty, which gives them essential visibility to their activities and enables them to project themselves in the future. Moreover, the issue of normative inflation far exceeds the mere responsibility of the law, which is not the only source of law. Regulatory standards, flexible legal norms and case law have, in an iterative movement, legal effects that challenge our fellow citizens in their daily lives as the most fine jurists. However, your bill does not take into account this normative set. It would also be in danger of a law being repealed without any prior assessment of the consequences of such abolition. It would therefore, in our view, have counterproductive effects by creating legal uncertainty, which we all wish to avoid. If the majority shares your goal, we differ on how to achieve it; That is why we will not be able to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u315	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u316	While the public debate on the transposition of directives has so far focused mainly on meeting transposition deadlines, improving our country's performance in this area tends to shift attention to the way in which directives are transposed when they leave room for manoeuvre to the Member States. Overstandards are detrimental to the competitiveness of enterprises, employment, purchasing power and efficiency of administrative procedures and public services. This is also the case with some overtranspositions of European directives into national law. These unjustified and penalising overtranspositions can take several forms: imposing obligations that go beyond what is required by European law, extending the scope of a measure or not implementing the possibility of derogation or exclusion provided for in a text. The President of the Republic and the Government have made this issue a priority within the broader objective of regulating normative production, simplifying standards and combating over-regulation. At the legislative level, in accordance with the commitments made by the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u317	Amen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u318	...as of July 26, 2017, a Prime Minister's circular provides that any new regulatory standard must be compensated by the deletion or simplification of at least two existing standards. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, companies are the first wealth of our territories: they hire, train their employees, innovate and thus boost the life pools in which they operate. We have a duty of gratitude to those who take risks by undertaking and creating value. That is why, on 27 March, we adopted the proposal for a law on the simplification, clarification and updating of company law, which makes it possible to make the legal environment for companies clearer and more predictable and to reduce or eliminate the formalities and procedures to which they are subject in order to promote their competitiveness. I would also like to point out that Article 69 of the ESSOC law – for a state at the service of a trust society – provides for the submission of a report on the overtransposition of the directives before 1 June 2019 and is fully in line with the fight against this legislative drift. At the community level, the Government, which does not intend to stop there, pays particular attention to the phenomenon of overtransposition of European directives. An initial inventory work was undertaken by an inter-inspection mission conducted by six administrative departments, including IGAS – the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – and IGA – the General Inspectorate of Administration – in order to identify overtranspositions penalising employment, purchasing power or efficiency of public services, in accordance with the circular of 26 July 2017 re-launching the hunting of standards. This report identifies 137 directives which have been the subject of at least one transposition gap with a detrimental effect on the competitiveness of enterprises, employment or purchasing power. Those which do not correspond to any identified national priority and which place an unjustified burden on France's competitiveness and attractiveness in Europe will be abolished in the course of various regulatory or legislative vehicles, in the framework of the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the "CAPTE", or the law on the orientation of mobility, known as the "LOM". Such an issue requires further work. [[Michèle Peyron applauds]] For all these reasons, the LaREM Group will not support this proposed constitutional law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u319	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u320	I must admit that in the first analysis, this constitutional bill seemed rather attractive to me. Who here isn't to make things simpler? Putting an end to normative overproduction behaviour is in fact the dream of every legislator. As far as the substance is concerned, there can be little disagreement: the objective is interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u322	But there is one "but", and even several. First, as I will try to demonstrate, the proposals in these two articles look like swordstrokes in the water. Then, your report, which characterizes the norm in France only by its abundance, complexity and its sometimes inadequate character, completely forgets that it is not absolute evil, but that it has interests as well! Finally, you ignore practices, that is to say, the way in which these standards are lived and lived. What is a standard? It seems to me important to remind him. It is a rule developed to facilitate or secure common life, understanding, communication. For a company – since you like to talk about it – standards often bring together a form of accumulated wisdom and are synonymous with knowledge. They provide a reliable basis for individuals to share the same expectations around a product or service. As a result, they facilitate trade and improve consumer protection and confidence. Take the example of organic farming. In this context, the producer is subject to many constraints, but quality guarantees are accordingly. The norm is not the enemy of man! It is not so much the number and complexity of laws, norms, rules, circulars that are critical, as their misuse. I would like to take another example. Your colleagues in the Senate thought it was good to have a constitutional council that was a little complicit in removing a quarter of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and for a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, thereby emptying it from its substance, in any case with regard to the protection of the consumer and the small farmer. When the Constitutional Council issued its Decision No.2018-771 DC of 25 October 2018, which censors 23 articles, i.e. a quarter of the text, thus abolishing the possibility of selling traditional seeds or, better still, considering that asking that agricultural education contribute to education for the preservation of biodiversity and soil is unconstitutional, it is clear that there is a problem with the use of standards. I don't know if the genius of standards is in this Chamber, but that day he wasn't among the wise men of the Palais Royal! The general states of food and nine months of parliamentary work swept away in this great theatre of staggering lobbying! The misuse or misuse of standards therefore seems to me to be more destructive than the supposed addition of standards. As far as Article 2 is concerned, you are right: the overtransposition of European standards is often a problem that we face regularly. But again, you are giving a sword in the water, or at least in the heart of national sovereignty, since this article would reduce the necessary margin of manoeuvre of the French government. So we should be depriving ourselves of original political solutions to adapt European texts to French? It's unthinkable! The norm is one of the preferred modes of expression of sovereignty. I am very surprised that such a proposal comes from the Republican Group, you who are usually so inclined to talk about national sovereignty! To question our functioning of standards runs counter to this principle. What surprised me most, in the second analysis, is that you proposed a constitutional bill to deal with the issue of standards. I would have thought you were less tiring, ladies and gentlemen! If a constitutional bill is not proposed, why not consider re-establishing Parliament's power to monitor the Government's action?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u323	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u324	If I may, Mr President, I would like to conclude with a small musical note.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u325	Depends...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u326	[[Smile]] Be nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u327	Go on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u328	Emperor Joseph II told Mozart, after the representation of L'Abduction au sérail: "It is a wonderful music, my dear Mozart, but there are, I think, too many notes in this score! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u329	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u330	This proposed constitutional law has a virtuous objective: to control normative inflation. This objective is virtuous when we know the cost of over-regulation not only for our businesses but also for our public spending. This objective of controlling normative production, our majority share it and pursue it. It has been almost two years since we started work on simplification, that we prefer the accountability of the actors rather than the fascination of the written rule – which is, admittedly, a French passion. However, as often happens, if we share the same objective, it is in the method that we diverge. In particular, Mr rapporteur, I would like to go back to Article 2, which aims to combat the overtransposition of European directives, by prohibiting the legislator from imposing requirements higher than those existing in European law. As you know, the Government and our parliamentary majority are fully involved in the fight against over-transposition of directives that do not correspond to any national priority or unjustly weigh on the competitiveness of enterprises. This approach, implemented very recently in the context of the PACTE bill and the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system, will also be implemented in the mobility guidance bill. As I said earlier, it is in the method of fighting overtransposition that we differ. In fact, in your proposal for a constitutional law, you are calling for the abolition of any over-transposition of a European directive. What is a European directive? It is a normative act which lays down principles and objectives, while leaving Member States sufficient room for manoeuvre to define the means of achieving them, in accordance with national realities. They are therefore flexible instruments, with minimum thresholds to be met, but also a margin of manoeuvre to achieve well-defined national objectives. That is why we do not subscribe to the systematic and radical approach that you propose, and we prefer a pragmatic approach, on a case-by-case basis, because overtransposition of a directive can also be done for the benefit of our citizens. This is the case in the health sector: for example, the obligation to use a neutral package for cigarettes goes beyond what is provided for in the Directive on the sale of tobacco products. This is also the case in environmental matters: France has banned the exploitation of hydrocarbons and has set more ambitious recycling targets than those set by the European Union in its road map on the circular economy. This is still the case in the social field: the duration of maternity leave is thus 16 weeks in France, compared with at least 14 weeks in the European Directive. Finally, in the area of consumer protection, France has retained the eight-day withdrawal period for credits, while European law allows it to be abolished. These examples are all obvious cases of overtransposition of European directives, but they are also, and above all, real advances for French and French people. Should they be called into question by the adoption of this constitutional bill? For my part, I don't believe it. I think it is necessary to maintain a proper balance between the removal of unjustified overtranspositions and the maintenance of those that protect the French. Indeed, France must not prevent itself from setting targets that are sometimes more ambitious than European standards in social, environmental or health matters. This method is consistent with our desire to influence the European institutions, because it will enable us in the future to bring our national standards to the attention of European legislators. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of the Republicans who have tabled this constitutional bill, be reassured: we will continue our work to remove unjustified or penalizing overtranspositions; Some will be implemented through the transposition of new directives, others through bills or regulations. At the same time, however, let us be careful to treat these overtranspositions in an undifferentiated manner, as this would deprive us of the freedom of interpretation to which our country is entitled under European law. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I stress this, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Republicans Party, you sometimes present yourself as the defenders of national sovereignty in Europe, but you are missing here, with Article 2, an opportunity to combine acts with words. Your party leader, Laurent Wauquiez, recently accused us of wanting to "get rid of France in Europe". In proposing to remove the margin of manoeuvre which France enjoys in relation to the European Union, it is you who sacrifice the power of influence of our country within it. You will understand that our majority, which has a very strong ambition for France in Europe, cannot subscribe to a constitutional bill that would weaken our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u331	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u332	When we listen to you all, with a few exceptions, ladies and gentlemen, we think that there is an urgent need to do nothing. In fact, most of you propose the status quo. Often, however, the news catches up with us. I thus have in mind, like all of you, the statements of Safran's leaders, who, a few days ago, referred to the difficulties posed by the overabundance of norms, in French law, to set up a business. I am not a shareholder or manager of this company; All I do here is relay what his leaders have said recently. I also think I know, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that your concerned colleagues immediately contacted them to ask them what was going on, what the difficulties were, what the problems were. The multiplicity of standards is therefore not a new problem: it is often mentioned in everyday life; That is why it is important to remedy it. I indicated this by presenting the text, I am making a shocking, revolutionary proposal here. You have raised it, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and your comments lead me to believe that we have several points of agreement. You have thus spoken of "chronic normativite", a disease of French law against which I propose shock treatment. The successive governments, as has been said, wanted to move the lines in this area: those of Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Jean-Marc Ayrault, I said, but also of several other prime ministers. However, it must be noted that the results for the past 15 years have been meagre. That is why I intended, through this constitutional bill, to make a significant difference. Mr. Marc Guillaume, Secretary-General of the Government, whom we have heard, sees no problem whatsoever with regard to standards. He even spoke of a kind of illusion or impression that business leaders, artisans, traders, farmers would have, which would be wrong about these standards coming from the communes, departmental councils, regional councils and, a little, from the legislator. The problem would only exist in the minds of a few parliamentarians, of whom I am a member, who, because they are too present on the ground, have the same impression as the creators who want to invest, to hire, to expand a building. These people, whom we meet every day in our constituencies, regardless of our political sensitivities, are all telling us the same thing, ladies and gentlemen. Whatever your political sensitivity, you are no less present than I am on the ground, I think.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u333	[[Smile]] Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u334	Don't tell me that you don't meet with business leaders who tell you: "Mr.Member" – or "Mr.Minister" – "we're tired of all these provisions that keep us from moving forward. It is not only in the departments of the Ardennes, the Seine-et-Marne or the Territoire de Belfort, I imagine, that the entrepreneurs, the creators, encounter this type of difficulty. You mentioned, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the will of the Prime Minister. But, as I myself recalled in the presentation of the text, the previous majorities had shown the same will. The circular in question, I repeat, is limited in scope and will not solve anything: Edward Philippe's predecessors have done exactly the same thing, without any result. Hence this proposal for a constitutional law, which tends to add a paragraph to article 37 (1) of the Basic Law and an article 37 (2), in order to give air to the creators and to simplify their life, which in my view is a priority. In the report, I referred to the research we have carried out in this area on the practices of our European partners. We always take the example of Germany, but I will add those of the United Kingdom and the Netherlands: in these countries, the reference text, the one at the top of the legal hierarchy, takes the subject into account; and by chance, the unemployment rate is lower, entrepreneurs invest more than in France. This should prompt us to think. The current Government is aware of the problem, you say. According to several officials, the cost of normative abundance would amount to €60 billion, or 3% of GDP, while, since you are in business, the savings due to simplification for businesses have been limited to €20 million. The relationship between these two forces makes us measure the gap that remains to be bridged and the size of a stock that, for the time being, no one has attacked. You recalled, Madam Minister, in terms of competitiveness, France is only 107 out of 140 countries. This justifies our willingness to move the lines, particularly through this text. I therefore regret that my approach is no better understood. Raphaël Schellenberger, elected from a cross-border territory with a country that succeeds much better than ours – let's say things as they are – spoke of learning. I discussed with him this interesting question and the illuminating example of the consumption of European funds. My constituency affects Belgium – his own, Germany – and in this country, Madam Minister, I can tell you that European funds are almost entirely consumed. I have confined myself to the economic world because it seems to me to be an absolute priority in the current context, but the problem also arises for the local authorities, of which we have spoken, and even for the citizens: in France, entrepreneurs, and even local elected officials, encounter difficulties in filing and having the sacrosanct dossiers examined, because of the complexity of the standards. If European appropriations are not completely consumed, it is not because of lack of projects but because we are confronted with these multiple forms, with the excesses of normative production which our European neighbours, in their national law, make more sparing use of. That, too, I believe, must give us thought. I will not go into the details of all the interventions. Indeed, Mr. David, we are voting too many laws, I agree. But what to do? At the beginning of François Hollande's quinquennium, Jean-Marc Ayrault had also taken a circular. Today we see the results: they are more than mediocre. It had been the same – I hasten to say this because I am not looking for any controversy here – with Jean-Pierre Raffarin and other prime ministers, whose circulars, which are very friendly, have proved to be as ineffective. I will not go back to the speeches of the various colleagues in the Republic on the move: all agreed that my idea was great but that it should not be implemented. When you return to your respective constituencies and meet with all these creators, all those who invest in the field, you will talk to them about this Prime Minister's circular, which will not be more useful than the previous ones. However, it was possible this afternoon to effectively change our law, but unfortunately you have chosen another path. No doubt I had made a few illusions, Madam Keeper of the Seals. I had already had the opportunity to sit on the panel for a discussion of a text relating to the telephone lock-up. This subject, in no way controversial, is the exclusive right, the left, or the Republic on the move. The text was only intended to improve the lives of our fellow citizens, sometimes poisoned by this type of stalling: it was swept away by the majority, and I regret it. I will not mention the texts of Aurélien Pradié or, at the beginning of the afternoon, of Arnaud Viala, who had the same fate. During the election campaign, the "new world" had made us look forward to non-Manichean approaches: we would accept, it was said, interesting texts from the opposition, if not to amend them because we could not vote them as they were; We'll unravel, we'll meet in committee to advance the law... I regret that you have, in the end, remained on a very focused approach. It is all the more a pity that the former parliamentarians with whom I have the opportunity to discuss them felt that exchanges, compromises and discussions were more frequent in the "old world".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u335	You always say it was better before!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u336	[[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, Mr. Maillard: You yourself, who come from the right, must remember this: it allowed us to advance our right, on various subjects. I therefore regret, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the approach of the Government and the majority. No doubt we will have the opportunity to discuss it again, but I wanted to tell you this here with great calm, without aggression or malice. Entrepreneurs, creators, investors, who will see that they have refused to move things forward, will be very disappointed by your state of mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u337	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République en marche group, tabled pursuant to Rule 91, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u338	This afternoon, at the initiative of our colleagues in the Republican Group, we are considering a constitutional bill to combat over-regulation. In the preamble, I would like to assure you that the Government and the majority share the objective of controlling normative inflation, and that the majority are already working to combat over-regulation. This movement is also in line with the various simplification measures taken over the last several decades, a task which we must continue to do. Indeed, controlling the flow of regulatory texts is an important issue, particularly for our businesses and communities. Translation of a public policy, the norm can also be a constraint for the competitiveness of enterprises, the administration of local and regional authorities, the functioning of deconcentrated services and the daily life of our citizens. The complexity, stacking and number of standards make the control of regulatory production an issue of efficiency of public action and democracy. However, this text raises a number of questions, of various kinds. On the form, first, we consider that the proposed provisions are not constitutional. In addition, the two articles of the text relate to article 37 (1) of the Constitution, concerning experiments of a legislative or regulatory nature: they are therefore unrelated to it. Moreover, pursuant to article 89 of the Constitution, a referendum should conclude the legislative process of this constitutional bill. Should we really imagine a referendum on a text like this, even though the subject is important? This proposed constitutional law would also provide no legal certainty for our businesses, which is paradoxical in view of its explanatory statement, which refers to the intention to facilitate their daily activities. As drafted, it would even be highly detrimental to them because they need, first and foremost, legal stability and visibility. While the objective is commendable, we must strive to ensure that the various economic actors have legible and stable regulations, and to work with methodology. From this point of view, it is not a question of removing regulations or legislation randomly and without any evaluation. The outright abolition of a law does not guarantee the legal certainty that our companies demand. The essential prerequisite for the abolition of a law is the assessment of its impact and effectiveness. In this regard, the draft constitutional revision proposed to renovate the assessment missions entrusted to Parliament by reserving a week in the organization of parliamentary sessions for evaluation and, as a new development, for legislative proposals to correct provisions that had become inadequate or to remove measures that had become unnecessary. Controlling the flow of regulatory texts is the first step in a broader regulatory simplification exercise, which is intended to cover legislation as well. In the context of the constitutional review to be studied by our Assembly, it will therefore be for Parliament to define the modalities for a better framework of legislative production, in accordance with the will expressed by the Republican Group in this proposed constitutional law. As for the substance, I repeat that the Government and the majority are already at work to combat over-regulation. The Circular on the Control of Statutory Instruments and Their Impact, signed by the Prime Minister on 26 July 2017, lays several bases for tackling the flow and stock of regulatory provisions: a principle of double compensation according to which any new regulatory standard must be compensated by the removal or, if it is proved impossible, by the simplification of at least two existing standards; the assessment by each ministry, with the support of the General Secretariat of the Government, of the stock of standards covered by its own public policy area; the principle of prohibiting overtransposition of European directives; Finally, the principle of prohibition of measures with no normative scope. This circular therefore covers the provisions contained in article 1 of this text. Another circular, dated 26 September 2017, set the objectives of the transformation programme "Public action 2022". The programme comprises five cross-cutting transformation projects, including the one on administrative simplification and the quality of services, the issues of which are essential. The reduction of administrative burdens is necessary, both to establish a link of trust between society and administration, to free citizens, businesses and local and regional authorities from the constraints that hinder their innovation capabilities, and to remobilise agents. Overstandards are detrimental to business competitiveness, employment, purchasing power and public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u339	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u340	This is also the case for certain overtranspositions of European directives into national law, understood as any national transposition measure introducing a more binding standard without this being justified by an identified national objective. These undue and penalizing overtranspositions can take several forms: the imposition of obligations that go beyond what is required by European Union law; the extension of the scope of the Directive; the absence of any possibility of derogation or exclusion provided for therein. In the context of the policy of reducing normative production and simplifying the administrative life it has undertaken, the Government has conducted a census and an analysis of the appropriateness of all the overtranspositions identified in French law, with a view to removing those which do not correspond to any national priority identified and unduly weigh on the competitiveness and attractiveness of France in Europe. These various measures are incorporated into the bill to remove overtranspositions of European directives in French law, currently under consideration by our assembly, after being adopted by the Senate on November 7, 2018. This text, which aims to limit the overtransposition of European directives into national law, therefore covers the provisions contained in Article 2 of this proposed constitutional law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, and considering that the fight against over-regulation is already under way, the La République en marche group calls for the rejection of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u341	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u342	You're not difficult...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u343	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u344	[[Smile]] The guard of the seals does not answer to the defender of the motion: I know that it is at the bottom of it entirely in agreement with me! Mr Mendes, you have referred to the text already adopted in the Senate: what are you waiting for to be placed on the agenda of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u345	The rapporteurs have been appointed, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u346	Excellent news; We've been waiting for him for many weeks. I understand you yourself have run a business in your department. I imagine that at that time, you, too, met standards that were a problem for you some day. I don't think you're necessarily in the best position, if I may...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u347	Be careful what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u348	I'm paying attention to what I'm saying. I'm talking to you very nicely. You've been a business manager; When you're a business owner, you're faced with standards. I'm not saying anything but that, don't worry, even if I read the local press... You yourself were confronted with these standards and I'm sure you had to one day say to yourself: "Another standard to apply! Especially since your company was specialized in cleaning and there are God knows how many standards to meet in this area. So you must have had that kind of time that's not always very nice. Another element that has been mentioned, on which I agree with the custody of the seals, is of particular interest to me: impact studies. We talk a lot about it here when we look at a text, whether it comes from parliamentarians or from the Government, but you know that it is limited to a few lines or a few pages that do not end up or deal with the substance of the subject. Pierre Morel -à-L'Huissier also mentioned this: in this area, we must be better, if you allow me the word. This is at least one point on which, I believe, we can all agree, regardless of our political sensitivity. In the future, once a text has been placed on the agenda, let us make sure that it is better analysed, by increasing its height, in order to be able to assess its consequences in the short, medium and long term. If we succeed at least in advancing the law in this direction today, it will already be excellent news. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] One of our colleagues quoted Laurent Wauquiez earlier. In any case, François-Xavier Bellamy, with whom I exchanged a few days ago about the overtransposition of several directives in French law, agrees to make things change. This is excellent news, and I am grateful to you for allowing me to promote the candidate for whom I will vote on May 26th!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u349	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u350	The Republican Group will obviously not vote in favour of the motion to reject it for three reasons. First of all, because the constitutional bill that it aims to reject comes from our group – I would like to take this opportunity to commend the excellent work of our colleague Pierre Cordier. Secondly, because this text is good, in that it addresses a problem denounced by all the communities, businesses and citizens: the overflow of norms and the impression – which is not always one – that the state, which has deserted our territories, is no longer there only to control and sanction. Finally, because it will not have escaped you that the great debate has been taking place in our country for several weeks: there is finally only here, in the National Assembly, in the Chamber, that we do not have – which we, the representatives of the people, do not have – the right to debate. I believe that, in essence, the current majority does not like the debate; She does not like the confrontation of ideas, no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, because, believing that you know everything better than others, you do not need our point of view or our proposals. Yet we were all elected by the citizens to make the law. Let us then debate: let us debate Pierre Cordier's excellent proposal for a constitutional law; let us therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. And, if you find the text imperfect or unfair,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u351	Only inappropriate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u352	...you will only have to amend it, or even vote against it. You know, nothing prevents us from discussing it tonight;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u353	It is that you are not already very numerous...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u354	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] ...you'll have the right to reject him at the end! But at least let us debate it, because that is why we are here, for which the citizens voted for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u355	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u356	As you know, Article 48 of the Constitution states: "One sitting day per month shall be reserved for an agenda decided by each assembly at the initiative of the opposition groups of the assembly concerned and that of the minority groups. One day per month and per group, it's not much; However, you decide to use a point of order to prevent an opposition group from expressing itself fully, because that is what this is all about. You are therefore going to deprive our House of the opportunity to debate a text of the opposition, while the debate is at the very heart of our mandate as a Member of Parliament. Of course, the text does not entirely satisfy the Freedom and Territory Group, either in terms of content or form, but we believe it is our responsibility to examine it here and now. The debate would provide an opportunity to address various avenues for reflection in order to combat the scourge of over-regulation. For our group, it is essential to debate the quality of the law, but also a large decentralization movement: it is through laws coming from the territories, made with them and for them, that we will legislate well and that we will fight normative inflation, I think deeply. The Liberties and Territories Group will vote against the motion for rejection because we are viscerally committed to the debate and respect for the rights of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u357	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u358	I am generally against motions for prior rejection and referral to committee in the case of parliamentary niches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u359	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u360	In fact, I abstained on the one tabled in connection with the previous bill, because I think it is good for us to examine the texts presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u361	What courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u362	But here, it is a somewhat specific text: a proposal for a constitutional law. As we know, the Constitution must only be touched with a trembling hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u363	Ah, there you go! We would have been surprised if Mr. Balanant had some consistency...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u364	Moreover, there are some problems with the text. It deals with a real substantive subject, an interesting subject; We have said this and all the groups have, I believe, done the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u365	But...?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u366	But – indeed – it poses several problems, including the essential one of the sovereignty of our country. For example, we have sometimes overtransposed subjects that are not of interest to companies: maternity leave is a good example; Glyphosate is another, sometimes controversial; On this point, France has gone beyond what Europe asked of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u367	Let's talk about it...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u368	We must therefore reject this constitutional bill. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u369	No constancy at Balanant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u370	Yes! The two subjects are entirely different. Do you realize the risk of your text? The keeper of the seals explained it very well:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u371	Come on, let's get some polish!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u372	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...adopted as such, it would affect the sovereignty of our country on a number of points. Let us therefore be reasonable. We debated it in committee. I repeat, our group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u373	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u374	Arnaud Viala is gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u375	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] There's no problem with Arnaud Viala. We just needed a little explanation; We got it, and it's all settled: the Lozère and the Aveyron get along well! I assure you, I received a text; Everything's good! I want to say to the rapporteur Pierre Cordier all the pleasure I have had in working with him. He did a very good job. The IUD Group, Action and Independents believes that the proposed constitutional law addresses a substantive issue: normative inflation. It could have been the subject of a debate, which could have resulted in a consensus text. We will therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u376	Mrs Elise Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u377	As the guard of the seals pointed out, it is above all the complexity of the texts and their articulation that can affect the competitiveness of companies. Rather, our citizens and businesses would need us to make the legislative work more legible, fluid and coherent. In this we are all driven by the objective of simplification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u378	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u379	But do we need a constitutional law and a referendum to achieve it? Obviously, no. The Constitution does not need to be revised on this subject. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Your proposal for a constitutional law seems contradictory to its objective, or even counterproductive. That is why the La République en marche group will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u380	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u381	As a result, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-04-O1207.u382	Next meeting, Monday, April 8, 2019, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the digital services tax bill and changes to the corporate tax reduction trajectory. The meeting is adjourned.
