ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to relations with local and regional authorities (No 2301, Annex 36 ; No 2306, Volume VII), as well as to the financial assistance account "Advances to local and regional authorities" (No 2301, Annex 36). Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u3	After several years of forced downsizing and territorial reforms, mayors and elected officials are calling for stability and visibility. We heard them: for the third year in a row, staffing will be stabilized. Of course, this does not mean that each of the 35,000 communes will receive exactly the same allocation as this year, because the endowments live: they evolve according to the fluctuations of the population, and also because we strengthen solidarity with the rural communes, the priority districts of the city's policy, the overseas departments. Nevertheless, on average, their level will be maintained. As regards the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" – in short: RCT – the appropriations for 2020 will be broadly stable: €3.8 billion in commitment authorisations and €345 billion in payment appropriations. The slight increase in the latter figure reveals the maturity of the mission, in particular the rise in investment endowments, in line with the electoral cycle: disbursements of investment expenditures increase at the end of the municipal mandate. After last year's support for the Government's effort to ensure transparency in the overall operating budget, the DGF, I would like to welcome this year's effort to assess performance. During the Spring of the Evaluation, we recommended strengthening the Mission's indicators. Ministers, who had committed themselves to doing so, kept their promise: the indicators of local investment support endowment, the ISIL, the city's political endowment, the VPD, and rural land equipment endowment, the DETR, have been greatly enhanced by measuring the leverage effect of these endowments on local investment. This initiative provides Parliament with tools to assess the effectiveness of state financial support for local investment. We also started last year, with the rapporteur-general, a greening of the appropriations. An allocation has thus been set up to support municipalities, a large part of which is classified as Natura 2000 sites. This year, the Finance Committee proposes to expand it to include national parks and marine natural parks. The Committee's consideration of the amendments to the DETR revealed surprising variations in funding. Indeed, it would appear that the combination of the 2017 reform, the consolidation of the EPCI, the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation, and the creation of the metropolises have had effects, long hidden by the growth of the envelope itself, which are not justifiable. Therefore, it would be important to begin substantive work as early as January to ensure that the DETR reaches rural areas. In the meantime, we plead for its maintenance at the same level. With regard to other state financial assistance, the DGF will experience certain developments in 2020. Article 78 brings to a historic level the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion, the DSU, and the allocation of rural solidarity, the DSR, which increase by €90 million each. It also establishes the Financial Stability Pact for the new communes for the duration of the period, thus ensuring visibility and predictability for the communes wishing to form a new commune. These financial incentives are generous, but limited in time, since a new commune is destined to become a municipality of short duration. In addition, Article 78 reforms the planning of the overseas communes and territorial districts, the DACOM, whose present form does not allow for effective equalization for the benefit of the ultramarine departments. This was a commitment made by the President of the Republic during the major debate; The work of the Local Finance Committee, the CFL, is also in this direction. A five-year catch-up mechanism is therefore proposed for the overseas municipalities. National solidarity must be fully expressed towards the overseas countries and territories; I will also introduce an amendment to include Mayotte in this scheme. On the other hand, we adopted in the Committee on Finance an amendment to increase the amount of the solidarity fund of the communes of the Île-de-France region, the FSRIF, by EUR 20 million, in order to strengthen financial solidarity within this region. I would now like to raise the issue of the recasting of the DGF. If it did not finally take place under the previous legislature, the evolution of local taxation gives us a new opportunity to engage it. The 2022 finance bill – I'm taking a step ahead of it – will need to be based on a redesign of community wealth indicators. We therefore have two years to propose new financial criteria and indicators. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, other state financial assistance could be simplified. Christophe Jerretie and I will open the debate by identifying in our report the "small endowments", on the model of work led by our colleague Laurent Saint-Martin on "small taxes" and inefficient tax niches. In this way, we wish to fully integrate local finances into the process of simplifying and modernising public finances initiated by this legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u4	Mr Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u5	I just learned that I had to say a few words about local authorities in this small and healthy Friday morning. I will therefore take this opportunity not to speak directly about the mission we need to examine, but to share some thoughts with you. The first concerns relations between local and regional authorities and the State. The Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities is now on the front line to improve, organize and implement all aspects of these relations. The difficulty of this undertaking is obvious: for years, local and regional authorities have been defiing themselves of the state. The creation of this ministry must enable us to improve these relationships and restore a climate of trust. The first objective of its work is the implementation of spatial planning policies, which are not only the relations between the State and local authorities, but also the policies of the city, security or national education. This ministry enables all public policies related to local and regional authorities to be articulated. The second objective relates to investment endowments. Their leverage effect for the benefit of local and regional authorities is, as we know, the first of the bases of work for spatial planning. The investment endowments we are going to examine this morning are quite high, and rather well anchored in the territories. All of us who participate in DETR commissions or in the allocation of a particular grant know this: these mechanisms have leverage effects of 1 to 3, or even 1 to 5, on the planning of the territory and the implementation of projects. They are certainly the most important component of the relationship between local and regional authorities and the state – and this is essential, because if the state has created local and regional authorities, they lead them in turn to develop even further. My second thought concerns taxation and local finance. Although the RCT mission does not have a direct link to local taxation, we have reached a stage – as we will certainly see during our discussions – where it is at the heart of relations between the state and local authorities. We have often referred in this House to the abolition of the housing tax and its replacement, or its replacement, or its new method of financing – I hesitate as to the word to be used – so that local and regional authorities can have the means to invest in their territory. For the past year, we've been reshaping, reforming, or reorganizing – I'm still hesitant! – the finances of local and regional authorities. This work will last several years, and it will have to lead to a structural, coherent, intelligent and quality result in terms of spatial planning. My third thought is precisely about spatial planning. Today we are going to deal with endowments linked to the urban or rural character of the territories. I believe that spatial planning should no longer be divided in this way. It should be seen as a whole: it is what we want to do with it. There should be no geographical division between urban and rural areas. Everyone has problems, challenges, demands of their own; On the other hand, what makes the link, unity, is precisely spatial planning. In recent years, reflection on the latter has progressed. What's this about? What is the purpose of this? The aim of spatial planning is to provide the population with both the best services, the best working conditions and the best living conditions. That is why we must work with local and regional authorities and, of course, with the State. We see new local authorities emerging: Alsace, Corsica, the metropolis of Greater Paris. This other factor of diversity, legal diversity, should not be detrimental to spatial planning or investment in the territories – because unity necessarily requires the investment of local authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond that, we must be sure that collective work pays. We must go beyond individualistic logics: rural, urban, local and regional authorities, the state, the European Union – each remaining on its own side. Only joint work will allow us to move forward and get the best adjustments in the territories and in the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u6	I call Mrs Emilie Guerel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u7	I will not go back to the appropriations for the mission 'Relations with local and regional authorities', which have just been presented in a very comprehensive manner by MM. Special Rapporteurs. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered an opinion in favour of their adoption, and I welcome it. The practice of the Law Commission is to examine the appropriations for this mission from a thematic perspective. This year I chose to work on the theme of citizen participation at the local level. This subject, I admit, is on the periphery of the mission, but it is not anecdotal for our fellow citizens. Less than a year after the flash mission on local democracy and citizen participation, led by our colleagues Émilie Chalas and Hervé Saulignac, it seemed to me essential to extend these reflections in the light of the great national debate. It is time to give the French voice, which has been widely expressed during the great debate, and to reinvent our model of democracy. The Prime Minister reminded us of this need by inviting us, on 8 April, to "build the tools of a more deliberative democracy". In terms of local participation, our country has the peculiarity of having abundant legislation, almost entirely unused even by the most advanced communities in this area. I am not going to take stock of the existing arrangements here: they are extremely numerous, the proliferation of laws on the subject having imposed on local and regional authorities all kinds of obligations. Neighbourhood councils, citizen councils, advisory commissions of local public services, development councils: the bodies are there, but they do not escape the syndrome of the "always the same", i.e. the overrepresentation of certain populations – the most militant, the most educated, or pensioners. As for the tools of direct consultation of the population – local consultation, right of petition, referendum decision-making – their supervision is too strict for them to be truly used. In terms of citizen participation, France is now in a paradoxical situation: while it has a particularly rich legislative framework, most innovations are successfully implemented outside any legal framework. I was pleasantly surprised, during the hearings and my trips, by the incredible dynamism and innumerable democratic innovations of many communities, especially in large cities, such as Lyon, as well as in rural communes, such as Saillans, in the Drôme. But these innovations – participatory budgets, citizen charters, citizen workshops with lots, etc. – are decided, in general, after a simple deliberation of the deliberative body, without regulatory or legislative framework. This is not a problem when it is well organised, which is often the case, but we can still question the real guarantees given to citizens. The territorial dynamics at work, combined with the experience of the great national debate and the ongoing fine exercise of the civic convention for the climate convinced me – but I'm not the only one – that it was time to change scale and make a qualitative level of local citizen participation. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to one of the six proposals contained in the report for opinion which I drafted on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic: the one aimed at creating a genuine right of participation through the drafting of a framework law. Let us be clear: we do not intend to restrain local authorities or impose new constraints on local elected officials, but rather we want to provide them with a kind of good conduct guide, clear enough to secure these participatory initiatives legally, which will strengthen their credibility while giving genuine guarantees to the participants. Article 34 of the Constitution gives the legislator the power to lay down the rules on civil rights and the fundamental guarantees granted to citizens for the exercise of public freedoms. Such a framework law would define general principles for consultations, but local elected officials would remain free to apply or not to apply this common basis of minimum guarantees in their various approaches. This law could also create a status for the citizen participant in order, for example, to compensate participants drawn by lot, as are sitting jurors. Madam Minister, you have doubted in the Committee on Laws the opportunity to legislate in this area, pointing out that citizen participation was not the same in different regions and that the local habits and cultures of elected officials had to be respected. On the contrary, I believe that the same guarantees of transparency, sincerity and fairness must surround the participatory approaches of all French citizens, regardless of the territory in which they reside. Only the law can grant them that right. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As democracy goes through a period of crisis, it is time to take our share of responsibility by re-establishing the common, by re-establishing society – which, I am sure, requires us to support the dynamics of local and participatory democracy in all the territories of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u8	We come to the expression of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u9	As every year, the review of the appropriations for this mission gives us an opportunity to discuss the fiscal relationship between the state and the communities. You wanted, at the turn of Article 5, to carry out an in-depth reform of local taxation, as a result of the announcement of the abolition of the housing tax. This project is based on the same logic that has been at work for more than thirty years: to plan constantly, patiently, the financial and fiscal autonomy of local authorities. What will be the next step? Some, from different political horizons, call for a reduction in production taxes. The Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, referred to a downward trajectory for the latter from 2021 onwards. Which taxes will be affected: the social solidarity contribution of the companies, the property contribution of the companies or the contribution on the added value of the companies – the latter two being collected by the communities? Ladies and gentlemen, this prospect is, like the measures you adopted in the first part of the finance bill for 2020, contrary to the principles of modern local taxation. Our fellow citizens want to be more closely involved in the decisions, they want the link with their representatives to be renewed. I will never stop telling you: we must preserve the consent to tax, a major dimension of local democracy. The adequacy of resources between skills and funding helps to empower local elected officials. This project, which is now necessary, requires that not only the basket of tax resources of the communities, but also the financial assistance of the State, be put back to the ground. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group will propose to you, with a view to clarifying the budget of the local authorities, that a finance bill specific to local authorities be tabled every year and examined by Parliament in the context of the budget discussion. Let us come to the endowments, which, again this year, are generally stabilized, which we welcome. Vertical equalization allocations within the DGF are increasing slightly, but less than in 2019; We have therefore tabled several amendments aimed at further progress, in particular the DSR and the DSU. Investment support allocations are frozen at their 2018 level. Finally, we regret that the allocation of compensation for the reform of the trade tax is once again being planed. I would like to take this opportunity to recall a fundamental disagreement that has been between us for the past three years. Indeed, the net balance of the State's financial assistance reflects the deterioration, year after year, of the compensation for the discounts. We are still awaiting the Government's report on this matter! Minister, trust with communities is not decreed; It is built daily. That is how we all, elected, parents of pupils and teachers, welcomed the Government's decision to split certain classes, so that they would have only 12 pupils, in priority education networks and reinforced priority education networks, the REPs and REP+. The Prime Minister pointed out, on his trip to Seine-Saint-Denis at the beginning of the week, that the duplication of classes, to be effective, would require the duplication of premises, which would result in additional costs for the municipalities, in particular investment and operating costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u10	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u11	Additional resources should be mobilized to deal with them. However, it seems that the municipalities concerned will not receive one more euro! The Seine-Saint-Denis may have EUR 20 million, spread over ten years, which remains well below needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u12	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u13	We are at the heart of the mistrust between the communities and the state: when you do not sufficiently increase the endowments of the poorest communes, when you place new burdens on the communes without giving them the means to assume them, and as a result, the communes lose revenue every year. On the other hand, the compensation for local direct tax exemptions continues to decline. We must take steps to ensure that local tax exemptions decided by the legislator are fully and sustainably compensated. Finally, considerable gaps in wealth between communities persist, including at the level of their endowments. However, the national fund for equalization of intercommunal and communal resources, the FPIC, is frozen for the fifth year in a row. However, it is essential that horizontal equalization remains dynamic, even though some adjustments are made. We also welcome the adoption by the committee of one of our amendments, which amounts to EUR 330 million to EUR 350 million in the amount of the FSRIF. More broadly, in parallel with the reform of local taxation, the Libertés et Territoires Group invites you to plan for the necessary reorganisation of the allocations. Pires Beaune had looked at the main one, the DGF, characterized by its complexity, its illegibility and the multiple injustices it causes, further accentuating the disparities. Unfortunately, you do not seem to share that ambition, Madam Minister. How, therefore, can we vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u14	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u15	While the Assembly will soon be considering the draft law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, the draft budget for 2020 does not reflect any awareness by the State of the need to give local authorities, and in particular municipalities, the means to exercise their powers that are ever more important to the daily life of our compatriots. The two programs involved in this mission and the two related articles do not reveal the true nature of the relations between the state and local and regional authorities that lie at the heart of your draft budget for 2020. On the other hand, the reform of local taxation and the hasty abolition of the housing tax will have far more serious consequences as they affect the principle of the financial autonomy of local authorities. The Government is naturally trying to reassure the mayors on the eve of their congresses and municipal elections. It highlights the bill on engagement in local life and the proximity of public action in the hope of appeasing the anger of local elected officials, which continues to grow. Nevertheless, the reform of local taxation will undermine the patiently built building of the municipality, a municipality that takes care of the population, avoids crises, cushions the bites of liberal policies, pallies the absence of public services. By abolishing the housing tax, including for the richest households, you weaken local communities and local democracy. The fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities is reflected in this draft budget, which is more fixed than it was. This is even more obvious with regard to the departments. Often faced with serious financial difficulties and lack of solutions to carry out their social policies, they were the major losers of recent tax measures. As we know, departments are under threat and their room for manoeuvre is diminishing. This year, the overall operating allocation is stabilised at €28.6 billion and state financial assistance to local and regional authorities at €48.7 billion. Unfortunately, this stabilization, excluding inflation, follows four years of decline in endowments, which it is far from filling. Thus, in Seine-Saint-Denis, the DGF has decreased by 26% between 2013 and 2017 to only increase by 5% over the last two years. In Val-d'Oise, it has decreased by 20% over the same period and has increased by only 2% over the last two years. There is no catch-up or willingness to catch up. The political project for communities is to put them on the trajectory of public finances, to get them on the bottom of the stability pact, to force them to contract. While the local carries public investment in our country, we did not return to the 2012 level. The locks in the policy of stability make it even less so since it is accompanied, on the ground, by a few tricks to the detriment of the communities, for investment as well as for operation. Pass-through tricks when the state, which digitizes and reduces public services in turn, makes use of the budgets of the communities to ensure that they are maintained. Pass-through tower when the supply of equipment in rural areas must be shared among a greater number of municipalities. Pass-through when the funding of equalization within the overall operating allocation occurs through redeployment. While the principle of solidarity with the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy and with rural life is established, the Government does not provide the necessary resources for its implementation. In Île-de-France, for example, municipalities cannot meet the demands of the State and the Agence nationale pour la rénovation urbaine, the ANRU, for lack of sufficient equalization. This mission could have made the ecological shift a reality. The year 2020 could have been a real turning point in the fight against climate change and the collapse of biodiversity. The allocation of support for local investment could have been a useful lever in enabling local authorities to strengthen their actions in favour of the ecological transition. Unfortunately, once again, despite the importance of the stakes, you felt that stability would be largely enough. However, this stability will not compensate for the drastic decline in the financing of local authorities, decided year after year, and will prevent local elected representatives from taking action. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u16	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u17	[[Exclaims and laughter]] Minister, you who have been mayor and senator, you know how short and often restless nights are in the budget period. No later than last night, I had a nightmare! I went back into my past as mayor before 2017 and in my dream I saw a significant decline in the commune's operating holdings for four years, even though it was amortized in the pre-election year. Above all, reading the Court of Auditors' 2016 report told me that, out of the 18 billion euro savings made to the detriment of the local authorities' budget, only 7 billion had reduced the deficit, while the remaining 11 billion had fueled other policies. So I had spent my time lying, to my defending body, to my elected colleagues, when I told them that it was normal for communities to participate in the national recovery effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u18	Did you wake up sweaty?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u19	Damned! I woke up suddenly and, regaining consciousness, I had the relief to understand that all this was behind us. A new period begins: that of the stability of the operating envelope, of a new increase and of a consolidation of the allocations to the investment of the communes, already increased under the previous mandate, of a contract concluded with the most important communities in order to frame the increase in expenditure, in a logic of dialogue. Specific allocations and arrangements shall be maintained or shall be based on expenditure actually incurred the previous year, in the interests of transparency and efficiency. The complete elimination of the housing tax on principal residences, which will be effective in 2022 for the financial year 2023, will promote the purchasing power of our fellow citizens and will be compensated, for the communities – communes, intercommunalities and departments – by stable resources, reassigned, from property taxes, VAT and equalization. We've really changed our era! Do not hesitate, Madam Minister, to inform us of the latest developments in the field of local taxation, with a view to strengthening national clarity and solidarity, both at national and departmental level. Let us return to the draft budget for 2020: the Government's commitment to local and regional authorities remains stable, amounting to €48.9 billion for the third year in a row. In fact, it is up 1.2% – which still represents an additional EUR 600 million. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You will therefore understand, Madam Minister, that we will vote the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" with confidence and serenity. Yes, the return of trust is on! This mission is a model of conduct towards local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u20	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u21	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u22	The review of the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" will certainly be an opportunity for you, Madam Minister, to stress how much your policy is at odds with that which was carried out under the previous quinquennium – and that is what Mr Rebeyrotte has just done. Indeed, it is still useful to recall that, during the five years of François Hollande's mandate, only local and regional authorities have participated in the visible recovery of public finances. They have been the only ones to reduce their spending and the only ones to reorganize their services, which are often the closest to the daily concerns of our fellow citizens. Apparently, so, it's a breakup.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u23	Actually, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u24	Precisely: what is the reality? The appropriations for this mission will increase by EUR 15 million, which is far less than the current needs of local and regional authorities and, above all, far less than inflation. There are contracts between the communities and the state to curb the increase in spending, but revenue does not increase, not even in proportion to inflation! It is all the more a pity that, at the same time, you are putting a blow to the fiscal autonomy of the communities, which even the socialists had not dared to do. You are talking about financial autonomy, freedom, responsibility, the progress of the draft law on engagement in local life and the proximity of public action – which will, as by chance, be discussed in the Chamber the week in which the Congress of Mayors will be held – you repeat that it is important to support mayors in their action on the ground, but you do not give them the essential part of their freedom to act, namely the means of their financial and fiscal autonomy, which is enshrined in many European texts to which we are committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u25	Ah, that passion for taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u26	This is not a passion for taxes, Mr. Chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization; This is just a pious wish of the Government, namely, to leave mayors responsible for their policies in their territory, which includes fiscal and budgetary responsibility. The second part of the finance bill does not correct the wrongs of the first and confirms the undermining of the fiscal autonomy of the local authorities. Moreover, the future is hardly reassuring for local elected representatives, since a dispute has emerged in committee about the way in which the bases of compensation for the abolition of the housing tax are updated, which represents a stake of 250 million to 400 million euros. Today, we are far from the promise made by Gérard Collomb to compensate the euro for the reduction in the housing tax. You were with her then, minister, and I know that you helped to make that promise. Two years later, we discover that the compensation will be based on rules that we would never have imagined: two- or three-year-old bases of calculation, the non-update of rates... Even real foundations may not be taken into account! Of course, this text also contains some good news: the implementation of the FCTV automation is accelerated, the distribution arrangements of the DGF for the EPCIs will evolve. All this, however, cannot make us forget the question of the fiscal and financial autonomy of local elected officials, which guarantees a freedom to which we are fundamentally attached. I repeat, for the past five years only local elected officials, mayors or chairmen of departmental or regional councils, have been involved in the recovery of public finances. We should thank them by giving them a little of their financial and fiscal autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u27	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u28	[[Smile]] I very much appreciated the beginning of Mr Schellenberger's speech when he acknowledged that this mandate was a break from the previous one. I enjoyed only this part of the speech, but since the Republicans group finally recognised this fact, I wanted to congratulate him. In fact, the drastic reduction in the allocation of state financial assistance between 2014 and 2017 was extremely damaging, not only for the budgets of local and regional authorities, but also for their relationship of trust with the State. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement therefore wishes to commend the attention given by the Government and the President of the Republic to the stability of the State's assistance since 2017, which reassures the local elected representatives. This stability requires the securing of state financial assistance to communities in 2020, which amounts to EUR 48.9 billion, even with an increase of EUR 600 million. Support for the functioning of municipalities and departments is also stabilized through the DGF's €27 billion. Most importantly, the government will support various community investment projects. We welcome the Government's financial effort to provide 1.8 billion euros for local investment, spread over 1 billion euros for support to rural areas through the DETR, 570 million euros for local investment support and 150 million euros for the city's political allocation. The investment support allocation for the departments is maintained at the level set in 2019, the year of its creation, i.e. EUR 200 million. In the course of the debate, we will propose a measure to compensate for the effects of the recasting of the intercommunal map within the framework of the fund for equalisation of intercommunal and communal resources. This amendment, which will provide the possibility of a smooth exit for territories that will cease to be eligible in 2020, is in line with the Government's logic of stability. Minister, during the committee's examination of the state's financial assistance to local and regional authorities, I asked you twice. The first time was about the FCTV, an investment-critical compensation fund, which you announced would be increased by 400 million euros, which we welcome. On the other hand, I have drawn your attention to the provision of solidarity for communities affected by climate events, as it is well known that these events will be more and more frequent. You told us that the current envelope was sufficient. However, we believe that the increase in climate events may lead to higher costs in the coming years than expected. I note, however, that you mentioned the possibility of earmarking specific funds. Last night, the Law Commission concluded its consideration of the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. You assured us that the CTN mission would include a sufficient budget envelope to incorporate the Senate's amendments to this bill, and I hope so, as those of the National Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement considers all these elements to be positive signals of a responsible budget and at the service of local and regional authorities and our fellow citizens. This is a strong signal to the mayors, who expect much from the bill on local engagement and proximity to public action and, above all, from the bill on decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration, said Bill "3D", which we should be considering in spring 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u29	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u30	[[Smile]] Today we are looking at the budget for the "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities" mission, which amounts to just under $4 billion. While it is very modest in relation to the total budget of the State, there is still a lot of discussion and amendments to this mission – although the non-accumulation of mandates seems to have limited their number at the same time as the presence of Members in the sitting, if I judge it by the abundance in the Chamber this morning. Madam Minister, I should like to begin by expressing a regret to you. The general rapporteur and the two special rapporteurs are witnesses to this: I have repeatedly called for the annual report on the ICCF; At this hour, I still haven't received it. However, I understand that your services produced it – it had to be stuck somewhere, perhaps at the General Secretariat of the Government. The ICCF is subject to numerous amendments every year, and it is useful for parliamentarians to have an objective assessment of this horizontal equalization fund. It would also be valuable for us to have at our disposal the report – repeatedly called for, in vain, by the Directorate-General for Public Finance, DGFIP – on the cost to the local authorities of the measures of exemption and reduction of local direct taxes, as well as the report provided for by the draft finance law for 2019 on the logarithmic coefficients used, on the one hand, for the calculation of the aggregate financial potential per capita of the intercommunal groups, on the other hand, for the calculation of the per capita fiscal potential of the municipalities. Are these omissions voluntary, minister? I don't think so. Are they the result of a continuing decline in the number of staff in some government departments? The question arises. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to equalization. The yellow budget on the state's financial transfers to local and regional authorities indicates, on page 123, that "twice as high as horizontal equalisation, vertical equalisation is evidence of the state's commitment to reducing territorial inequalities" and that it will increase by €220 million in 2020. Do you know, Madam Minister, who pays those 220 million euros? These are the communities themselves. It would be time to make a speech of truth if you wanted to regain the confidence of the elected ones. Since 2018, the increase in the envelopes of the DSU and the DSR has been 100% supported by the communities. The worst thing in this case is that the most affluent communities, who no longer perceive FMD, such as Blagnac, Berre-l'Étang or Puteaux, do not contribute to equalization. And what to say – I will come back to it at a longer time on the occasion of the presentation of an amendment – of the seven EPCIs who are subject to a derogation regime that reduces their wealth, which allows them also to exonerate themselves from any solidarity, and even to be beneficiaries of the FPIC, while six of them were net contributors in 2012! It is about the taxation of communities and the taxation of households: injustice creates anger and frustration, which, believe me, are very real in certain territories. A few days ago the Association des mayores de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité, the AMF, denounced a "gaps" between the executive's speeches on local authorities and the reality of policy. Reduce the gap, minister, and maintain a language of truth, alone able to reconcile the state with local elected officials. I intended to assure a minister that the State's financial assistance was increasing this year by 600 million euros, suggesting that the Government was making a special effort. However, this increase is only the result of the dynamism of the VATF linked to the electoral cycle and of the VAT dynamic, a share of which is paid to the regions; In short, nothing more than the mechanical application of the law. I also heard one of my colleagues claiming that the state's financial transfers to the communities exceeded 100 billion euros: "It's huge! "He said. But he did not know what those 100 billions covered: financial transfers, financial assistance, tax transfers, compensation for exemptions... Do you not think, Madam Minister, that it would be time to devise a law for the programming of local public finances and a law for the financing of local authorities, which would ensure the visibility of elected representatives, guarantees of transparency, guarantees of confidence? Let's go back to the CTN mission and its programs. The departmental congresses of mayors were held. Each time, the government representative, minister or member of the prefectural corps, announced the continuation of the state's investment effort – that's a good thing – with a historically high DETR. Because these announcements must not be translated, for the third year in a row, into a reduction in the envelopes for certain rural departments, we have, together with the rapporteur-general and the two special rapporteurs, whom I thank, worked with your services, Madam Minister, whose listening and availability I would like to thank. We have, I believe, found a good compromise, which gives us the time to, I hope, rethink the investment support funds as early as 2020 – provided we get to work next January! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR Group. – Special Rapporteur Christophe Jerretie also applauds]] Finally, I hear a number of voices referring to a reform of the DGF; This represents just under EUR 27 billion paid to the municipalities and the EPCIs. It is a difficult reform – you know as well as I do, Madam Minister – but it is essential. My question is simple: are you ready? If so, what schedule seems reasonable to you?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u31	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u32	At first glance, the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" are in continuity. Yet they are in a particular context in several respects. First, there is the growing demand from communities for more autonomy and decentralization, which requires further compensation from the State. Secondly, the gradual abolition of the housing tax marks the beginning of a reform of the local tax system of historical significance, in that it will radically change its general architecture. As we mentioned in our consideration of the first part of the finance bill, we note with satisfaction the Government's desire to maintain support for local communities by maintaining allocations, including equalization allocations, at the same level as in 2019. However, in order to preserve the financial balance of local and regional authorities, which will be deprived of an important budget revenue, and not to undermine the principle of their financial autonomy, the loss of the proceeds of the housing tax must be compensated against the euro. Finally, an important reform is announced, which will have implications for this budget: the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action – says commitment and proximity. Could you, minister, reassure us, by making sure that the bill for 2020 anticipates this reform? If this is the case, can you provide us with details of the allocation and dangling of the planned entries? On the other hand, I would like to mention the consequences of compulsory education from the age of three: our group has asked several times, but in vain, the question of the temporality of the transfer of resources to the communes. I therefore ask you again, Madam Minister: is compensation to the municipalities for compulsory education at 3 years provided for from the present draft budget, and therefore paid in n+1, or is it provided for in the finance bill for 2021 from the evaluation to be carried out in 2020, and will it therefore be paid in n+2? I would also like to address a completely different subject, to which we are committed: the means of civil security. In this regard, we are making two proposals that fall within the scope of the mission's budget: opening the DETR to certain civil security equipment, and thus putting in place a support from the State that would be welcome; to exclude from the so-called "de Cahors" scheme contributions to the departmental fire and rescue services: we will present an amendment to this effect. I would also like to point out that, while we note as positive the continuity which characterizes the political allocation of the city, which amounts, as since 2017, to 150 million euros, the allocation of support for local investment, maintained at its level over the last three years, and the preserved investment allocations, we would like to point out that these inscriptions still do not compensate for successive reductions of DGF. They compensate for this all the less because the amount of the DGF, which was voted in the first part of the finance bill, is €26.85 billion for 2020, compared to €26.94 billion in 2019, which represents a decrease of €40 million, which we deeply regret. We also note a sharp fall in the appropriations for exceptional aid, as Mr Bru has already mentioned, so that we wonder how these appropriations are adapted to the reality of the pace of natural disasters that our citizens and communities face every year. Finally, I will make a few comments on the overseas allocations. The funds allocated to overseas missions are allocated to a number of missions. Thus, the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" accounts for 9.8% of the State's overseas effort, which is far from negligible. For 2020, the "Overseas" mission suffered important perimeter effects, including the disappearance of the overall allocation of autonomy of French Polynesia, amounting to 91 million euros, which was simply based, fortunately, on the benefit of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities: we therefore find it within the appropriations of this mission. We are counting, Madam Minister, on your voluntarism, so that the amount of this appropriation will be preserved in the coming fiscal years. Action 04, "Overseas grants", of programme 122, comprises the appropriations for the overall operating allocation paid by the State to the provinces of New Caledonia and the appropriations intended to offset the expenses of New Caledonia and French Polynesia resulting from a transfer of powers. With EUR 142 million in commitment and payment appropriations, these allocations remain stable compared to last year, which we welcome in the current context of budgetary rigour. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In spite of the few reservations I have mentioned, the IUD Group, Action and Independents, has taken a positive approach to the review of the appropriations of the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u33	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u34	[[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, since 2017, the Government has been presenting a draft budget that is in breach of past practices – I had planned to say it before hearing from you, Mr Schellenberger, but I thank you for clarifying it. This method is based on three foundations. The first is a clear choice for predictability and stability of resources provided to communities. I thank Special Rapporteur Jean-René Cazeneuve for insisting on this point. The second is a strong state support for local public investment, maintained at a historically high level, about EUR 2 billion – I thank all the speakers who have recalled it. The third is a sustainable strengthening of equalization, in favour of the least-favoured communities, it is true, Mrs Pires Beaune, in a closed envelope. We would like to see stronger growth allowing us to envisage, in the future, an indexation of the DGF, if this proves useful. Of course, you will not have missed something new: the reform of local taxation, which will change the pool of resources of the communities from 2021 onwards. Section 5 of the Finance Bill was passed in a public sitting last Friday; I will therefore not go back to its extensive tax provisions, the principle of which can be summed up as follows: 18 billion euros of tax reduction for the French and, for the communities, full and lasting compensation – to answer your question, Mr Pupponi – by dynamic tax resources. [[Smile]] I'm going to the mission we're looking at. The amount of the allocations is stabilized. State financial assistance to communities will amount to €48.7 billion in 2020, an increase in payment appropriations of €464 million over 2019. The amount of the DGF is set at €26.8 billion in 2020, which is a stable amount compared to 2019, excluding perimeter measures, whereas, I would remind you, between 2014 and 2017, the DGF had fallen by more than €11 billion – which had given Mr Rebeyrotte nightmares. The territorial authorities' contribution to the trajectory of public finances is now ensured by the so-called Cahors financial pact, which covers the operating expenses of the 322 communities to the largest budgets. This device produced its first results in 2018: it is a success. As the target has been largely achieved, most communities have room for manoeuvre for the future. The solidarity effort for the benefit of the less well-off communities continues to rise: the draft finance law for 2020 proposes an increase of 220 million euros in the amounts devoted to vertical equalisation, which is an order of magnitude comparable to 2019 – the increase had then been 255 million euros. This increase would remain fully funded by redeployment within the DGF. In the old system, it is true, this equalization was based half on the DGF and half on a reduction in adjustment variables, but it was still within the budget of the local authorities. With the proposed increase, almost 30% of the DGF will be allocated to equalisation, i.e. €7.7 billion. On the other hand, the amount and rules for calculating horizontal equalization, in particular the ICCF, are stable. The issue of the trajectory of equalization will be linked to how community wealth will be measured after tax reform. Work on financial criteria and indicators in 2020 and, I suppose, in 2021 are therefore essential. I stress this point: the question of financial indicators, i.e. financial and fiscal potential, and the criteria for equalisation will be on the agenda of the Committee on Local Finance, the CFL, in 2020 and, surely, in 2021. I announced it as soon as I met with its members a few weeks ago. This is important because the Government has made it clear that the financial indicators of municipalities, EPCIs and departments will need to be reviewed after the tax reform to neutralize the effects of the margins of the new resources allocated from 2021 onwards. During the Spring of the Evaluation, some of you stressed the need to better assess the impact of equalization. This evaluation work will be able to join in 2020 the work of the CFL and the Government on financial criteria and indicators. I will ensure that Parliament and its delegations to local and regional authorities and decentralization are involved upstream in this work and in the simulations that will be done. During the 2010 reform of the professional tax, the new wealth map resulting from the tax had led the Government to deepen equalization by creating the FPIC. The consequences for the housing tax will not be effective until 2022, for the first distribution after the entry into force of the new basket of resources in 2021: we will obviously aim to seek stability at all costs. Let's go back to the finance bill for 2020. Two specific measures complement the DGF component. The first is the financial support for the creation of new municipalities. Since 2015, the DGF Stability Pact for the new municipalities has facilitated a significant number of communal groupings. Nevertheless, the criteria for eligibility for the benefits of the pact have been highly unstable, preventing elected officials from preparing their merger plans calmly. The Government is continuing its support for the consolidations, which were scheduled to be halted on 1 January 2021, and proposes to establish a single and simple framework for all mergers that follow the municipal elections. The new municipalities which will then be created will therefore benefit, with the same thresholds as today, from guarantees on the amount of their allocations under the lump sum allocation and equalisation allocations, for the three years following their creation. Secondly, we have included in the bill a measure that gives CIPOs the ability to decide their distribution locally. This step to strengthen local responsibility underscores our desire to develop local management of local authorities. The observation is simple: the DGF is distributed according to national criteria, which cannot always reflect all the local characteristics and specificities of each territory. The new intercommunal map, decided in 2017, has had significant border effects on financial indicators and the DGF. They had not been anticipated, in particular for rural communes entering large agglomerations. At present, however, the municipalities that are members of the same EPCI do not have an effective leverage to make a different distribution of the DGF, even though they would agree to do so. Like what exists for the FPIC, we therefore propose a simple and optional system of derogating the DGF from the municipalities within an EPCI, subject to the agreement of all the municipalities and according to the criteria they consider most appropriate to their characteristics. I now turn to the investment endowments. Between 2015 and 2017, the State increased its support for the investment of local and regional authorities, in order to offset part of the budgetary constraint linked to the decrease in allocations. This support was then maintained at a high level and with great stability. The 2020 Finance Bill renewed the amounts of the DETR, the DSIL and the DPV to the 2019 level. The Department's investment support allocation, DSID, resulting from the reform of the department's overall equipment allocation, the CEO, which took place in 2019, is also renewed to the tune of €212 million for 2020. In total, the State committed €2 billion in 2018, 2019 and 2020 on the RCT mission to support local investment. The way in which these competitions are managed has evolved considerably over the past two years, as Mr Jerretie has pointed out, towards a much closer association of local elected officials and parliamentarians – who sit on the DETR committees – as well as greater transparency in the use of appropriations. The lists of projects funded by DSIL and DETR are now public; user reviews and analyses were published last September on the Ministry's website. As Mr Jerretie pointed out, endowments have a powerful leverage effect on local investment. I would also like to point out that some of the endowments – the DSIL in particular – are moving towards the ecological transition. The finance bill for 2020 does not change the rules governing the management of endowments: the legal framework, which is still recent, must be allowed to live, even if it is to be improved when necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u35	I'm sorry, minister, but the time allocated to the government for the review of the finance bill is ten minutes. However, this time limit has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u36	I'll only be a minute, Mr. President. An interactive map showing all the investment allocations was published on the websites of the Directorate-General for Local and Regional Authorities, DGCL, and of the General Commission for Equality of Territories, the CGET. Important and accompanied by very precise analysis and synthesis documents, it improves readability for all municipalities. Last year, we made a similar map on the DGF. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, in response to Mr. Pupponi and Ms. Pires Beaune, the reports on FPIC and logarithmic coefficients were prepared and transmitted by my services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u37	Thank you, Minister. Forgive me for reminding you of the rules on speaking time, but we have particularly heavy weeks right now. We come to the questions, the duration of which, like that of the answers, is set at two minutes. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u38	In the fiscal big bang period that is currently affecting local and regional authorities, and in the light of the upcoming bills – notably the 3D bill, which is expected to be considered in the first half of 2020 – my questioning will be of a general, strategic, political and methodological nature. Indeed, it seems to me that the questions raised by the budgetary mission and by local finances are part of this perspective. By abolishing the housing tax, the Government had chosen to answer the question of the purchasing power of the French by putting its hands on local taxation, by posing the problem of the financial autonomy of local authorities, rather than by other means. It is a political choice, but it has technical consequences, which you have listed and which we have discussed in the House. First, the least affluent – 16% of the French – will not benefit from this decline. For example, in Corsica, 22.5 % of the population have resources below the exemption threshold. It is therefore the most affluent French people who will benefit from this measure, which raises questions. Secondly, the end of the housing tax is accompanied by a very precise mechanism – which some describe as a gas plant – of transferring to the municipalities the property tax on built properties, which is currently collected by the departments. I will make two remarks. On the one hand, this is a loss of financial autonomy for the departments, even if, with the transfer of the property tax on the built properties, one maintains that of the municipalities. On the other hand, it is important to stress that the transfer to the departments of a fraction of the VAT product, as is already the case for the regions, does not constitute a fiscal resource, it is an allocation indexed to 2.45% per year. So my question is simple: from the perspective of the future review of Bill 3D, when are we going to give local and regional authorities real financial and fiscal autonomy, which responds to the transfers of powers already made, as well as to those to come – since I understand that we intend to continue decentralization?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u39	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u40	The removal of the housing tax is a measure for our citizens – all of them. Of course, some did not pay for it, but it will nevertheless lead to a significant increase in purchasing power for many Frenchmen. With regard to the 3D text – this will allow me to reply at the same time to the question asked earlier by Mr Bru – it will be examined after the municipal elections. Let us be clear: it will not necessarily be in the spring, but we will be working on the bill throughout early 2020. Yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, we discussed the timetable. As many bills are already on Parliament's agenda, I am rather sceptical about a review in the spring, but we are going to engage in consultations on the ground, as well as with parliamentarians and elected associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u41	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u42	My question concerns the management of the DETR. In the report on the investment of local and regional authorities which we had drafted on behalf of the delegation to local and regional authorities and decentralization, Mrs Pires Beaune and I called for the optimisation of the management of the DETR, in order to further encourage the investment of the municipalities. In particular, we called for a better anticipation of the procedures – it already exists in some departments, but not in all – and for greater flexibility, or to speak as today, of greater agility, so that the allocation can be given back to projects in progress. At present, 15% to 20% of the DETR's annual appropriations are not mobilised, simply because the municipalities are moving at a different pace than was planned. I know, Madam Minister, that you care about these matters; In fact, you wanted the operation of the FCTV to be reviewed. In the same vein, would it be possible to optimise the use of the DETR, in order to further improve the use of the funds allocated to the investment of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u43	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u44	The use of the DETR, which is decentralised at the departmental level, is actually done according to a timetable and methods which sometimes differ from one department to another. However, what matters is that the projects are ready. Indeed, if it is possible to postpone the use of payment appropriations by several months or even years, financing is granted only on the basis of commitment authorisations. Indeed, since the State is still seeking to optimize its management, commitment authorizations that are not used by a department would risk going back to the central level. That is why it is important that in local authorities the files are ready – and this must be reported in the departments, for example through the associations of mayors. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that we have opened up the possibility of using DETR or DSIL to cover, up to 10%, the operating needs of an investment project. It may be useful, in particular for rural municipalities, to have a small operational component, for example to complete a study.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u45	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u46	A few days from the Congress of Mayors, and despite the conclusion of the committee review of the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, the elected representatives are still not reassured; Trust doesn't seem to be on the rendezvous. The consequences of the housing tax reform are, of course, one of their main concerns. With the abolition of the business tax, which still penalizes certain territories today, they want guarantees not only for 2020, but also for the following years. It must be acknowledged, however, that, for the time being, they are not completely reassured. Several points raise questions, in particular the compensation to the euro near the abolition of the housing tax. It is difficult to make them wrong: in 2020, it will not be compensated against the euro. Worse: Some municipalities, which had to increase their tax rates in 2018 or 2019, will see their tax resources decrease from 2018. Minister, I would like to ask you, although you have already said a few words, about the effects of this reform on the fiscal potential of local and regional authorities and on equalization. Indeed, we must anticipate the consequences of the abolition of the housing tax in order to neutralise them, especially since the number of funds concerned seems high – twenty-three, if I believe the census carried out. Following the abolition of the professional tax in 2012, the Paris department saw its fiscal potential fall by almost half compared to 2011, to the point that it had to find a mechanism to prevent the capital from becoming a beneficiary of the endowment of urban solidarity and social cohesion! The same will happen with the removal of the housing tax if nothing is done. Rich local authorities will see their fiscal potential decline, while the poor will see it increase – it's mechanical. Klopfer measured the impact of the reform on municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. The change in average financial potential from the national average is between a decrease of 32% and an increase of 29%. For CIPEs, the range is between a 54% decrease and a 117% increase. The departments would have similar collateral effects, from a 48 per cent decrease to a 31 per cent increase. In order to make these figures perfectly clear to our colleagues, I would point out that the departments of Hautes-Alpes, Aisne and Tarn-et-Garonne would potentially become the richest in France, while Paris, Hauts-de-Seine and Haute-Savoie would experience a significant decrease in their wealth! It is therefore necessary to use the coming year to correct these collateral effects. Minister, my question is simple: are you in favour of a minimalist correction of the variation in the fiscal and financial potential of local and regional authorities or are you taking the opportunity to review the system as a whole?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u47	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u48	Mrs. Pires Beaune, are you still at the CFL?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u49	No, to my great regret!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u50	[[Smile]] I guess so. As early as January, we will begin the studies that you call your wishes, which are in fact absolutely necessary. It is imperative to anticipate the collateral effects that you refer to. Of course, the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, of which you are a member – this time, I am not mistaken! – will be an essential point of support for the studies we will conduct. I totally agree with what you said. Your examples were very eloquent. As I pointed out earlier, when the intercommunal redistribution was carried out as a result of the provisions of the NOTRE Act, the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic was insufficiently anticipated. I recall the example of the community of agglomeration of the Grand Poitiers, which had chosen to introduce for a year a grant of community solidarity to compensate for the effects of the redistribution of intercommunality on certain communes. It is therefore imperative to start this project. We have two years ahead of us, which should allow us to succeed before the implementation of the local tax reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, we are done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u53	I call the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities", listed in state B. Amendments Nos 308 and 309 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr François Pupponi has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u54	They aim to increase the amount of the DPV, for the first, by EUR 50 million, for the second, by EUR 25 million – this is a fallback amendment. The aim is to ensure that the VPD, which allows suburban municipalities to increase in power, in terms of operating and capital expenditure, can be used, in particular, for the expansion of school premises, in the context of the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP +. In some communes, it is very complicated to split these classes because of the lack of premises. A larger VPD would make it possible to do so. To this end, the Government has proposed to the Seine-Saint-Denis department an envelope of €20 million over ten years, which broadly corresponds to what would have to be invested every year in order for the communes of the département to be able to split their classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u55	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u56	As every year, we discuss the amount of the VPD. As every year, we do not want to increase it. The committee therefore gives an unfavorable opinion on these amendments. However, I shall make two points. Firstly, I would point out that the DSIL and the DPV have, over the last two years, contributed 50 million euros to the financing of the schools in Seine-Saint-Denis, which is a lot. These figures come from the prefecture and from our own findings – I invite you to check them for yourself, Mr Pupponi, but that is a reality. Second, the financing of city policy is not based solely on the VPD. I've counted a dozen programs participating in it. In addition to DSIL, program 147, "City Policy". In addition, specific programmes allow each time to participate in the financing of the investment. That is the justification for the committee's unfavorable opinion. VPD is just one of many tools. In addition, it is found to be well used. Finally, I would like to point out that next year will be part of an election year, which generally has the effect of reducing the implementation of commitment authorities a little while payment appropriations are on the rise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u57	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u58	Mr Pupponi, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amount of the DPV has tripled from 2012 to 2017, before continuing since then, it is true, at the level of 150 million euros. The increase you are proposing would be financed by competition through a reduction in the appropriations for Program 122. However, several speakers have indicated that this programme funds state support for local and regional authorities affected by natural disasters. I don't think we can afford to "pump" this program, if I may say so. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u59	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u60	Minister, thank you for reminding you that we had significantly increased the VPD when we were in power. The VPD, we created it and we increased it. I have taken note of the remarks made by the Special Rapporteur. However, I would like to give the example of three communes in my constituency, who last year submitted to the Prefect, as part of the DSIL, a request for funding to expand schools to accommodate 12 students in CP classes – hence to implement the measures proposed by the Government. The prefect said yes to one municipality and not to the other two, on criteria that I still did not understand the relevance – we discussed last year in a public session. However, the VPD is used to finance this kind of thing. It allows the municipalities benefiting from the city's policy to act – and I repeat that it is a matter of implementing the measures proposed by the Government, not those decided by the municipalities themselves. However, our colleague Little recalled yesterday, only half of the students of Seine-Saint-Denis concerned with the duplication of classes will be able to benefit from it, for lack of premises. It is therefore necessary to increase the amount of the DPV – the Government has acknowledged this this week by announcing an envelope of 20 million euros, but over ten years. It is not we who say it, it is the teachers, the principals and the rectors. The aim is to implement the measures decided by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u61	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u62	I would like to respond to the remarks made by the Special Rapporteur. When the Prime Minister came to Seine-Saint-Denis last week, he made several announcements, including the allocation of this €20 million envelope over ten years, intended to allow in Seine-Saint-Denis the application of the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1. The Prime Minister acknowledged that the Seine-Saint-Denis was under-supported, in the areas of justice and police as well as education. Needless to say, the department has benefited from 50 million euros in two years! These 50 million euros, even if increased by 20 million, do not prevent the Seine-Saint-Denis from remaining underfunded. I therefore support the amendments tabled by Mr Pupponi.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u63	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1776.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u64	It aims to provide the DSIL with an additional €45 million to return to its 2018 level. I would like to take this opportunity to inform the minister that, in the context of the forthcoming discussion on investment grants and support funds, we will have to carry out a census. For the Puy-de-Dôme, I checked the figures: the allocation of support for local investment, for the year 2019, only finances the metropolitan innovation pact, rural contracts, the territories of industry and the communities benefiting from the national action plan heart of city. In other words, it only finances contracting. It's a good thing, but it means there's nothing left for the rest. It is therefore important that the DETR be effectively allocated to the rural territories, to be in some way the counterpart of the DSIL. This distribution must be recorded once and for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u66	This amendment has not been considered by the committee. However, a similar amendment had been tabled last year. I explained that the reduction of EUR 45 million to be offset was the result of the transfer of funding for rural development contracts to another programme. I confirm that the assessment of rural contracts will have to be drawn up in the coming year, before the implementation of the new generation contracts in 2021. We will be able to take stock on that occasion. As far as DSIL is concerned, we have found – in your report on the subject, Mrs Pires Beaune, and in our studies – that it is very focused on contracts, whatever they may be. This corresponds to the focus on the areas and policies we need. Collective work will certainly be needed for next year, including a reflection on the allocation of the DETR, in order not to simplify, but to adapt the DSIL and to consider its evolution. In my personal capacity, I express an opinion against the amendment, as I did on behalf of the committee last year. However, we will be able to work on the DETR, and on the DSIL, as part of a working group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u67	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 1823.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u68	[[Smile]] I would like to refer to the urban basins to be energized, also called "BUD", an acronym which means "bubble" in English, which leads me to convey to you my hope that they will develop! Despite the use of objective criteria of density, disposable income and unemployment rates, this scheme was explicitly created to revitalize the Nord-Pas-de-Calais mining basin. It provides for strong tax incentives, covering national taxes, income taxes and corporate taxes, as well as local taxes, business property taxes and business value added contributions, in order to encourage the establishment of businesses and the creation of local employment. The aim is to respond to the difficulties of economic conversion of the territory. Other mining basins face the same problems, particularly in the Greater East region. Those in border areas, such as mine, are particularly affected by the decline in industrial activity, as workers are attracted to more interesting prospects across the border. The new inhabitants, who work in Luxembourg but reside in France, provide too little tax resources to local authorities. It is therefore necessary to provide for the financing of a new programme, entitled "Experimental Mining Revitalisation Fund – Second Generation BUD", in order to draw lessons from the policy pursued in the Nordic mining basin and apply them to the specificities of the Grand East region, first and foremost Luxembourg's competition. Such an experiment would make it possible to start a reflection on the extension of the BUD scheme to the territorial authorities of the former mining basins of the East, to ensure its abundance of EUR 2 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations, and to determine the eligible territories and the arrangements for this support to the local authorities. The creation of such a programme would send a strong signal of reinvestment by the state of this particularly neglected region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u69	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u70	As the subject is quite sensitive in you, my colleague, I shall first make a brief reminder about the BUDs. This provision is provided for in Article 21 of the Finance Act for 2018, therefore in its first part, on taxation. We found that these were essentially tax exemptions. Two decrees fixed the communes concerned. I do not know if the results of the BUDs have been drawn up – perhaps the minister will inform us on this point. The decree published in 2018 targeted 150 communes, the one published in 2019 targeted 159. In any event, we should have debated this in the first part of this finance bill. As for your proposal to affix the appropriations for the scheme by EUR 2 million, I would remind you that this is part of a tripartite agreement between the State, local authorities and the CGET with a view to setting up an investment fund. I therefore suggest that you withdraw your amendment in favour of collective work on these appropriations. In addition, the RCT mission originally did not include appropriations from the BUD system, but other investment appropriations. In any event, I am prepared to work on this issue, even if it does not fall within the scope of this mission and it would have been preferable to mention it in the first part of the finance bill, in order to have information on the communes concerned. The BUD scheme is tax exempt and four conditions must be met in order to be eligible. For all these reasons, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn. Nevertheless, I would like the minister to speak on the subject, because she could say things that are important for the future of your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u71	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u72	You are proposing, Mr Paluszkiewicz, that the municipalities belonging to the mining basins to be energized, and therefore under the budget, receive an additional allocation of EUR 2 million. The Government is not in favour of this proposal. In fact, state support for local investment is already at a very high level: the credits from DETR, DSIL, DSID and DPV will again amount to some €2 billion in 2020, in a context of stable state financial assistance. The municipalities of the former mining basins may, depending on their eligibility, apply for these various arrangements, in particular the DSIL, whose allocation conditions are very broad. Prefects often resort to it. In 2019 alone, the Prefect des Hauts-de-France invested €6.2 million under the DSIL in the contract for the revitalization of the mining basin in the Nord and Pas-de-Calais. I am convinced that the same will apply to the Greater East region, as part of the expansion of the BUDs. I therefore do not think it appropriate to create a new system specific to a few communes, whereas common law tools already exist and are available. It seems to me more reasonable to use it rather than to reapprove from Program 122. It happens that this programme is also my responsibility and that I must ensure that the different policies are balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u73	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u74	It is true, Mr Special Rapporteur, that 159 municipalities incorporated the BUD scheme in 2018. It should be noted, however, that all are located in the departments of Nord and Pas-de-Calais. I stress that communes in the Greater East region are affected by the same problems and that it would be desirable to include them in the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u75	This is particularly the case in Lorraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u77	We have done a lot of work on this in the last few days, since my amendment was tabled. I would like to take this opportunity, Madam Minister, to highlight the extraordinary responsiveness of your office, at times when our expectations are high and sometimes we are disappointed. Finally, it is true that there are tools of common law; I will not fail to involve my fellow Members of Parliament from the East in my efforts, in particular Mrs Cariou, who is also concerned with the matter. You are right to point out that the DSIL can respond to certain difficulties; However, it does not cover all the problems we face in our territories. I withdraw this amendment in the hope of working on it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u78	[[Smile]] After such compliments, you would have deserved a favourable opinion on your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u79	I have before me five identical amendments, No 856, 305 corrected, 1777, 1828 and 1850 corrected. Mr Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 856 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u80	This amendment, submitted by several groups, tends to call on the Government to submit a report on FCTV under Article 77. I do not think it is necessary to present it further, as this request has been unanimous in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u81	Identical amendments No 305 corrected by Mr Pupponi, No 1777 by Mrs Pires Beaune, No 1828 by Mr Schellenberger and No 1850 corrected by Mrs Magnier are defended. What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u82	It's a matter of data reporting. I believe that we are already transmitting all the necessary data and I am not sure that there is a need for one more report. I am committed to continuing to share all the information you need. There are already too many reports and some are long overdue! Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u83	It could only be a three-page report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u84	In any event, we will transmit the requested information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u85	Amendment No 467 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u86	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1900.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u87	This amendment concerns a subject that has been under discussion for the past two years, that of the 5% increase in the lump sum allocation for new municipalities. For several years, communities, the state and parliamentarians have seen a great diversity in the amount of lump sum grants received by new municipalities; Some of Savoie's municipalities received a bonus of 18 euros per inhabitant, while others, in Aude or Deux-Sèvres, received only a few tens of cents per inhabitant. We propose to remedy this great disparity and to harmonise this amount to 6 euros, which corresponds to the average of the allocations to the new municipalities in recent years. Such a provision would provide great stability, with a guaranteed and well-adjusted amount. The associations we discussed with them also highlighted this complexity and the too large gaps between communities. This amendment has not been considered by the committee. We worked with the ministry to find the best formula and to allow the creation of new communes. Of course, this mechanism would only be in place after the municipal elections and would therefore only concern mergers of future municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u89	The seed allocation you are proposing is for the same objective as the 5% lump sum bonus, but it will achieve it more effectively by allocating the same seeding amount to each new municipality, which will not depend on the amounts of the lump sum allocation received in previous years. Such a mechanism would end the inequalities that you have mentioned. We are in favour of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u90	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u91	I find the idea very interesting. However, I wonder about a possible side effect on the other municipalities – unless all this is done with constant envelopes and perimeters?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u92	I call Mr. Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u93	We have not identified an on-board effect and will ensure that it does not occur after the implementation of the device – but there is no reason for this to happen. I would remind you that the scheme will only concern the new communes to come: the existing communes will not be affected. The overall amount does not change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u94	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u95	This will be a different distribution of the same envelope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u96	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 271 and 466. I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u97	This amendment proposes to restore the guarantee of the sums collected under the DSR for the municipalities concerned incorporating a new municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u98	Amendment No 466 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u99	The elected representatives are asking for stability and visibility. It would therefore be preferable not to change the rules from year to year – it was, by the way, the same thing for Amendment No 467, which concerned the population threshold. It must be considered that the creation of a new commune produces synergies, which, after three years, give their full effect. It cannot be considered that a municipality is ad vitam æternam a new municipality; It must one day become a commune like the others. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u101	Unfavorable opinion: for this reason, the adoption of this amendment would cause what Mrs Pires Beaune feared earlier, namely payments at the expense of the other municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u102	Amendment No 272 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u103	I have before me five amendments, Nos 1885, 1778, 275, 276 and 277, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1885.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u104	This amendment incorporates a proposal made in the context of the 2015 report on the reform of the DGF. The aim would be to abolish the national allocation for equalisation, the DNP, and to pay back the more than EUR 700 million allocated to it, partly to the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion, partly to the allocation of rural solidarity, in proportion to the current breakdown. Of the more than 20,000 municipalities that currently receive the DNP, only 48 would lose: those that do not receive the DSU or the DSR. It therefore seems to me that this proposal would allow us to move forward with the reform of the DGF.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u105	May I take it, Mrs Pires Beaune, that you have defended Amendment No 1778 at the same time?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u106	No, Mr President, because Amendment No 1778 deals with a completely different subject matter. If he refers to the same endowments, he does not aim for the same purpose. Indeed, it tends to double vertical equalization by the DSU and the DSR, thanks to state funding – which is indeed the role.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u107	Amendments Nos 275, 276 and 277 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr François Pupponi has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u108	With these fairly conventional amendments, I propose to increase the progress of the DSU and the DSR in order to strengthen equalisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u109	What is the committee's opinion on these five amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u110	As far as Amendment No 1885 is concerned, you know, Mrs Pires Beaune, that we have also suggested that we should eventually integrate the DNP into the DSU and the DSR. Unfortunately, for reasons of timing, I do not think it is possible to implement this measure now, as a result of the next revision of the financial indicators: we will have to carry out a very large project over the next two years, and it is precisely within this framework that we will be working on the integration of the DNP into the DSU and the DSR. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable. The following four amendments are of a different nature. Aiming to increase the DSU and the DSR even further, they are "brown trees". Today, however, when we add together the amounts of the DSU, the DSR and the DNP, we reach €6 billion in state equalization allocations. It's a very important level, and even a record level. About 35% of the total allocation is for an equalization goal, and I think they are meeting it. Let us take a department dear to Mr Pupponi, the Seine-Saint-Denis: within the DSU, 23 million euros, or 10% of the total envelope, are intended for this department, of which twenty-one municipalities are eligible for this allocation. The city of Sarcelles currently receives €731 in per capita funding. These are important amounts, which we are looking forward to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u112	That's good, but we have to do even better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u113	However, I do not think that these gaps should be further exacerbated. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u114	Oh! And your good city in Auch, how much does it get from DSU?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u116	Mrs Pires Beaune, your amendment No 1885 is incompatible with the desire for a concerted and shared reform of the DGF with the associations of elected representatives. But you know how much we want to work with you on this. As for the other amendments, which aim to increase the DSU, they are incompatible with the balance that we want to maintain with the lump sum allocation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u117	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u118	With regard to my amendment No 1885 to reform the DNP, I hear your explanation, but the argument is not admissible. Last year, in fact, you initiated a reform of the EPCI DGF; However, this proposal came out of the information report on the overall operating allocation of the communal block that I had presented with Mrs Louwagie, and you took it back to your account without waiting for the overall reform. What is done today will not be done tomorrow. I maintain my amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u119	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u120	Mr Special Rapporteur, we do not ask for alms. Our demand for an increase of about 100 million euros in the DSU and the DSR is far below what the State is taking up with the non-compensation of the exemption from property tax on built properties, the TFPB. In 2018, this exemption amounted to €963 million and was largely for suburban municipalities; However, the State has only compensated EUR 102 million. These municipalities therefore suffer an annual loss of 860 million euros, an amount that the State owes them but does not pay them. Today, we are asking for an increase of EUR 100 million in DSR and DSU, which is far less than that EUR 860 million, and you are telling us that we are already receiving enough funds? Of course, we benefit from equalization, but the amounts we receive do not compensate for the loss associated with the non-compensation of the TFPB exemption! You can't just highlight what you're giving us by forgetting to mention what you're taking away from us. Do the math! We are still awaiting a report from the Government on this issue. Everyone says that non-compensation is dramatic for communities, but no one draws any conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u121	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u122	Amendment No 278 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u123	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor to support Amendment No. 1896.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u124	I see that you are in a hurry, Mr President – perhaps because many of the amendments from the National Association of Mountain Elected Members, ANEM, are not defended – but I would like to spend some time on Amendment No. 1896, which concerns a novelty of this finance bill, which will affect all our fellow citizens in the overseas departments. Historically, DACOM is a closed envelope that evolves at the same speed as DSU, DSR and DNP. However, five years after the creation of this allocation, the DGCL and the CFL compared the evolution of this envelope with that of the common law endowments, and they found a significant gap. It was therefore decided – it is a commitment of the President of the Republic, which the majority obviously wants to hold – to catch up, over five years, with the difference between the actual amount of the DACOM and the amount of the allocations that the overseas communes would have received had they been governed by the common law. The difference was estimated at EUR 55 million, but it turns out that the municipalities of Mayotte could not be included in the calculation due to the lack of available financial data. In agreement with Olivier Serva, chairman of the overseas delegation, I therefore propose that the rate of increase be increased in proportion to the population of Mayotte, so that the equalization gap currently suffered by our overseas citizens can be filled in five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u125	All right! But how will it be financed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u127	Favourable: The Special Rapporteur has explained very well the existing gap and the modalities of its catch-up for Mayotte. We had already done the same for Guyana and for La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u128	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u129	These efforts towards overseas departments and regions are obviously necessary. I am thinking in particular of the department of Mayotte, which is, on many subjects, France's outpost in the Comoros, and which is of particular interest to us. We regret that these communities have been forgotten so far, but we welcome the coming catch-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u130	Amendment No 1871 by Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u131	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 1599.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u132	[[Smile]] Another Lorrain amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u133	In order to ensure effective equalization, in accordance with the rules laid down in article 78, paragraph 49, it is important that the territorial chambers of accounts carry out a regular evaluation of the DACOM, with a view to the proper distribution of appropriations among the municipalities of the overseas departments which benefit from it. This measure is all the more necessary because local public finances are sometimes poorly controlled in the overseas regions: a 2017 Court of Auditors report alerts the financial situation of the overseas departments. As you have understood, this amendment aims at a better assessment of the equalization funds in the overseas countries and territories. In defending it, I would like to stress the need for transparency in public accounts, the importance of the certification of accounts by an independent body, like the regional chambers of accounts – CRC – in metropolitan France, and the interest that parliamentarians and our fellow citizens can have in the issues of sound financial management in the overseas countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u135	My colleague, your concern for transparency is very commendable. However, the reports of the regional chambers of accounts on the finances of the overseas territorial authorities are already quite numerous. On the other hand, you may not know that the Prime Minister entrusted me and Senator Georges Patient with a mission on the finances of the overseas territorial communities, which led us to gather a certain amount of information on the subject and to hold hearings. The report that we are going to submit to the Prime Minister in the coming days or weeks will provide an important insight into the reality of the finances of local and regional authorities; It will include several proposals to accompany the latter, in particular some recommendations on reporting and transparency, and will stress the central role of the regional chambers of accounts. To the extent that your amendment will soon be satisfied, I would ask you to withdraw it; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u137	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u138	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u139	Indeed, Mr Special Rapporteur, I did not have all this information. You see me delighted with the forthcoming publication of your report. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u140	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2121.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u141	This is a technical adjustment...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u142	That's quick to say! This amendment is not neutral!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u143	...necessary for the proper distribution of financial assistance from the State and equalization funds benefiting the municipalities, on the one hand, and the departments, on the other. The lack of a product-sharing rule perceived by the City of Paris, which, as you know, exercises both the competence of a municipality and that of a department, needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u145	This amendment, as well as Amendment No 2122 which we shall be considering in a few moments, has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance. As I trust the Government, I will give it a favourable opinion in my personal capacity. However, this amendment relies on the regulatory power: I would therefore like you, Madam Minister, to follow up on the decisions you will take, as you usually do, so that we can discuss them later in the Finance Committee. Opinion in favour of Amendments Nos 2121 and 2122.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u146	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u147	If I do not dispute the need to address this issue, I am surprised that this amendment is at such an advanced stage in the discussions on the finance bill. It was deposited by the Government at the last moment, although it is not without consequences in view of the amounts involved on closed equalization envelopes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u148	It's a technical arrangement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u149	Certainly, but given the financial scale of the City of Paris, the impact of this amendment on the departmental and communal equalization envelopes is real! I know how serious you are, minister, but the late tabling of such an amendment is still difficult to swallow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u150	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u151	The subject is probably very complex, but we need the figures, minister. Indeed, it is the City of Paris that pays half of the resources of the FSRIF, usually with 330 million to 350 million euros. What Paris will not pay will be financed by the other municipalities; On the other hand, if Paris pays more, the others will pay less. So the question is not neutral! Similarly, the participation of the City of Paris in the FPIC is quite important. The information will therefore have to go back to the Finance Committee; I can understand that these provisions fall within the regulatory area, but things must be done in a transparent way to prevent some municipalities from suffering from on-board effects that are far from neutral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u152	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u153	Really, this question is purely technical. We have already settled it for the metropolis of Lyon, which at the same time exercises the powers of a commune and a department, as well as for the community of Corsica, which at the same time exercises the powers of a department and a region. I repeat, this is a technical adjustment that draws lessons from the creation of the City of Paris on January 1, 2019 – which is why this amendment is now coming – and which is necessary for the proper distribution of the allocations and equalization funds of the communal bloc and the departments. If you wish, I can give you a few figures. In 2018, the tax revenues collected by the City of Paris were 62 per cent as a municipality and 38 per cent as a department. I repeat once again, this is really a technical measure. It is up to the regulatory authority to determine this sharing rule, in accordance with what was provided for in the order of February 8, 2018 for other sharing cases concerning the City of Paris, such as the distribution of actual operating revenues. In this respect, this amendment contains another technical adjustment: the sharing of revenue used in the capping of the department's flat-rate allocation – a novelty introduced in 2019 – will also be provided for by the regulatory authority. These measures will be presented to the CFL in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u154	I call Mr. Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u155	With regard to elements of regulatory power, we have had to ask the Government for them for a year and a half, and they are largely provided to the Commission. This is a technical measure relating to the division between the departmental and municipal levels of the income from the property tax on built properties. The respective percentages are indicated in the explanatory memorandum. All that remains is to know the amount of the endowments, which will allow us to check whether all this is in line with what we voted for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u156	Amendment No 1872 by Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u157	Amendment No 1873 by Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u158	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2122.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u159	This is the same technical amendment, this time for Corsica. As you know, the territorial community of Corsica came from the merger of two departments and one region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u160	When's the same thing for Alsace?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u161	In 2020, for the first time, the revenues of the new community will be taken into account in the calculation of the FB. The share of departmental revenue of the Corsican community will be set at 43.44 % of the envelope. This is a serious amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u163	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u164	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u165	I am very pleased to see serious amendments concerning Corsica arriving in the Chamber. It's changing! I'm kidding. This proposal for a technical amendment, similar to the one you proposed in your previous amendment, is obviously in the right direction. We would simply like to see a broader reflection by the second reading and an extension of this capping mechanism to all departmental and regional arrangements, for example, to the allocation of compensation for the professional tax. We would also like to see the question of actual operating revenues, the RFFs, put back on the carpet by the time of the new reading. Indeed, after the withdrawal of tobacco duties, the transport tax, francization fees and, of course, the provision of territorial continuity, the CSD, the ratio of the community's RFF would no longer be 56.56% but 20%. The direct tax revenue cannot be considered to be part of the actual operating revenue. We would like this grooming work to be carried out as much as possible in cooperation with the Corsican communities so that its effects are truly beneficial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u166	Amendment No 1779 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u167	Amendment No 1874 by Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u168	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2473.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u169	This is a request for a report, which is quite exceptional on our part. But on the eve of a major overhaul following the abolition of the housing tax – some 20 indicators of local endowments will be affected by the change in financial potential – it seems to us extremely important to realize the Government's commitment by investing in us parliamentarians, particularly in the delegation to local authorities and decentralization and in the framework of our work on the appropriations of the mission. We have two years of work ahead of us and we need elements for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u171	We are in favour of this, provided that you accept that the report should be submitted no later than seven months after the enactment of the law, instead of five months, first because the deadline you are proposing seems unrealistic to me, second because it would be preferable to provide this document after the close of the work of the Local Finance Committee, which is usually held in July.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u172	Do you agree with this amendment to replace the word "five" with "seven", Mr. Special Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u174	I should like to inform you that, at the request of the Committee on Finance, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the discussion of Amendments Nos 1782, 1783, 1855, 857, 1856, 858, 2506 and 1789 is reserved. These amendments will be considered after the other amendments to the additional article after Rule 78. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1790.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u175	This amendment aims to make the equalisation of municipalities that do not do so at all today, simply because they are in a "negative DGF" situation, i.e. they no longer have a DGF at all. This is the case of a little more than 400 communes: Puteaux or Levallois-Perret, of course, but also Chassagne-Montrachet in Côte-d'Or for example. Nothing prevents them from making a minimum contribution to the equalization effort; This is technically possible since a levy is already made on their taxes as part of the contribution to the recovery of public finances, the CRFP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u177	You're raising a real problem, dear colleague. Since the introduction of the CRFP, the staffing of 518 municipalities has exceeded the staffing itself, but this has been blocked in 2019. In addition, 338 municipalities now have a zero DGF, which means that about 900 municipalities do not participate in the equalization effort. Without trying to kick, I repeat that we are on the eve of the recasting of a number of indicators, which will allow us to reconsider the subject. Moreover, if we adopt your proposal, it would be to increase the DGF, and therefore public expenditure. But the rule is that the DGF funds the DGF: it is a gilded envelope and we want it to remain so. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u179	You propose to introduce a levy on the taxation of the municipalities concerned by the capping of their flat-rate allocation, but whose DGF would be either null or insufficient to take such an effort. I would point out that this statement does not constitute a contribution from the municipality to its resources but rather a method of financing the dynamism of certain parts of the DGF – for example equalisation allocations – by punctuation on other parts of the DGF – in this case the lump sum allocation. The analogy that you draw with the tax levy for municipalities whose lump sum allocations were insufficient to support their entire PSPF does not seem satisfactory to me. In fact, these are two different things: the PSPC, which is a contribution to community revenues, was charged primarily to the FB and on a secondary basis to taxation. In other words, the lump sum allocation was only a technical vector of the contribution. With the capping of the lump sum allocation, the internal arrangements for financing certain shares of DGF are affected by a levy on other shares of DGF. It would be neither fair nor consistent to take a share of the taxation of certain municipalities to finance the dynamism of equalisation allocations, the guarantees of DGF of new municipalities, etc. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u180	[[Smile]] All this is clear! Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u181	However, there are few of us, and for the most part there are only specialists in public finance. So I think everyone understands! On the contrary, minister, I think it would be moral to apply the provision we are proposing. For municipalities like mine, which increased their taxes in 2018 and 2019, you do not hesitate to levy without compensation the proceeds of this increase, but when it comes to making contribute to the equalization of cities like Puteaux or Levallois-Perret, there you have scruples! Furthermore, Mr. Cazeneuve, if this amendment had had the effect of increasing public expenditure, it would have been declared inadmissible under article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u183	What I wanted to say was that the increase in the DGF should have been increased. With all due respect for you, dear colleague,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u184	And it's shared!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u185	... municipalities that increased their housing tax rates in 2018 and 2019 knew that the compensation would take into account the 2017 rate as it was included in the Public Finance Programming Act. This was said from the beginning, even if the exemption of TH only concerned 80% of tax households.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u186	Precisely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u187	Of course, but the spirit of the measure was known. Moreover, for these communes, this is not a tax recovery, but a mere loss of earnings for a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u188	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u189	The rules of the game have changed. The municipalities I am talking about have few secondary residences and at least 20% social housing. These municipalities have seen 80% of their population exempt almost immediately, unlike municipalities that have the chance to count residents with a slightly higher income, which will therefore continue to pay the housing tax for a few years. The municipalities that chose to increase taxes in 2018 did not do so for pleasure, but because in previous years they had streamlined their operating expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u190	This is the principle of local autonomy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u191	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u192	Our colleague Pires Beaune points out a fundamental point: very rich communes like Puteaux no longer participate in national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u193	Oh, yes! They don't stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u194	This injustice will have to be brought to an end one day. As long as we remain within the DGF envelope, they are no longer involved in this solidarity. Our colleague's question is therefore relevant. Let us therefore try to find a collective solution by next year so that these municipalities are also called upon to contribute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u195	Amendment No 1880 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u196	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1853, 1852 and 1854, which can be presented together. Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u197	Through these three texts, we wish to change the way in which the proceeds of paid parking and fines are distributed. Recall that in 2016, the Government had an amendment passed in response to the reform of paid parking. As a result, the municipalities and associations of francilians with more than 10000 inhabitants were taken 75% of the proceeds of the fines they received, to the benefit of the transport union of Île-de-France and the region. In order to ensure that these two entities do not lose revenue, the amount of the proceeds of the fines was even frozen on the resource collected in 2018. This freeze penalized the municipalities, which have become real adjustment variables. Some have seen the proceeds of fines, which so far represented a significant contribution, reduce as the skin of grief. Let us cite the example of Drancy, a commune dear to President Lagarde – author of the three present amendments – whose product increased from 300,000 to 2,000 euros between 2017 and 2018. Other municipalities were taken from the difference compared to the frozen amount from the twelfths of taxation. Amendment No 1853 is intended to abolish the principle of a partial levy for the benefit of the transport union of Ile-de-France and the region, while Amendment No 1852 proposes to reduce the rate of this levy from 75% to 50%. Amendment No 1854 sets out another solution: the abolition of the guaranteed amount for the Ile-de-France transport union and the region, as well as the deletion of the reference to the resource received in 2018. Once again, the current functioning of the communes makes them an adjustment variable and imposes drastic reductions in allocations, or even levies on their other tax resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u199	These amendments have been tabled in committee but have not been studied. However, the committee had given an unfavourable opinion on their principle. I would remind you that the transport union of Île-de-France is no longer called STIF, as the amendments still mention, but Île-de-France Mobilitys. I have looked at his budget, but I am not in a position to assess the financial consequences of adopting such measures. This is the only reason why I cannot give the amendments a favourable opinion: their impact could be significant. In addition, the proceeds of fines directly abound the investment budget of the ex-STIF. This aspect is not insignificant, given that since 2012, Île-de-France Mobilitys has made increased use of borrowing rather than its own resources, whether from self-financing, tax revenue or investment revenue. This is a problem and this argument reinforces my unfavorable opinion. On the other hand, I suggest that we work on this, because Île-de-France Mobilitys may need important additional resources to cover its future investments. We could also study the situation of the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u201	My opinion is also unfavorable. Indeed, the current mechanism is the result of a concerted effort with all the associations concerned. Île-de-France Mobilitys and the Île-de-France region benefit from some of the police fines imposed in Île-de-France, which allows them to finance public transport in the region. This product is calculated on the basis of the fines imposed in each municipality in the region. The decriminalization of paid parking would have resulted in a significant loss of revenue for both entities. For this reason, a clearing mechanism was developed in 2016 as part of a broad consultation process, before entering into force in 2019. The GART – Grouping of Transport Authorities – has been particularly involved in this work. It is not possible to revert to this mechanism after a single year of application. Note that your amendments would deprive Île-de-France Mobilitys of EUR 139 million, and the Île-de-France region of EUR 69 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u202	I have before me five amendments, Nos 284, 283, 282, 281 and 280, which can be presented together. Mr François Pupponi has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u203	They aim to transform the city's political endowment into a free budget, whereas it is now the equivalent of a grant distributed by the prefects. Several back-up amendments propose a shift in this allocation, so that municipalities with the most QPV – the city's priority neighbourhoods – are eligible as a matter of priority. We would thus avoid certain effects of bounty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u205	After analysis, it was decided that the VDD would remain an investment allocation. As a result, it will not be integrated into any other staffing, in this case the DSU. Without repeating in detail the arguments I made earlier, I maintain that the VPD is useful. It deserves to be maintained in its current structure, but perhaps it will increase in the future, if this is the will of parliamentarians. In accordance with my opinion last year, I am against these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u206	Amendment No 279 by Mr François Pupponi is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u207	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u208	In theory, the allocation of support for local investment can be allocated to the work carried out by the municipalities to double the classes of schools, according to a government measure. In fact, as the DSIL is at the discretion of the prefects, it is granted to some communes but denied to others. My amendment aims to make it clear that it should focus on the duplication of classes. Otherwise, municipalities in great difficulty will not be able to accommodate schoolchildren in better conditions, as requested by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u210	Mr Pupponi, you are raising a matter of importance, which is a real priority. However, the current legislation already fully meets your request. Thus, the instruction of 7 March 2018, intended for regional prefects, makes the duplication of classes an operation eligible for the DSIL under the main thematic investment priorities. According to its terms, the DSIL must "in particular make it possible to finance the work necessary for the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 located in the REP+ zone", with the objective "to prepare the school year in the best possible conditions. The prefects, whom we have heard on this subject, have confirmed that priority is actually given to these operations in the realization of investment budgets. In Seine-Saint-Denis, for example, DSIL and DPV have financed investments in school real estate worth 50 million euros in two years. Your amendment therefore seems to me to be already satisfactory. I ask that it be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u212	I confirm that the creation, transformation and renovation of school buildings have been made a thematic priority and included in the list of operations eligible for the DSIL. The corresponding instruction, which concerns both the DETR and the DSIL, was signed by the minister responsible for local authorities and myself in 2019. It directs the prefects to pay particular attention to the duplication of classes in the REP and REP+ zones. In fact, a special effort has been made: EUR 19 million has been spent on this work, including EUR 7 million from the DSIL for 54 projects, EUR 5.8 million from the DETR for 125 projects, and EUR 6.3 million from the DVV for 46 projects. With regard to the work made necessary by lowering the age of compulsory education, I do not yet have the opportunity to identify a significant number of projects with the information provided. This is probably due to the fact that 98 per cent of 3-year-olds are already in school, so school development is rarely needed. I request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u213	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u214	It would be interesting to know the number of projects that had been submitted, beyond those funded by DSIL, DETR and DPV. What was the overall need, and how high was it satisfied? Is there a significant gap between the will of the municipalities to implement the duplication of classes and the allocations granted to them for that purpose? These answers would allow us to know whether the funds available are sufficient. Pending these points, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u215	Amendment No 1788 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u216	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2472, as corrected by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u217	It aims to deconcentrate the management of the FARU – emergency rehousing aid funds – so that the files are handled directly by the prefects and not by the central administration. This amendment reflects the Government's commitment to deconcentration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u219	This amendment has not been discussed in committee, but I am in favour of it on a personal basis, just as I am in favour, more generally, of deconcentration towards the prefects. I have no doubt that he will receive general approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u220	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 860, 1688 and 286, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 860 is the subject of Subamendments Nos 2325, 1984 and 1987. Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u221	I propose that it be defended by the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u222	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u223	As you know, last year we created a Natura 2000 allocation. This year, the Finance Committee adopted a proposal to extend this allocation – renamed the "Support Grant to Municipalities for Biodiversity" – to the hearts of national parks and marine natural parks. The amendment proposes to slightly amend the criteria for Natura 2000 allocation, in line with those of the SRD regarding financial potential. In addition, incentive funding would be allocated to the core national parks and marine natural parks. The adoption of such measures would double the allocation from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million. This amendment follows on from the report by our colleague Daniel Labaronne on rural areas and responds more precisely to his proposal No 7. It is also based on the work of Ms. Bérangère Abba as Chair of the Study Group "National Parks, Regional Natural Parks and Protected Areas". I am personally in favour of sub-amendment No 1987 to the latter concerning new national parks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u224	I call Mr Pupponi to support sub-amendment No. 2325 in Amendment No. 860.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u225	It aims to lower the population threshold of the beneficiary municipalities from 10000 to 5000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u226	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, in support of Subamendment No. 1984, to Amendment No. 860, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u227	By this amendment, we propose to limit the benefit of the second part of the allocation, intended for the park cores, to the communes that are signatories to the charter of the national park, by definition members of the area of accession.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u228	Mrs Bérangère Abba, in support of Subamendment No. 1987, to Amendment No. 860, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u229	It aims to double, for five years, the amount of the second part of the allocation for municipalities where all or part of the land is included in a national park core established for less than five years. Thus, these municipalities could fully appropriate their territorial plans and implement their national park charter by understanding it not as a constraint, but as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u230	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 1688.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u231	It is the same as that of the Committee on Finance, except that, like sub-amendment No 2325 defended by Mr Pupponi, it provides for the setting of 5000 instead of 10000 the population threshold below which a municipality would be eligible for the allocation relating to natural parks. It is in these communities that the need for investment in Natura 2000 areas is greatest; This is where funding must be concentrated. If I understand correctly, the amendment by the Committee on Finance is more likely to be adopted than the wording we are proposing; If Subamendment No 2325 is adopted, I may withdraw Amendment No 1688.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u232	Amendment No 286 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie is being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments and sub-amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u233	The committee supports Amendment No 860 and Subamendments Nos 1984 and 1987; against others. We believe that the amendment advocated by the rapporteur-general is in the right direction: that of greening as much as possible the investment of the communities. This movement is in line with the objectives of the DETR and the DSIL, and continues today with the expansion of this endowment created two years ago, which will support municipalities with projects related to national parks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u235	We support Amendment No 860, which proposes to create a new allocation of support for municipalities for the protection of biodiversity. Last year, we had already financially assisted the municipalities of the Natura 2000 network; the amendment is consistent with this policy, justified by the fact that zoning creates burdens for the municipalities. The sizing proposed by the rapporteur-general, namely EUR 10 million, is both sustainable and significant from the point of view of each beneficiary municipality. I would like to make it clear that funding for this allocation will have to be done through the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities" and not by the DGF; We will see it later when we read in the Senate. As regards the sub-amendments, we are against sub-amendment No 2325; We ask Messrs. Cazeneuve and Jerretie the withdrawal of No 1984; We are in favour of Mrs Abba's sub-amendment No 1987.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u236	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u237	I would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur-general for his initiative and for the amendment he has defended. But since we are talking about greening politics, we must also not forget to bluish it! While I understand that the measure covers marine natural parks, I would like to point out that the Overseas Territories with their own fiscal powers, such as French Polynesia or New Caledonia, are also interested and concerned by this political orientation. However, I am not sure that the municipalities in these territories will be able to benefit from the proposal under discussion; I'm even convinced that I don't. It's no big deal – we can deal with this later – but it would be good if, in the same momentum, we worked together on an additional allocation for the ultramarine communes. New Caledonia has the largest French marine natural park, the second largest in the world, which covers almost all the communes in the community. On several occasions, during the budget discussion, I tried, unfortunately without success, to re-evaluate the appropriations of the French Coral Reef Initiative, IFRECOR, which seeks to protect coral reefs and associated ecosystems. The amendment by the Committee on Finance, which I will naturally support, gives me the opportunity to recall the special situation, both fiscal and environmental, of the municipalities of New Caledonia and Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u238	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u239	I do not understand the logic of refusing to integrate the communes between 5000 and 10,000 inhabitants, who are still those who...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u240	But they are included in the device!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u241	Yes, they're in there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u242	You're the one who wants to exclude them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u243	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u244	You reject Mrs Dubie's sub-amendment, which proposes lowering the threshold. It is surprising not to want to include the municipalities most concerned; Indeed, spending is concentrated in the least densely populated territories. At the same time, you agree with Mrs Abba's amendment, which proposes to double the individual allocation for municipalities located in a newly created national park core, or recently included in a park. These municipalities may not be ready to receive these amounts; For the first five years, the recipe may be useless because it is not necessarily at the beginning that the most expenses are incurred. I do not understand the logic of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u245	I call Mr. Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur. Light us up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u246	Several remarks. I withdrew an amendment similar to that of Bérangère Abba, which proposed a shorter period: three years. Indeed, we must know how to find compromises, and the one we have achieved is not bad. On the other hand, I regret that the decree was published yesterday or the day before yesterday, that is, before we voted on the funds, because in order to build a device, it is better to know what will be in it. Fortunately, the ministry, Bérangère Abba and Joël Giraud worked together, because otherwise we could not have completed the process. So I want to warn you about the method: it seems to me important, if we were to make improvements to the nature park system or to some type of staffing, that everyone work together in a more serene manner than we did this time. Finally, we land well, but the problem deserves to be pointed out. Then I think that as far as the threshold of 5000 or 10,000 inhabitants is concerned, we are all wrong. Last year, things were well targeted; That's why we don't want to come back this year. It was necessary to include all the elements relating to the allocation of support to municipalities for the protection of biodiversity. Mr Dunoyer, the arrival of the support allocation for the municipalities for the protection of biodiversity, which last year was called the Natura 2000 allocation, may be the first step towards a new operation of the allocations to the local authorities. It is probably through this process that we will build the future of communities, taking into account their diversity. [[Smile]] I don't know if I've enlightened the president, but I've enlightened myself, which is not bad already!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u247	That's the point! The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u248	Mr Schellenberger, the population threshold of the Natura 2000 allocation is currently set at 10000 inhabitants and, similarly, all municipalities of 0 to 10000 inhabitants would be affected by the committee's amendment. No. 1688, which you have supported, would like to return to this perimeter, excluding the communes of 5000 to 10,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u249	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u250	Your amendment reduces the scope of the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u251	It focuses on the municipalities that spend the most.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u252	The ones who need it the most!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u253	For example, Mr. Acquaviva, I would not like Corte to be excluded from the staffing perimeter!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u254	It's always clearer when the municipalities are mentioned! Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u255	Minister, if we leave the 10000 population threshold, given the current level of staffing, there will be very little impact on small communities. For example, last year, the municipality of Terroles in the Pyrénées massif received only 193 euros, as the municipalities are mentioned. Since the envelope is relatively small, if the scope of the eligible communes is too wide, inefficient spraying is obtained. The advantage of limiting the scheme to municipalities of less than 5000 inhabitants is to allow smaller municipalities, mainly mountain ones, which have the most needs and bear the most costs, to benefit from a larger envelope. It is a choice: to concentrate aid on small municipalities, mainly mountain ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u256	Here, the goal is to concentrate aid on the mountain!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u257	I call Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u258	Let's have a little nibble! Last year's rule has not yet been assessed, and you want to change it, while you always tell us that communities need stability and visibility. Your amendment would exclude municipalities located mostly outside mountain areas, but I do not see why this should be resolved: they are part of the Natura 2000 network and for our environment and our ecological transition objectives, they are at least as important as the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u259	We don't agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u260	Attention, Subamendment No 1984 is a complicated case since it is the subject of a favourable opinion by the committee and an unfavourable opinion by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u261	A request for the withdrawal of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u262	[[Smile]] That's the same thing, Minister! The request for withdrawal is the polite means of serving an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u263	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1791.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u264	It aims to return to the total amount of the national fund for equalisation of intercommunal and communal resources. The envelope of this horizontal equalisation fund, which was created under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy – in the last draft finance law of his mandate, examined in 2011 – was originally expected to achieve a target expressed as a percentage of actual operating revenues – some 1.2 billion euros, had the provisions of the PLF been respected for 2012. It turns out, however, that under François Hollande's mandate, the state endowments to the communes have been reduced and the map of the intercommunalities has been revised. In 2016, we decided to block FPIC's revenues at $1 billion. Today, the map is stabilized; It would therefore be logical for the increase to resume as foreseen in the PLF for 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u265	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u266	As a result of the reports provided by the Government, we had planned to abound the ICCF, but the uncertainties and the removal of the housing tax force us to postpone this decision. We have blocked the resources of the fund to give it stability; This also reduces the expenditure for the municipalities that contribute to it. Indeed, the amendments relating to the FPIC still present a dichotomy between those who want to receive more and those who want to contribute less; For the last two years – and even more as it dates back to 2016, so from the previous mandate – the choice has been made to block the fund at 1 billion. With regard to the evolution of the ICCF, I therefore maintain the same opinion as last year, but I hope that it can be considered at the end of next year. It seems to me necessary: Mr Pupponi mentioned earlier the low contribution to equalisation of municipalities which are rather less in difficulty; The best remedy for this problem is probably the ICCF, because according to reports and field findings, the equalization it allows is the most effective. Even if I give an unfavorable opinion to the amendment, I remain a strong supporter of the FPIC and think about how to make it evolve next year. I therefore ask the Government, too, to work together to reach a solution by the next financial law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u268	The Government is also opposed to this amendment. The question of the amount of the ICCF may, if necessary, be raised after the tax reform. If at that time the map showing the differences in fiscal wealth shows that a correction is necessary, an increase in equalisation can be envisaged within the framework of the Committee on Local Finance, in conjunction with the delegations to the territorial authorities of the two chambers. I therefore confirm to you, Mr Special Rapporteur, that we are going to work on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u269	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u270	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u271	The more your measures accumulate, the more I oppose any evolution of the ICCF if it is to further develop horizontal equalization. Indeed, we are seeking the best balance between horizontal equalization between communities, provided by the ICPF, and vertical equalization provided by the Government through, among other things, the DGF, the DSU, the DSR. However, since the fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities is reduced, it is not possible at the same time to increase their contribution to horizontal equalisation – it is completely inconsistent. If one follows a vertical logic involving compensations, endowments, one must concentrate the equalization effort on vertical revenues and not on horizontal revenues. We cannot impose equalization obligations on communities whose fiscal autonomy, I repeat, is reduced. Fortunately, this amendment will be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u272	We're going to work on the FPIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u273	I do not argue that I should not be working on the ICCF and I do not claim that it does not pose any problems in its present form, but if the idea is to increase the burden of horizontal equalization even though the tax autonomy of the communities is being reduced, it is, I insist, absurd.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u274	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u275	Since the Special Rapporteur and the Minister propose that we work on the ICCF, I withdraw the amendment. I would point out, however, that the Government's reports on the ICPF – including the one communicated to us this morning – show that the individual contribution tends to decrease. That was already the case last year, and it will still be the case this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u276	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1868.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u277	With the planned removal of the housing tax, the fiscal autonomy of the local authorities will be greatly, if not completely, reduced. With this amendment, we want equalization between them to be strengthened. We therefore propose that the FPIC be abound, to the tune of EUR 100 million, with a new external revenue which is no longer just a redistribution of the autonomous tax product of the communities. Second, in determining beneficiaries, we advocate the adoption of a new criterion, the median tax income of residents, which better reflects inequalities between communities than the average tax income.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u279	I won't go back to everything I said about the FPIC. However, I would point out that 30% of the communities have already entered into an internal agreement on the ICPF, which demonstrates the usefulness of this fund and the fact that we can reach agreement within an ICPF. However, it cannot be denied that there is often a large disparity in wealth within an EPCI; the first objective is that through a particular programme everyone contributes to the planning of the territory. We cannot allow things to change without this type of equalization, which we know is useful because it reduces inequalities by about 13%, which is not nothing. The minister then proposed that we review the criteria for the ICCF and the appropriate amount. It does not seem to me good to have a single recipe of EUR 100 million, as you propose. It is known that the departments, for the past two or three years, have become increasingly important equalization funds because there is a disparity between rich and poor departments. Thus, we intend to work on the ICCF and other equalization elements. I express an unfavorable opinion because we said that this year we would not touch the ICCF because, once again, the Government and national representation are ready to work on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u280	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1775.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u281	If I consistently defend this amendment, I have worked more on the issue of the seven EPCIs with a derogation. I invite you to listen to me carefully because the situation that I am going to mention concerns almost all departments and should make you think about it. A few years ago, it was decided to apply a derogation to reduce the aggregate tax potential – PFA – of certain establishments, in this case seven EPCIs resulting from the transformation of a new agglomeration union – SAN. However, this scheme has a deflagrating effect on the FPIC since all but one of these EPCI contributed to the FPIC in 2012 and all of them have been net beneficiaries – for large sums – since 2013. I will give you some examples which I hope you will find significant. The Grand Paris Sud Seine-Essonne-Sénart community has a per capita financial potential of €685.86 and yet receives some €9 million from the FPIC. The financial potential of the agglomeration of Cergy-Pontoise is 702 euros per capita and this EPCI receives 5 million euros from the FPIC. I now take the example of a small community of communes in my home, a rural community that has less financial potential than the two EPCIs I have just mentioned: yet it is a net contributor to the FPIC of 134000 euros. And I just found the case of Haute-Corrèze community, which is also a net contributor for 287000 euros. I wish I had the time to check it out, but I'm sure this situation applies to almost every department. How do you want local elected officials to have confidence in our equalization mechanisms when such injustices prevail?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u282	On Amendment No 1775, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u283	We come back to a subject that we discussed two years ago, if my memories are good. Ms Pires-Beaune and Mr Giraud are constant, indeed, in their desire to abolish the weightings – even the advantages, let's say the word – that benefit the seven communities of agglomerations from SAN.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u284	Privileges!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u285	I prefer the word "benefits", more sober. If the two fervent Members I have just mentioned pleaded for the immediate abrogation of these advantages, some would like to see the whistle device out over ten years. I then proposed – and we adopted – a four-year exit to be completed in 2023. I suggest that we stay there not because Ms Pires-Beaune would not be right on the merits, since the examples she cited were very concrete, but because, since this year, the communities in question have been less aware of the fact that percentage changes are being calculated. We already measure the first effects of whistle output since, for the five EPCIs you did not mention, the variation is negative. However, this variation will evolve over the next three years, and at the end of four years there will be a zero change, marking the return to ordinary law. I recall that the seven NDS in question – Cergy-Pontoise, Saint-Quentin en Yvelines, Porte de l'Isère, Vallée de la Marne, Grand Paris Sud Seine-Essonne-Sénart, Val d'Europe Agglomeration, Métropole d'Aix-Marseille-Provence – have certainly obtained advantages – according to some – of "privileges" – but that we had an agreement with all the communities for a "clean" exit of the derogatory mechanism, which implies not to revisit this issue every year. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u287	On the substance, we hear you, Mrs Pires-Beaune, and your point of view is so justified that, as the Special Rapporteur has just pointed out, the original 2018 Finance Act introduced a mechanism to exit this derogation regime, with the weighting increasing from 0.7 in 2020 to 0.8 in 2021 and 0.9 in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u288	There's the exit guarantee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u289	Rather than a whistle output of the device, you offer an immediate exit. However, we must pay careful attention to the balance between the need for a return to common law, budgetary sustainability and the visibility of the arrangements for the territories concerned. We therefore believe that it would not be reasonable to reconsider a decision taken recently even if, on the substance, again, we agree with your analysis since our majority has put in place the mechanism for exiting from the emergency regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u290	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u291	I will take an example: in a public territorial establishment in Greater Paris, two communes, Clichy-sous-Bois and Montfermeil, received 500,000 euros from the FPIC and the municipalities on the other side paid 8 million euros from the same FPIC. These municipalities have been associated: the richest no longer contribute to the FPIC, while those of Clichy-sous-Bois and Montfertil continue to receive 500,000 euros. So the rich municipalities saved 8 million euros a year! They are not asked to pay more, but to contribute a minimum! This kind of anomaly can be rectified, unbearable injustices. While these wealthy municipalities no longer pay those 8 million euros, small intercommunalities outside Île-de-France pay 200000 or 300,000 euros, which are huge sums for them. These injustices cannot therefore continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u292	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u293	I support Mrs Pires-Beaune's amendment – indeed, I too am quite constant on the subject. Mr Pupponi has just given the example of poor communes in the Île-de-France region, which, in the end, are being used for the benefit of much richer communes. We are facing the same situation in all rural areas. My department, which is 100% mountain, has small intercommunalities, some of which are taken under FPIC, while the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence receives 45 million euros, still under FPIC. These imbalances must be corrected and we have the means to do so. I know that we have reached a compromise – but a compromise that is increasingly difficult to swallow when we see rural or poor communities, as Mr. Pupponi has just shown, taken for the benefit of metropolises that are touching considerable sums, all because one day the NDS formed around the pond of Berre...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u294	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u295	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u296	I did not intend to speak on this amendment, but I am obliged to do so because it is a question of the community of agglomeration of Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, which is a large part of my constituency. I fully agree with the opinion of the Special Rapporteur and the Minister. We cannot, on the pretext that other communes consider themselves poorer, suffocate these communes by putting an end to the compromise invented to allow them to gradually leave a derogation. You say that are only targeted the communities of agglomeration that group rich communes, but is Trappes a rich commune?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u297	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u298	Are La Verrière, Élancourt and Plaisir rich communes? I can tell you more. Agglomeration communities do not systematically include the richest municipalities. This is true for some of them, but I can tell you that this derogatory device helps some others who need it to function properly. I urge our House to reject Amendment No 1775, the adoption of which would suffocate the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u299	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u300	I'm afraid Mrs Hai didn't quite understand what I said. The ICPF is a horizontal equalization fund: communities fund other communities. In this context, the least we can do would be for rich communities to finance poor communities, not the other way around. The contribution to the FPIC of the community of communes to which I was referring at the moment, and whose financial potential is the lowest among all those I cited, increased by 30% between 2018 and 2019. I don't think this situation is right. Minister, I understand your reasoning about the need for stability, but I can no longer follow you when stability almost perpetuates privileges. Let me make a little history. In a previous finance law, we had already returned to this derogation, but that year, a few days before Christmas, a socialist elected member of one of the seven inter-communal groups concerned – I will not quote – tabled a bill to restore the privileges to which we had terminated, and this text was adopted in a few days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u301	[[Smile]] We want names!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u302	I call Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u303	Mrs Pires Beaune, I understand what you are telling us, but we have inherited a certain situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u304	Have courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u305	... and, in 2017, we made the decision to reduce the benefit previously granted in four years. There is therefore a real movement towards the extinction of this advantage: even if we are talking about stability, that does not mean that things are not evolving. On the other hand, we must give local and regional authorities stable rules and visibility. There is respect for communities and elected officials. Let's not change the rules every year, even if you can sometimes think that you have to quickly put up with a good idea or fix injustices! Let us be careful not to play sorcerer apprentices!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u306	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1775.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u307	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 13 Against 22
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u308	Amendment No 1785 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u309	Identical amendments Nos 468 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 1494 by Mr Charles de Courson are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u310	Amendment No 469 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u311	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor to support Amendment No. 1888.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u312	Since 2013, the national fund for equalisation of intercommunal and communal resources has included an exit guarantee for territorial units composed of EPCI with own taxation and their municipalities which cease to be eligible. The following year they received an allocation equal to half of the payment received in the previous year. The implementation of the departmental schemes for intercommunal cooperation is accompanied by a consolidation of the EPCIs as of 1 January 2017, which has changed fairly significantly the aggregate fiscal potential balance of these territorial groupings. Those who stopped being eligible felt penalized. As a result, it was decided to introduce a gradual exit scheme with compensation in 2018 of 85% of the amounts collected in 2017, then in 2019 of 70% of the amounts collected in 2018. But there are no plans for 2020, except of course for the territorial groups that have again become eligible for the FPIC. The aim of the amendment is to create an additional step allowing the territories concerned – 175 of the 1200 EPCIs with own taxation, or 15% of the total – to benefit, in 2020, from half of the amount collected in 2019. This is not neutral for them as they would receive EUR 24.5 million, or 50% of the 49 million they had received in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u313	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u314	The Finance Committee has not considered this amendment, which aims to return to ordinary law by taking a third step. In principle, since we are moving towards common law, I see no problem. I am eager to hear the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u315	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u316	Mr Bru, you are proposing the harmonisation of the regime applicable to territories which cease to be eligible for the FPIC in 2020 with those territories which continue to be ineligible and which received a guarantee in 2019. I am in favour of your proposal because, in its current wording, Article L. 2336-6 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities provides for two separate guarantee schemes. One concerns inter-communal schemes which cease to be eligible in 2020; the other is related to intercommunal assemblies which continue to be ineligible and which have received an exit guarantee since at least 2019. If a guarantee of 50% of the payment received in 2019 is provided for the former, the latter will not receive any payment. Aware of the co-existence of these two situations, the Government is in favour of harmonization and therefore a guarantee of 50 per cent of the 2019 payment for the latter. In our view, this is a balanced compromise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u317	I call Mr. Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u318	The committee has not voted, I have said, but after hearing the minister, I am expressing a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u319	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 861 and 302. Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 861.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u320	I will let Mr Pupponi introduce his amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u321	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 302.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u322	The FSRIF is a horizontal equalization fund in Île-de-France that allows the richest municipalities in the territory to remain in solidarity with the poorest municipalities. For years, the resources of this fund have been revalued by €20 million per year, but this increase had been frozen last year. This year, the Finance Committee has been pleased to adopt one of my amendments, which makes it possible to return to the annual increase of EUR 20 million in the resources of the FSRIF.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u323	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u324	It's a wisdom advice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u325	Thank you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u326	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u327	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2471.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u328	It aims to merge the levies made under the three equalization funds between departments based on the DMTO – transfer fees for consideration – levied by the departmental councils. Following a proposal by the ADF – Assembly of the French Departments – the Government is presenting an important simplification measure. The three funds concerned are the national equalization fund of the DMTO, the FSD – solidarity fund of the departments – and the FSID – interdepartmental support fund of the departments. Our objective is to simplify existing equalization arrangements; increase the amount of equalisation from EUR 1.5 billion to EUR 1.6 billion in 2020; to reduce the burden on the majority of departments – especially those with an intermediate wealth indicator – and finally to concentrate on the most attractive territories, i.e. those best equipped with DMTO. Simplification ensures readability. It strengthens solidarity between departments, as well as contributions from the most attractive territories, i.e. those that receive the most DMTO, for the benefit of the poorest. By supporting this amendment, which was the result of a proposal voted and submitted by the Assembly of the French Departments, the Government responds to a request from the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u329	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u330	It was not presented to the Committee on Finance, but in my personal capacity, I am in favour of it because it is in line with what we want to do: it allows for simplification, it responds to the request of the departmental elected representatives – since ADF is at the origin – and it strengthens equalisation and justice between departments. He has everything to please! I would point out that it supplements, in a way, Amendment No. 3057, adopted during the examination of the first part of the finance bill, which makes it possible to allocate EUR 250 million to sustain various support funds for the departments. I would add that I prefer the dialogue as it is being established between the majority and the departments to the attitude, which I want to condemn, of a number of chairmen of departmental councils whose behaviour towards the minister did not respect our republican traditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u331	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u332	I am rather in favour of the amendment, but I believe that before we talk about equalisation, we must come back to the question of fiscal autonomy. The department is already one of the communities with the lowest fiscal autonomy. It will be further reduced with the shift towards the communal block of the departmental share of the property tax. The same logic applies to the regions, but it is the end of the fiscal power of the regions and the departments, which does not prevent equalisation mechanisms from weighing on the residual fiscal power of the departments. I do not say that they are sometimes not necessary – the level of DMTO is so different depending on the territory that it is necessary to act properly – but this introduces a bias if one wonders about the role of horizontal taxation. I think we should work on this. It also seems to me that the equalization of the DMTO is weakened by the extreme volatility of this resource. Will this amendment solve the problem? In any case, we find that departments have great difficulty managing changes from year to year. They are heavily contributing one year because they collected a large amount of DMTO the previous year, and they are no longer contributing the following year, as a result of the decrease in this tax revenue. DMTO taxation clearly suffers from a problem of visibility, for which the Government is not responsible and which is due to the specific dynamics of the territories, faced with different situations depending on the years. It is important to monitor the impact of these variations on equalization mechanisms, especially in difficult times for departments. We have to prevent them from robbing each other...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u333	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u334	Mr President, I would ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting in order to speak with you and the leaders of the groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u335	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u336	The meeting was resumed. I call Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u337	Mr Schellenberger took the opportunity offered by Amendment No 1471 to question the financial and fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities. First of all, I would like to remind you that it responds to a wish of the Association des départements de France. He therefore deserves support. Moreover, it should be made clear that the fiscal and financial autonomy of the municipalities will not change after the reform of the Government. It remains at the same level to the nearest euro. This is important for citizens, who can thus observe in practice what the local tax they pay is for. As far as intercommunalities and departments are concerned, their fiscal autonomy is indeed reduced, but their financial autonomy, as defined by the Constitutional Council, does not change. As you know, the Constitutional Council has issued an opinion on the subject, but perhaps you think you know better than he does what is happening... It is true, I recognise, that for the departments, the freedom to vote of the rate no longer exists. Their fiscal autonomy – which by the way has no constitutional value – is therefore reduced. From this point of view, they are approaching the situation of the regions, which have lost the power to vote on the rates. Do not the regions nevertheless benefit from public policies? Do they not invest and are their actions not subject to the judgment of the citizens? Obviously, I do! The situation is not as dramatic as you put it, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u338	I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that we still have some 50 amendments to consider. I therefore invite you to be more concise in your interventions. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u339	I will be brief, Mr. President, but I need to re-establish certain truths. While financial autonomy and fiscal autonomy are different, they are intimately linked. Personally, I would not defend the tax autonomy of the EPCIs, which are not local and regional authorities, and therefore cannot claim to benefit from a principle that is consubstantial to them. The departments and regions, on the other hand, are local authorities. However, the 2003 Constitutional Council's jurisprudence has set an acceptable rate of fiscal autonomy...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u340	Financial autonomy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u341	... departments, but this fiscal autonomy has deteriorated considerably since, through successive reforms, to the point of being close to nothing. I think it's a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u342	It is about financial autonomy and not fiscal autonomy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u343	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 288 and 1878. I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u344	I leave it to Mr Castellani to introduce him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u345	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1878.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u346	It is identical to that of Mr. François Pupponi and concerns the regional resources equalization fund. It is based on a particularly complex formula and sometimes leads to paradoxal results. For example, Corsica is penalized because of a faster than average change in its tax resource, even though it is much weaker than in other regions. The purpose of the amendment is to correct this anomaly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u348	The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on the three amendments relating to Corsica. This region contributes in the same way as others to the regional resource equalization fund. The principle behind the creation of this evolving fund is that of equality between regions. We're lucky to have Jacqueline Gourault with us today. She is familiar with the Corsican question and will certainly provide us with other useful explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u349	Minister of Alsace and Corsica!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u350	And the Basque Country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u351	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u352	We cannot accept this amendment in the name of the principle of equality. Corsica is certainly an island region, but it is not an ultramarine region. It is subject to the same system of allocation of levies and payments as other metropolitan areas. To exempt it would lead to the postponement of the levies on the other regions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u353	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u354	Without opening the debate on the principle of equality, is it not a principle of egalitarianism? The poorest region contributes to the richest regions since the contribution to the fund is calculated on the basis of the rate of growth of tax revenues and not on the basis of real resources. Corsica is poorer than the other regions, but it contributes every year – 800,000 euros in 2016, 1.4 million in 2017 – to this fund for equalization. That tie, you can keep it! She's not a Republican!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u355	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u356	I agree, of course, with my colleague Jean-Félix Acquaviva. The minister said that Corsica was not an ultramarine region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u357	She's not ultra-vosgian!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u358	It is not ultramarine under the law, but geographically. If you doubt it, go to Toulon or Marseille to reach Corsica on foot. You will see that this will be difficult! I am not saying this to make humor of four sous, but to make you understand that the geographical situation of Corsica, as well as all its other peculiarities, would deserve to be inscribed in the law. That is what we need to discuss, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u359	On Amendment No 299, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u360	The report of the General Inspectorate of Finance entitled "For a Corsican Economy of the 21st Century" was commissioned by the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, following the visit of the President of the Republic to Corsica in 2018. It recommends that a fraction of VAT be substituted for the tobacco consumption rights currently levied by the Corsican community and intended to assume the burden of national roads, transferred in 1993. The first reason is ethical: it is a question of preventing consumer rights on tobacco, and therefore the evolution of cancer – if you allow me to do so – from continuing to finance our roads. The second is financial: even if the price elasticity of these rights is currently favourable, so that resources are increasing, there is much to bet that the convergence of prices between Corsica and the continent will have the effect – and it is happy – of reducing consumption and thus reducing tax revenues. The aim of this amendment is therefore to ensure the sustainability of Corsica's fiscal resources and to avoid, in the long run, that its budget is unbalanced for historical reasons due to the decentralization movement in favour of the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u361	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u362	I shall return briefly to the previous amendment. It was true that the contribution to the Regional Resource Equalization Fund was linked to the growth of those resources. The calculation criteria may be critical, but it is entirely legitimate to apply them to Corsica, which is part of a whole. The committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion on Amendment No 299. I would add that amending a provision voted in the first part would, in my view, pose a legal problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u363	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u364	You are indeed proposing, Mr Acquaviva, to replace a share of VAT with the consumption duties on tobacco collected by the community of Corsica. A similar amendment, as Mr Jerretie has just pointed out, has already been discussed in the first part of the PLF and the position of the Government has obviously not changed since then. I would remind you that this tobacco tax generates an important dynamic for the community of Corsica, since the annual increase in revenues was on average 5.2% from 2011 to 2018. This dynamic is superior, I would point out, to that of VAT over the same period. Such substitution would therefore be detrimental to the community. Moreover, it already collects a fraction of VAT in lieu of the overall operating allocation, in accordance with Article 149 of the Finance Act for 2017. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u365	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u366	Madam Minister, if the tobacco tax product has been increasing at this rate for years in Corsica, it is because the price is 25% lower than on the continent and many tourists, at the end of the summer, leave with bags full of cartons of cigarettes. But unfortunately, the cancer rate is also increasing: it is 25% higher than that of the continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u367	It's the sausage, not the tobacco!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u368	In view of this dramatic fact, the Government has decided to increase the price of tobacco to bring it into line with that applied on the continent. As a result, since there will be no more advantages to buying in Corsica, the growth in demand will decrease, as well as, in the long run, the expected tax revenues. Of course, we want this reduction, since it should have the effect of reducing the number of cancers. That is precisely the objective of the price increase: to encourage people to stop buying cigarettes! But while the community is in favour of this public health effort, it does not want to be penalized by the degradation of its resources. Let us therefore make sure that VAT – the product of which will eventually grow faster than that of tobacco consumption rights – compensates for this loss of revenue. The amendment merely draws the logical consequences of the increase in the price of tobacco.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u369	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u370	I do not go back to my colleague's demonstration: the convergence of tobacco prices will inevitably, in the medium or long term, lead to a reduction in tax revenues. This is indeed the conclusion of the mission of the General Inspectorate of Finance, whose report was presented with great media and political reinforcements in Corsica, with the support of Minister Bruno Le Maire. Our proposal is therefore not out of line, it is the result of our discussions with the Government and the work of the IGF. If you want the good of the community of Corsica, which we do not doubt, support this amendment! We want to discuss transitional measures, but not its principle, because there is no doubt that tax revenues will eventually fall. In addition, I say again that it is not right that cancers finance our roads! The share of VAT enjoyed by Corsica is the same for all French regions. By the way, I would point out that unlike financial autonomy, tax autonomy, which I have often heard about for a while, does not exist. The share of VAT allocated to communities does not fall within the scope of fiscal autonomy: it is an indexed allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u371	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u372	As far as VAT revenues are concerned, I would point out that their growth is 8% in Corsica: it is therefore higher than the French average and higher than the figure you mentioned, Madam Minister. If the amendment were adopted, we could therefore benefit immediately from a good dynamic and then we could really talk about fiscal autonomy. I would, however, like us to focus on a reasonable position, that of the mission of the General Inspectorate of Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u373	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u374	If we have not fought against the convergence of consumer rights on tobacco, it is for public health reasons. But there are still some fundamental problems: the question of road financing, and our desire to have resources for dynamic change, which would be the case with the allocation of part of the VAT product. As you know, Madam Minister, we want a tax devolution that allows us to try to develop Corsica as much as possible, to which everyone would gain. In this regard, your position is worrying, it does not correspond to our expectations, to the outcome of the ongoing discussions, or to what Minister Le Maire has told us. This case will have to be resumed because your answer is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u375	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u376	I would not like to let you have a little music: it is the position of the Government that I support here, the position that was discussed in the first part before the Minister of Economy and Finance. I have in no way expressed a personal position.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u377	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u378	Of which act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u379	I put to the vote Amendment No 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u380	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 33 Number of votes cast 29 Absolute majority 15 For adoption 5 Against 24
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u381	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1781.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u382	First of all, I have, of course, voted on the Government's amendment No. 2471 – even though Mr Bricout's amendments, which he adopted, had dropped, provided for more equalization between the departments – but I note, and this is an unfortunate trend, that the government's amendments concerning the departments are coming to session at the last moment, so we do not have time to examine them. I remember a few examples in the past. Majorities change but bad habits remain. Amendment No 1781, as well as Amendment No 1784 and, in advance, Amendment No 1792, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u383	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1864.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u384	The purpose of this amendment is to include an investment section in the law governing the Fund for the offsetting of transferred expenses – FCCT – and thus to regularise a state of affairs to date without a legal basis, which is detrimental to the proper functioning and the budgetary margin of action of the municipalities. In fact, the CCTF, which allows the municipalities members of a territorial public institution to meet the financing needs of the latter, is accounted for in the operating section, while heavy investments are made since the transfer of the "development" competence to the territorial public institutions, investments to which the municipalities contribute through the said CCTF, which is not provided for by the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u385	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u386	We are starting to consider the amendments on the Greater Paris metropolis. Last year, we adopted only one, to extend for one year the financial flow scheme between the MGP and the territorial public institutions. We then hesitated to extend this deadline to two years, and perhaps we should have done so. In any case, several identical amendments will come under discussion – including one from the Commission and another from Laurent Saint-Martin – which tend to extend the financial neutrality scheme adopted in 2018 until 2020. With the exception of these amendments, I will give an unfavorable opinion to all the proposals relating to the MGP, simply because a political decision, at local and national level, must be taken on the subject anyway. Indeed, from next year onwards, the property tax on companies will be taken into account, for large amounts and with consequences that could be heavy. I hope that the examination of the "3D" bill will be an opportunity for us to work on the evolution of the Greater Paris metropolis, not only with regard to the governance structure – I know that many of us have ideas on the subject – but also with regard to the financial flows, which amount to 3.4 billion, a figure far from trivial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u387	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u388	Unfavorable notice since the CCTF is mainly financed by the operating revenues received by the municipalities. It would therefore be particularly complex to distinguish between the share of the amount of the CTCF contributing to the financing of the operating expenses of territorial public institutions and that contributing to the financing of their capital expenditure. In addition, the imputation of this fund to the operating section has no impact on the overall balance of the municipal budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u389	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u390	Let us return to the origin of this debate: the problem here is not the Greater Paris metropolis but the calculation of the contribution to the reduction of public expenditure. If the share of actual operating revenue is not taken into account in calculating participation in the effort to recover public finances, it remains in the traditional sense that the surplus of operating revenue allows the investment budget to be fed, without questioning the nature of the revenue. But since we are all looking at how to minimize the actual operating revenues of our community to minimize its contribution to the recovery of public finances, we are looking to ensure that the largest possible share of the community's revenues is placed in the right box, namely in the "investment" box. This is the problem of all financial flows between communities: they need to be correctly steered, not for reasons of budgetary sincerity, but in order to optimise the application of a poorly calibrated rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u391	Amendment No 1792 by Christine Pires Beaune was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u392	Amendment No 289 by Mr François Pupponi is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u393	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2617.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u394	It concerns the allocation of Community solidarity, and comes in response to some of the amendments tabled – by responding to one point at the request of Mr Pupponi, a great specialist in the DSC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u395	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u396	In order to draw the consequences of the extension of city contracts until 31 December 2022, we suggest that the EPCI signatories of these contracts be asked to adopt a new financial and fiscal pact in order to reduce the disparities in wealth and burdens between the municipalities. In addition, we propose to clarify the functioning of the SDC, whose rules of application are now complex and sometimes difficult to understand. We intend to transfer the DSC from the General Tax Code to the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, but also to clarify its operation and distribution criteria. The current balance would be maintained: the SDC would remain optional for communities of municipalities and agglomeration communities, and the SIP would continue to set the amount freely. Some editorial adjustments are also planned. [[Mr. François Pupponi acquiesce]] I think you have already had an exchange with my colleague Sébastien Lecornu on the subject, Mr Pupponi.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u397	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u398	We have discussed these issues in the Finance Committee. They were then discussed in the Law Commission during the review of the Bill called Commitment and Proximity. The Committee on Finance has not voted on the amendment, but has expressed its wish that a solution be found. I hope that this is the case with this proposal – we will have the opportunity to make sure. I therefore express a favourable opinion – to which I associate Jean-René Cazeneuve – on this amendment, which seeks to shed light on the debates we have had in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u399	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u400	Thank you, Minister: it was indeed important that the extension of city contracts, voted last year, should be accompanied by an extension of the obligation to adopt a financial pact. On the other hand, the provision that we adopted in 2014 under the City and Urban Cohesion Programming Act, known as the Lamy Act, had the advantage of requiring EPCIs with municipalities with QPVs to pay a DSC as part of the financial pact. However, you have indicated that this DSC would be optional: you should not back down from the previous law! The idea was to force the intercommunities, including poor communes, to be united, hence the mandatory nature of the financial pact: otherwise, the intercommunities were sanctioned and had to pay a DSC whose calculation methods were otherwise defined. Is your proposal to extend this mechanism?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u401	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u402	That's what I thought I understood, but you didn't say it explicitly. I therefore find this suggestion very positive. I will look further at the government amendment, but it seems to me to be in the right direction. On the other hand, giving the EPCI up to 2021 to conclude a new financial pact entails a risk. The inter-communities that have respected the law have in fact voted for a financial pact covering the period 2014-2020. If they are not to conclude a new one until 2021, they may not pay any SDC in that year. It therefore seems to me preferable to set the deadline at 31 December 2020, in order to avoid any break between the financial pact which had been voted in 2014 and the one which will be voted for the period 2021-2023. For this reason, the date of 2021 seems to me problematic – perhaps this point will be the subject of an expert review for the re-reading of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u403	We can indeed demand the conclusion of a new financial pact by 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u404	Amendment No 2617 is therefore corrected accordingly, in its penultimate paragraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u405	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 297.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u406	[[Smile]] It concerns the full compensation by the State of the exemptions from property tax on built properties, which is no longer a chestnut tree, but a baobab!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u407	Amendments Nos 1519, 1522 and 1523 by François Pupponi are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u408	I have before me two amendments, Nos 997 and 996, which can be presented together. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u409	They deal with the consequences, in terms of public finances, of the worst decision taken during the previous presidential term: that of closing the Fessenheim nuclear power plant. This ideological decision now has catastrophic tax consequences for the territory concerned. The fiscal impact of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant on the communal block – common and intercommunal – represents about €6 million a year, half of which is donated to the National Fund for Individual Guarantee of Resources – FNGIR – created during the reform of the business tax in order to manage its effects. This fund, intended to be temporary, still exists ten years later. Unfortunately, as it is fixed on its basis, the communities that initially contributed to it at a certain amount continue to participate in the same proportion, regardless of the evolution of the base of their business tax revenues, i.e. the opening or closing of industrial sites in their territory. In the normal case of a small activity, this operation can remain sustainable and be compensated by the installation of new industries. This is not the case, however, when the closure not only of a nuclear reactor, but of a nuclear site, occurs. In fact, there is the difference between what is happening in Fessenheim and what could possibly happen elsewhere in France if the Government were to pursue this somewhat absurd policy of accelerating the closure of nuclear power plants. The situation I describe is specific to Fessenheim. I had already tabled these amendments last year. At that time, the Government had more or less committed itself to working on the subject, and I had agreed not to fight more, because the amendment that I am asking for will in fact become necessary only in the course of 2020. Unfortunately, I was surprised to hear Secretary of State Emmanuelle Wargon explain, at the last steering committee on the closure of the site, that the work on a reform of the FNGIR taking into account the specificity of Fessenheim was abandoned. It is for this reason that I have again tabled these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u410	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u411	He's unfavorable. We raised this issue last year and then in the Finance Committee this year. I would point out that the amount of the FNGIR is blocked and that it concerns all local and regional authorities: it cannot therefore be changed only for Fessenheim. In addition, collective work is carried out by the communities, EDF...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u412	EDF is not concerned!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u413	...and the Government, which will probably discuss certain elements directly with you. In any case, it is not necessary to call into question the full functioning of the FNGIR. It is in this sense that we have created the correcting coefficient, or "coco", which will be much more evolutionary than the FNGIR, as the Minister will be able to explain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u414	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u415	I hear what you're saying, Congressman. This is indeed a reality: the mechanism of compensation between local authorities and the State is complex – which explains why we did not create a new FNGIR when the housing tax was abolished. You are referring to the situation in Fessenheim – I would point out that the question of the tax consequences of the closure of the site will only arise from 2021 – but other communes in France are in the same situation. That is why I, as Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, undertake to open the file for all of these communes – of which Fessenheim is a member – in order to identify possible solutions. I therefore ask for your amendments to be withdrawn, but I am committed to setting up a working group to deal with this issue, as we will, of course, also do in the CFL and in the delegations to the local and regional authorities of Parliament. I pledge to associate you personally with this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u416	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u417	I am well aware, Mr Special Rapporteur, that my proposed amendment may affect other territories. It was precisely for this reason that Amendment No 997 made it clear that the failure to finance the FNGIR because of the closure of the Fessenheim power plant, which represents EUR 3 million – a modest sum at the fund level – could be covered by the general state budget. I hear your comments, Madam Minister. We worked in confidence on other files, and you weren't on the bench to answer this question last year. Unfortunately, the management of the Fessenheim dossier by the government to which you belong suffers from an unlikely interdepartmental complexity – despite the appointment of an interministerial delegate, which is less and less seen on the ground. I agree to withdraw my amendments, because the final closure of the plant will not take place until June and its tax impact will not be felt until January 2021. This is an act of trust – I hope it will not be an act of naivety.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u418	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor to support Amendment No. 1822.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u419	It deals with the transfer of the land assessment of the enterprises of the territorial public institutions, the EFAs, to the metropolis of Greater Paris, the MGP. You may recall that the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRE Act, provided for a transfer of the perception of the CFE to the MGP in 2021, even though it is now clear that the EFA will not disappear for the benefit of the latter until 2023. There is therefore a disconnect between the timetables: if the provisions of the texts are complied with, the transfer of funding will take place before the transfer of powers. For two years, EFAs should be deprived of a significant recipe, even though they will have to continue to assume the same responsibilities – for example, for the EPT Grand Paris Seine Ouest, 56344453 euros would be at stake. Such a loss would make the programming of EFA financing and investments difficult and uncertain for the next two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u420	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u421	Thank you. The amendment is therefore of a technical nature: it simply aims at realigning the timetable for transferring the collection of CFE revenues to the date of transfer of powers. We have to stop the planned transfer in 2021, and wait 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u422	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u423	I've already answered about the Greater Paris metropolis. I believe that, as of next year, these elements will no longer be purely technical. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion. I do not go back to the MGP: Laurent Saint-Martin will present the amendment from the Finance Committee, which will allow us to close the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u424	I have before me three identical amendments, No 863 corrected, 1758 corrected and 1780 corrected. Mr Jerretie has already referred to the committee's amended amendment No. 863. Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1758 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u425	I would like to briefly recall the background to these amendments. Until the end of 2018, the metropolis of Greater Paris paid the twelve territorial public establishments of the small Parisian crown a compensation of between 50 and 55 million euros. The legislator had foreseen, within the framework of the NOTRE law, that this payment would cease at the end of 2018, expecting – probably rightly at the time – that the institutional scheme of the Greater Paris would then be clarified. At the end of 2018, however, the institutional framework had not changed, leading to a real risk for territorial public institutions of losing more than EUR 50 million of resources. We voted in this Chamber to extend the payment of the Greater Paris Metropole to the EFAs as part of this intercommunal allocation compensation. We also voted, in order not to overwhelm the financial capacity of the Greater Paris Metropolis, the one-year suspension of the allocation of support for territorial investment, the DSIT, to the tune of just over 10 million euros at the time, and also agreed to see us again here a year later if the institutional scheme was the same, which is the case. At the risk, therefore, of this issue becoming a chestnut tree, the amendments tend to renew these measures for another year, namely to extend again for 2020 the payment of the Metropole du Grand Paris to territorial public establishments and suspend for another year the payment of the DSIT, in order to prevent the Metropole du Grand Paris from being totally amputated from its resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u426	The identical amendment No 1780 corrected by Mrs Christine Pires Beaune is being defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u427	Favourable, as this is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u428	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1062.u429	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020: Further examination of the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities"; Review of the credits of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. The meeting is adjourned.
