ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u1	As the Government was not represented, the meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u2	The meeting was resumed. Before we begin our discussions, I would like to remind the Government that respect for Parliament implies being present at the opening of the National Assembly, a fortiori when it comes to a sitting reserved for the agenda set by parliamentarians, in this case the MODEM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u3	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of Mr Jean-Noël Barrot's proposal for a law and several of his colleagues to combat the pitting of forest spaces in Île-de-France (No. 2152, 2435).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u4	As no amendments have been made to this text, I shall put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u5	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill adopted by the Senate to improve the legibility of the law by repealing obsolete laws (No. 1765, 2431).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u6	As the amendments tabled have not been defended, I shall put to the vote the whole bill under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u7	The next item is the discussion, at second reading, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill, as amended by the Senate, to improve the cash flow of associations (No. 2432, 2127).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u8	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u9	Colleagues, take this point of order, based on Rule 103 et seq., as a request for clarification of the spirit of our deliberations today. Under the simplified review procedure, the parliamentary groups seemed to have agreed on the principle that, after the discussion of the bill in committee, they did not submit amendments to the committee. Of course, the practice to which I refer is not included in the Rules of Procedure, but the Members seemed to have agreed on this method of allowing minority and opposition groups to see their consensual bills passed, to save time – o so precious – during the sitting reserved for them and to work in complete serenity. I am therefore surprised – but only a question – that the rapporteur has tabled, in disregard of this principle, an amendment on a text which was the subject of broad consensus during her examination in committee last week. Article 4a, which the amendment proposes to delete, is intended to exclude from the scope of the right of preemption gifts of real property for the benefit of associations and foundations. This provision had been introduced by identical amendments from the Socialist and Related Groups and the Democratic and Related Movement. While the article had been deleted by the Senate, the committee, on a proposal from my group, re-established it in a consensual manner, as the rapporteur had issued an opinion of wisdom. Let me therefore be surprised at the tabling of this amendment against which we will vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u10	In accordance with Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall call only the amendments and the article to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u11	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u12	This allows me to give Mr. Potier the precision he asks. The amendment is intended to ensure that the text is voted in conformity in the Senate and, therefore, its immediate entry into force to meet the needs of associations. In committee, I issued an opinion of wisdom after warning of the risk that this provision would delay the final passage of the bill. What brings us together today and gives rise to such unanimity is the situation of the associations and their cash flow. The text contains many advances in favour of the latter. As Article 4a could be an element of blockage, its deletion was intended to save the text the limbs of the procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u13	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth gave the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u14	The Government had supported, during the discussion at first reading, the amendments that had introduced a ban on mayors exercising the right of preemption on donations of real property for the benefit of foundations, congregations and associations. But I have heard the arguments of honourable senators and members of the House of Commons, and it must be noted that this provision has not been widely accepted. It seems reasonable to me, therefore, to rely on collective intelligence in the territories. I am one of the government members who are elected local – I sit on a municipal council. I give full confidence to the elected representatives to show the intelligence that characterizes them. Since the measure did not convince us, I suggest that we stick to the existing law. My opinion is therefore in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u15	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u16	I thank the rapporteur who had the courtesy to reply to me when she was not obliged to do so. His arguments convinced us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u17	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u18	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Jean-Luc Lagleize, Patrick Mignola and several of their colleagues aimed at reducing the cost of land and increasing the supply of housing accessible to the French (No. 2336, 2434).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u19	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u20	Over forty years ago, Edgar Pisani published his book Utopia Land. As soon as it was published, this essay was considered revolutionary, as it demonstrated that in France, property as described in the Civil Code is the result of a historical accident. Minister of Agriculture and then Minister of Equipment and Housing under the chairmanship of General de Gaulle, its author has shown that many societies live and flourish with another legal and economic definition of land appropriation. The fruit of our history from Napoleonic code, the property was thus, for the first time, called into question in favour of a more collective and universal relationship to the ground. With hindsight, this essay is still timely, as it addresses the major challenge of controlling rural and urban land and, through it, the future of humanity and the fragility of ecosystems. Forty-two years later, we gathered in the Assembly to discuss a bill to reduce the cost of land and increase the supply of housing accessible to the French. Forty-two years have passed, but the problems remain and undermine both the daily lives of our citizens and the viability of our cities and territories. Forty-two years have passed, our cities have snacked on the ground, but our citizens are more than ever facing a painful situation with regard to the cost of land and housing. The price of land has increased by 71 per cent in ten years, which makes it difficult for many French people to live with dignity and freedom, especially in the tense areas of our country. However, we observed this during the movement of yellow vests, the cost of land ultimately strikes the purchasing power of the French and hinders their quality of life. According to INSEE, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, the share of expenditure on household income increased from 12% in 1960 to almost 30% in 2017, and it is housing and associated expenditures that ultimately lead to their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u22	Despite the continuous increase in these expenditures, the French are not necessarily better housed. On the contrary, they are often relegated away from tense areas, which de facto results in a significant increase in their transport costs. In this critical context, this bill, supported by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, aims to reduce the cost of land in order to breathe new life into the French budget. It also aims to place local elected representatives at the heart of the act of building the city, giving them real tools to implement their land intervention strategy. This text is the result of the mission entrusted to me by the Prime Minister, whom I solemnly thank for his confidence. My thanks also go to you, Minister responsible for City and Housing. I have submitted my report to you, which contains fifty proposals. Before I present you in detail the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the articles of the draft law, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the spokespersons of all the political groups in the House for their involvement in this text. I have approached him with humility, and I am proud to have been able to carry out with you a real work of co-construction, on a subject of major importance for our fellow citizens and how much trans-peer. Article 1 is intended to limit the use of tendering for the transfer of land and immovable property in the domain of the State and territorial authorities. This is simply an exemplary measure: public actors will have to encourage the use of amicable sales in the disposal of their land, in order to limit the harmful impact of auctions on the formation of new reference prices. The auction is only a modality in the range of possibilities for the sale of land. The alternative solution is the amicable sale, which is carried out either on a voluntary basis or with publicity and competition, by invitation to tender for major projects or in the context of an interactive notarial sale. This method of disposal also makes it possible to value qualitative criteria and limits the risks of excessive increase in land prices in the under stress neighbourhoods. Article 2 provides for the establishment of free tenure bodies, which will promote housing acquisition projects based on the dissociation between land ownership and the ownership of the building. It thus aims to develop in an innovative way a third right of ownership, complementary to the first two, which are the full classic property and the dismemberment of the right of ownership which divides it between the usufructuary and the nu-proprietary. While the average weight of land in the balance sheet of a development operation is regularly between 30 and 40 per cent, or even 50 per cent, in tense areas, dissociation will make it possible to produce housing at a more accessible cost for our citizens. Following the model of solidarity land tenure bodies, free land tenure bodies will be able to massify the dissociation in favour of intermediate housing, free housing or housing for commercial or service use. In order to prevent any speculative risk over the long term, the Committee on Economic Affairs has called for this activity to be carried out only by public or mainly public companies. Article 3 establishes housing and land observatories in order to increase transparency for the benefit of local elected officials and citizens and to objectiveize changes in land prices. Local and regional authorities will thus have the analytical capacity to manage their land policy. In fact, the establishment of strategies to control land prices by local and regional authorities requires that they have reliable, up-to-date and consolidated data on land prices at the life-cycle level. The mission of the housing and land observatories, which will be attached to the local housing programme – PLH – will be to study developments in land tenure in their territory and to identify wasteland areas as well as areas potentially achievable by raising existing buildings. The urban planning agencies and the various public land establishments will, of course, be able to coordinate their expertise for the benefit of these observatories. Article 4 aims to create a national fund for the clean-up of wasteland. The rehabilitation of wastelands – whether industrial, commercial, administrative, urban or military – is a fundamental fight, particularly to combat the artificialisation of soils. In fact, optimising wasteland means reusing land that is already artificialized rather than using new land; It is to create housing and economic activity without using new spaces. We need to devise new tools to optimize the available land and to identify, requalify, clean up and value wasteland in tense areas. On these issues, we look forward to firm and resolute action by the Government. Article 5 seeks to allow local and regional authorities to use private expertise for the evaluation of certain real estate projects. Today, the real estate projects of the local authorities are subject, before any amicable agreement, to a request for prior advice from the government's real estate management. While we note the Government's reluctance to put a definitive end to the domain monopoly, we draw its attention, however, to the need to support and secure local authorities in their real estate projects. To date, methods of evaluating State services are regularly challenged by local elected officials, who wish to have such a right of option. Beyond this mechanism, on which we will have to decide, we therefore expect strong actions on the part of the Government to improve the functioning of the State's real estate management, so that local elected officials can truly benefit from its expertise. The Committee on Economic Affairs has deleted Article 6 in favour of an Article 6a which aims to strengthen the declaration of public utility reserve land. This device remains so far complicated, so little used, and only dedicated to urgent acquisitions. Article 6 bis will make it easier for local elected officials to set up land reserves, provided that the Government adapts the body of regulations accordingly. Finally, Article 7 aims to strengthen transparency measures in housing construction within the framework of the HLPs. All too often, the number of dwellings built in the community is much lower than the objectives set by the HLP. In the interests of transparency, both for the local elected representatives themselves and for our citizens, the article aims to establish an annual report in the municipal council and in the community council presenting the differences between the objectives of the PLH and the number of dwellings actually delivered during the previous year. This annual discussion will highlight the changing social and demographic situation as well as the analyses of housing and land observatories. This will make it easier for elected officials to manage the implementation of their construction and development projects. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been designed to equip local elected representatives with the necessary tools, in favour of the purchasing power of our fellow citizens. Our ambition is that the French will be able to emancipate themselves and regain freedom in their residential journey. So that this ambition does not remain a utopia, I invite you to pass the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u23	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u24	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u25	I am very pleased to be with you this morning to discuss the bill to reduce the cost of land. This work is the result of a shared will, in particular by the parliamentarians of the majority, and of Mr Lagleize's strength of conviction, which has been putting this issue forward for many months. You agreed, Mr rapporteur, to carry out the mission that the Prime Minister and I had entrusted to you, and you did give me your report a few weeks ago. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the services of my department, who accompanied you, your parliamentary attachés and yourself, in the drafting of the text. This bill is very important to me, because it is fully in line with the vision of housing policy that we have been trying to implement over the past two and a half years. This vision can be summed up by a very clear objective: housing must no longer be an impediment. He must no longer be prevented from finding work because he is too far away or from raising his children with dignity because he is too degraded. In a word, it must no longer prevent the mastery of the destiny to which one aspires. The achievement of this objective depends on two main areas: the production of affordable housing; Renovate housing wherever it is necessary to do so. These are the two compasses of my action for the past two years, with the support of the majority. The implementation of these two components is now fully effective on the ground. Much has already been done to promote the production of affordable housing. I am thinking of the stabilization of financial aid, despite the many debates on this subject every year during the examination of the finance bill – it is quite normal that there is one. I am also thinking of the adoption of the law, known as ELAN, on housing, development and digital development. I thank all parliamentarians, not only those of the majority, but also those who sit on the other benches of this House, for the constructive work we did then. The ELAN law first allowed the construction code to be rewritten. In a few weeks' time, I'll present a prescription that will rip one page out of four of this code! I let you imagine the domestic work that it represented. In what sector is such a huge change taking place? This will give more freedom to the players in the sector and allow them to innovate more. The ELAN law has also made it possible to get out of the whole process to get into the whole project, which is essential to me. This took the form of the partnership development projects – PPP – which we discussed at length here. In Marseille, just a few months after the tragedy on Rue d'Aubagne, we have put in place a PPP, at the request of local authorities. This proves the relevance of the devices you had adopted a few months ago to speed up urban planning, renovation or reconstruction projects. You have also approved provisions to combat abuses, not only speculation, of course, but also so-called unfair remedies, which all too often lead to the freezing of projects. At the same time, we have worked a lot on the renovation, which I have done, as you know, a very strong marker of my action. On the first day, I said that I wanted to be as much the minister of renovation as the minister of construction. Let us mention the many actions we have taken together in this area: the national action plan at the heart of the city; urban renewal; energy renewal; the voluntary investment plan, recently launched with our partners, Housing Action and social donors. Despite all these measures, there was still a hole in the racket, which we had collectively identified when we examined Bill ELAN: the land issue. We all share the observation that you have made, Mr rapporteur: land today accounts for a far too large share – 20 to 60 % – of the cost of an operation, and that cannot be sustained any longer. Before insisting on some of the very relevant measures that you propose, I would like to point out that solutions exist and are already being implemented. I am thinking in particular of the role played by solidarity land organizations – OFS – in social ownership. We worked on this issue for long months and we all agreed that these SFOs were certainly the best solution of the moment for social ownership to cost our fellow citizens as much as possible. We have made considerable progress. Under the ELAN Act, housing that is the subject of a real joint lease – BRS – established by an OFS is now included in the quota of social housing set by the SRU law on urban solidarity and renewal. That is the political priority we attach to SFOs. As I speak to you, some 20 OFS are in the process of being created, and the city hall of Paris has also announced the establishment of such an organization. I'm glad to hear that, because I've been fighting in this direction. Consider that we had introduced the BRS when Emmanuel Macron was Minister of Economy, into the law that bears his name. The question now is whether we can go further, by extending the SFO model to create free land organisations – LFOs – I am deeply in favour of it. Nevertheless, care must be taken to preserve what founded the success of SFOs, in line with their primary objective: to be able to circumscribe operations in order to avoid speculation on land. [[The rapporteur agreed]] In order to combat land speculation, the example is also used: finally, we are providing a solution to the problem of auctions. How many of us have experienced the experience of being solicited by people denouncing the whole bid! In fact, it has only one consequence: the French are paying higher and higher prices. You are proposing very significant progress in this area. If this bill is passed, the state will have to be exemplary, and I welcome it. Another issue is community ownership of land. I believe that your proposal concerning the right of urban preemption is relevant; it is an indispensable tool for putting in place a controlled cost policy. This is another area in which we can work in a profitable way. Finally, there is the question of community support in the development of land strategies; The aim is to adopt the most pragmatic approach possible, in order to define how the state and the legislator can empower communities to do so. To achieve this, we will need to consider many aspects of these strategies and their inclusion in the HLP. Your bill invites us to discuss it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Thus, the examination of this text is an important moment for me, because it brings solutions to build the top floor of the rocket: the ELAN law had made it possible to identify the need for it, we had then referred its completion to the execution of additional works. You have agreed to do this, Mr rapporteur, in cooperation with many of your colleagues, and I am very pleased that we can now bring new solutions to the land problem, which are fully consistent with our strategy: to rehabilitate housing and build new, affordable housing for the benefit of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u26	Mrs Isabelle Florennes spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u27	The text defended by our colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize, the fruit of his report on land, is a continuation of the first three bills that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is presenting today. These complementary texts try to respond, each in its own way, to the concerns that the French have raised in recent months, particularly with regard to purchasing power. Housing has become, in recent decades, one of the first items of household spending – and even the first in so-called tense areas. At the same time, it is an absolutely decisive factor in access to employment, in the development of a professional career or in the choice of modes of travel, and hence in the ecological footprint. In short, housing irrigates all aspects of the daily life of the French, and the rise of its prices has a direct impact on the purse of our fellow citizens. This flight, we know at least one of the main factors: the speculative game on land, now well installed. All the professionals in the sector make it known: what is expensive is the land. This applies even more to the tense areas, where it is sorely lacking. Our colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize has therefore courageously tackled the root causes of the problem and – with great wisdom, it must be said – has interacted with all the players in the sector in order to draw up his report and to draw up this bill. But the great sensitivity of the subject also called for consultation of all the political groups in this House. Again, I believe that we can welcome the attitude of our colleague, who has done everything possible to ensure that everyone can speak about this text and propose amendments in order to extend its scope. The result of these exchanges is a comprehensive toolbox made available to elected officials and citizens. It is a question of encouraging virtuous practices that, we hope, can stop the price increase and allow mayors to better develop their territory and better meet the demand for housing. The proposed measures are structured around these two main objectives. The first, one of the most important, is indicative of the movement that this text aims to drive; It is a ban on the sale of land by auction to the state and communities, and a reaffirmation of the need to be exemplary in this regard. The State and the communities are indeed among the players in the speculative game and have their share of responsibility in the rise in land prices. In order not to contribute to this harmful development, they must make an effort and adopt more virtuous practices in the management of their domain. Another key measure, which we hope will be preserved, is the creation of free land bodies. Without further detailing the mechanism that you have already presented, Mr rapporteur, I will merely recall that the future LFOs, directly inspired by the OFS created by the law for access to housing and a renovated urban planning – ALUR – are thought of as tools for communities to decorate the price of land from that of construction to encourage social accession to property. This is a measure of which we are convinced that it is in the right direction and that is why we strongly hope that the order to define the leases suitable for the products proposed by the future LFOs will be designed in consultation with the parliamentarians, while being published quickly enough to ensure that its effective implementation takes place in the wake of the promulgation of the text. New tools, of which we also expect a great deal, the future observatories of land are established by Article 3 of the text. They will provide strong support for the schools, which will facilitate the planning mission by providing them with a comprehensive scoreboard of land and housing information in their territories. They should be perfectly adapted to solve the difficulties that mayors encounter in tense areas in collecting information. As far as mayors are concerned, we wanted to give them the opportunity to use approved private expertise for certain operations. I shall turn for a moment to this subject, which has given rise to many discussions. The State Real Estate Directorate – DIE – has made significant efforts that we welcome. In this way, it has begun a review of the way in which it operates – I am thinking in particular of the method of pricing and their justification. This is a good thing: such measures are likely to give the edicles greater visibility in the implementation of their projects, and give a significant example of the transparency towards which all actors must strive in the area of housing. However, it is not forbidden to question the hierarchical remedy which we will examine in the course of the discussion. Is this new remedy not going to make it more complex, where we wanted to simplify? Moreover, how can we imagine that the appeal to another internal body to the DIE will lead to a decision disavowing the decision already made by the DIE itself? These are real questions which I hope will be answered in our discussions. Transparency, which I mentioned at the moment, also inspires the last measure proposed by this text: the obligation to draw up an annual report on the construction of housing. Presented in municipal council, this milestone will serve both citizens, for whom it will provide an overview of past, ongoing and future projects on the municipality, and elected officials, who will be able to assess their own progress against the objectives they have set themselves. New tools, virtuous practices, transparency: all the slogans that guided the construction of this text, which we hope will create a new emulation within the land sector. I say "emulation" because it is a question of producing a driving effect among the actors, of empowering them and of asking the question of the consequences of their attitude on the prices of land and therefore of housing. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mrs Pascale Boyer also applauds]] But it is also a question of giving elected officials, in particular, the means to adapt to this development and to mitigate its adverse effects. This dual desire for encouragement and accompaniment must lead to a balance and must not allow speculative play to prevail in determining housing prices. It is imperative that we all work together in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u28	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u29	I would like to thank the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement for this particularly visionary, intelligent and solutions-oriented bill, but also for the spirit behind its elaboration, during parliamentary information work, through consultation with all political groups. On behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I solemnly express our gratitude for instilling such a state of mind in the House. We had seen it with Jimmy Pahun's proposed law for the protection of agricultural activities and marine crops in coastal and mountain areas; We have found it with that of Erwan Balanant for an effective ban on electric fishing: on matters that could bring us together, consult us, work together, seek consensus and compromises enlighten our House and respond to a strong expectation of today's society. Unfortunately, the niche of the Socialist and related group will not have the same fate next week; We felt a contempt for our proposals in the lack of work, collaboration, listening. Our proposals are almost systematically rejected; Yet they were – at least I believe deeply – in exactly the same state of mind, if we look back at them by freeing ourselves from political considerations. I can only regret this difference in treatment; There is a school of peaceful and constructive democracy that could inspire the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u31	Another area of satisfaction, Mr. Rapporteur: you cited Edgard Pisani, touching on a sensitive rope, that of happy days when different groups of political and spiritual inspiration were able to converge in the sense of social Gaullism. I would also like to mention Edgard Pisani, who, in the 1990s, said that he admired the dynamism of the company, but without being able to prevent himself from thinking about the problems of man and society that the company does not solve directly or indirectly. "Who will think of the distant future," he said, "if politics, as a watchman in the night and as a visionary, does not propose a future and prepare the species and the nation to solve them so that they remain masters of their destiny?" That's exactly what you wanted to do. Another quotation from Edgard Pisani is more directly related to the question of land, which brings us together today: "The maintenance of the goods of nature among the merchant goods will lead us to the acceleration of threatening phenomena, of which we are already witnesses. That was thirty years ago and this acceleration has only increased. Thank you therefore for your bill, which contributes to two achievements to which the Socialist and related group is very attached: the power to live – to take the name of the set of pragmatic and precise proposals defended by Nicolas Hulot, Laurent Berger and a coalition of associations in order to reduce social and territorial inequalities – and the protection of the planet's ecosystem, our common home. With regard to the latter, I cannot fail to refer to the trans-party colloquium that Jean-Michel Clément, Jean-Bernard Sempastous and I met yesterday; The Victor Hugo room was full of cracks. All the organisations present, the agricultural unions, the Regions of France, the ADCF – the Assembly of the Communities of France – and five environmental NGOs have signed together an appeal to the Government for a move to action in the area of land reform and regulation. It is high time, there is an urgent need to ensure generational succession and to protect agriculture and land as a common good. In short, as you have understood, this call converges with your proposals to rebalance public and private power, which is at stake for political action at the beginning of the 21st century. More precisely, our group has been able to make a proposal, as we have resumed, in agreement and in discussion with you, some of our expectations, which have not been successful in recent months. Some have been able to join the fifty proposals of the report to the Minister. I am proud that Ms. Battistel and I have helped create the opportunity for communities to build land reserves without having to justify a short-term project. More generally, I regret that we have not had time to simplify the collective organisation, in particular of FTEs, public land establishments, and SAFER, land development and rural establishment companies, in connection with SCOTs, territorial coherence schemes. These planning tools, which have become tools of local programming and experience, which we have had in Nancy and which I had the honour to co-build in previous years, show that articulation, planning and programming would require more effective political objects than the current dispersal of the organisation of decision-making centres. Perhaps we will return to this point. I am also dubious with regard to private property counter-expertise, preferring to reform areas, to avoid any risk of speculation. Similarly, the SAFE must accompany the rise of the agricultural land market, including when it is the result of people bypassing their right of preemption – a scandal that we will have to solve one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u32	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u33	[[Applause on the SOC and MODEM benches]] Our call for a large consolidation, encompassing all the public goods of the various ministries in the different territories, in order to clean up the man-made soils and put them back on the market for the benefit of the communities, is an extraordinary bet on the future. The proposals we have put forward in this direction have not been successful, but we will take them back when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u34	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u35	First of all, we would like to congratulate our colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize, for the quality of his work, as well as the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, for placing this text on the agenda of his parliamentary niche. Mr rapporteur, on 4 April the Prime Minister sent you to study the control of the cost of land in construction operations with a view to ensuring a balanced planning of the territory. You have identified two priority objectives. The first is to break the spiral of rising housing prices by banning public auctions, providing more transparency on price setting and halting land speculation. The second strategic objective is to free up more land and optimize available land by giving mayors tools to effectively conduct their housing policy. Your work has made a significant contribution to these goals. That is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group supports the proposals you make to strengthen communities in their prerogatives. In particular, the proposed law aims to generalize the dissociation between land and buildings by allowing local authorities to create a free land organisation through which they could propose real free leases – BRL – on the land they develop. We welcome the fact that the debates in committee limited this possibility to companies which are predominantly owned by public capital. The use of experts accredited to appeal courts would also speed up procedures for communities. I regret that the Government is trying to remove this facilitating measure for local elected officials, as we have all been forced to wait for the assessments. Another interesting provision is that local land observatories will aim to provide greater transparency in the sales operations of individuals. We welcome the fact that, renouncing the creation of new urban planning agencies to carry out these new tasks, you have entrusted them to the existing agencies. With regard to the housing construction data which these observatories will have to transmit to the local authorities, we will propose, together with you, the rapporteur, to amend Article 7 in order to make it more efficient. Another problem is the control of urban sprawl. The clean-up and conversion of wasteland is a real challenge for spatial planning. Article 4 creates a fund for the clean-up of wasteland, which seems to me an excellent initiative. This fund should also cover the asbestos removal operations of certain agricultural buildings. Indeed, the persistence of these unhealthy buildings remains a concern for the balanced planning of the territory and compliance with ecological requirements. Only the regions are not armed enough to meet this challenge; It is the responsibility of the State to assist them. The IDU, Action and Independent Group has always proposed and supported initiatives to simplify housing policy. In this area again, Mr rapporteur, you have made a number of relevant proposals in the report you have submitted to the Prime Minister. I would like to ask the Minister responsible for the city and housing about the follow-up that will be provided by his administration. In conclusion, while the text focuses on the issue of land, let us not forget that the rise in housing prices is also due to the complexity of standards and to our policy on land use. We said that during the review of the ELAN law. I welcome your intervention, Minister. She has informed us about work that will be completed in the coming days, and that is expected to significantly improve the situation. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Priority should be given to a territorialised housing policy, adapted to the 400 living areas identified. Rather than building more through a centralized policy, we need to promote "building better" through territorial anchoring. I repeat: we support all initiatives that will contribute, like this text, to the simplification of housing policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u36	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u37	The text is driven by an ambition that we all share: to facilitate access to housing for our fellow citizens who, in many cases, find it difficult to implement their real estate projects. The first to lose their illusions in this area are the inhabitants of the tense areas, where demand for housing is exploding, while the supply of goods available for rent or sale is tarnished. The worrisome inflation of the cost of land contributes to this general increase in prices. This issue, at the heart of the concerns of our fellow citizens, is also, as we know, an essential subject for local elected representatives. So we often find it at the heart of the election campaign for the March municipal elections. I also welcome your work, Mr rapporteur. As part of your mission, you have conducted numerous hearings, and you have produced a high quality report. I also appreciate your method of involving all parliamentary groups in the co-construction of a consensus text. A balance has been found. I hope that we will retain this compromise or consensus during the consideration of the bill. You are advocating complementary arrangements, rather targeted at the middle classes, to enable them to access housing in the tense areas, of course, but also elsewhere, especially in the peri-urban areas. To do this, it is essential to control the cost of land. The text proposes several operational and pragmatic improvements, to which we broadly agree. In particular, I am thinking of the ban on auctions of land in the private domain of the State and local authorities. This measure, provided for in Article 1, will limit the inflationary effect of auctions that we regularly observe on the ground. Moreover, amicable divestitures allow the planning policy to better abstract itself from purely financial arbitrations and to value the quality of projects, social mix and architectural, landscape or environmental quality. The creation of local land observatories also receives my full approval. First, because knowledge of land markets is essential for effective public action. I am convinced, therefore, that their work will enable communities to act in favour of the development of their territory and to deploy relevant land strategies. Secondly, because access by individuals and professionals to information on real estate and land transactions is a condition for combating land speculation. Finally, because the provision that these bodies can rely on urban planning agencies, FTEs, and be linked with local housing programmes, guarantees both their scope and their effectiveness. On the other hand, I am sure that a good knowledge of the land reserves is also useful in the relaxed areas. In my view – as you know, rapporteur – we could have pushed this logic further by giving land observatories legitimacy equivalent to that of rent observatories. I will therefore defend an amendment aimed at establishing a process for the approval of housing and land observatories by the representative of the State in the region. Similarly, I support the possibility of using experts approved by the call courts, whose estimation is both rapid and reliable. It's a demand from the communities. You have to hear it. I, too, regret that the Government has tabled an amendment to maintain the monopoly of the State's real estate management, the former domain department. With regard to the creation of a third right of ownership, I have communicated my reservations. Currently, the dissociation between land and buildings introduced by the ALUR Act is limited to social housing, in accordance with the arrangement of the real solidarity lease – the BRS. Its expansion to the private park could be misunderstood by our fellow citizens: they could see it as an attack on property rights, whose constitutional value and social dimension we know. No one ignores the French commitment to this right. It was a pity that the Government had chosen to make an order to establish that mechanism. Parliamentarians are able to legislate on this point, by improving the text during the shuttle. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] As you have understood, the Liberties and Territories Group is approaching the bill rather favourably, hoping once again that the compromise or the balance reached in committee thanks to the rapporteur's work will allow us to debate it in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u38	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u39	It's the dream team of housing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u40	Reducing the cost of land, increasing the supply of housing accessible to the French: these two objectives, we can only share them. So let's look at how the proposed legislation can achieve them. In Article 1, the prohibition on auctioning public land goes in the right direction, at least in appearance, as the divestiture of public land represents only a minority – less than 10% – of the dwellings produced. However, this measure seems to undermine the free administration of local authorities and could be censored by the Constitutional Council. Moreover, amicable disposal does not guarantee control of the price of housing, which is the aim sought. In relaxed territories, it is difficult to find a lessee at the fixed price. Finally, imagine the difficulties that will arise if a community seeks to give up a workshop: how to choose between several craftsmen? Let us hope that you will adapt the proposal to local realities. In section 2, a government amendment refers to the creation of free land agencies, which is regrettable. It would be useful for the legislator to clarify the extension of the scope of the dissociation of land and buildings, which has been authorized since the ALUR law. This still recent measure needs to be assessed before a decision is made to go further. The issue of bank guarantees will also have to be resolved. Let me turn to Article 3. The establishment of local land observatories has proved successful in tense territories. It must be encouraged – not imposed – if elected officials consider it relevant. Trust and freedom: this is what local elected officials expect after the promises of the Congress of Mayors. The Government will invite the majority to delete article 4. Wisdom will prevail. With regard to Article 5, we share your willingness to improve the valuation of public goods. Let's try together to perfect this public service! Article 6 was deleted in committee. Indeed, the reversal of the logic of derogation from the rules of a PLU – a local planning plan – would have required a more precise and robust drafting, perhaps retaining the possibility of a derogation, provided for in the PLU itself. Article 7 introduces an obligation to report annually on the construction of housing, in order to bring production back to the objectives of the HLP. Justified in important communes, the measure does not seem to me to be in the small ones, for which the PLH hardly envisages any constructions. Objectively, the impact of these few measures, although interesting, seems limited to me. Let us go further, ladies and gentlemen, and think more comprehensively. The cost of land is not determined solely by the price of land. Several factors increase the price: property taxation, taxes and charges for connections, as well as participations to finance public facilities. On the other hand, lowering the cost of land will not be enough to increase the supply of housing accessible to the French. In some cases, even if the cost of land is zero, the price of housing is not accessible. Indeed, construction costs can increase due to land characteristics or architectural and urban requirements; In addition, the taxation of construction. Minister, consideration should be given to introducing a reduced rate of VAT to make housing more affordable. Above all, measures such as the reinstatement of the LPA accession – personalized housing assistance – or the initial rate of the financial quota of the PTZ – the zero-rate loan – in the municipalities where you have reduced it, would make the demand solvent. It should be noted that the increase in the cost of land, if significant, does not apply everywhere. It mainly concerns certain centres in metropolitan France, making the price of dwellings that are not accessible there. In these areas, which concentrate an increasing number of jobs and services, the demand for housing increases, but supply cannot keep up, even when the cost of land is lower. Thus, the lack of equitable land-use planning exacerbates the shortage of land, and explains the increase in the cost of land-use planning. Mr rapporteur, you have the merit of making proposals to facilitate home ownership, even if they are insufficient. We need to make the whole of the territory attractive and accessible, to better connect it, to distribute public jobs and the future in a meaningful way. This will help to rebalance the demand for housing geographically and reduce the shortage, thereby reducing the cost of land. "Building more, better and cheaper": what have become of the stated objectives of the ELAN law? A housing crisis is on the rise. I sound the alarm and call on the Government and the deputies of the majority to finally promote a proactive housing policy and a fair housing policy in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u41	What a peach!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u42	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u43	Following Dominique Potier and other speakers, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Jean-Luc Lagleize, for his bill and the method he has adopted. Choosing consultation, seeking consensus, taking into account the views of all groups – including those with the smallest numbers, such as the Democratic and Republican Left, of which I am a member – is rare enough to deserve praise. I've worked on many bills, I've spent hours, months, I've organized many consultations. In response, the majority has often refused even if only to initiate the debate by adopting motions for prior rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u45	[[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] It's always unpleasant. I have had too much experience of these situations since the beginning of the parliamentary term so as not to welcome the rapporteur's method, which breaks with too frequent an attitude. I would like to make a few remarks before we begin our consideration of the articles. We will agree, I believe, that our country is experiencing a profound housing crisis – it is too rare and too expensive – which is going to worsen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u46	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u47	Indeed, the measures which would have allowed us, even slowly, to emerge from this spiral have not been taken. The crisis is worsening, the number of constructions is falling, prices for purchase or rental continue to rise. The share of housing in household budgets is increasing, and housing is increasingly contributing to the deterioration of the purchasing power of families, especially the most modest ones, in tense areas. This bill is important because the price of land determines the price of housing – it is the raw material. It must be regulated, because in this area the invisible hand of the market does not exist. And then, to make money while sleeping, there's no better than land. When the price of land increases, it is rarely because of the work done by its owner, or because of its intelligence. The rise in prices is still due to exogenous factors, often linked to public intervention: the local planning plan – PLU – is changed, opening up new rights to build or densifying a territory; New transport infrastructure, metro stations or train stations are being built; schools are opening up. The increase in the price of the land is never due to the work of the owner. The value of certain land can be multiplied by ten, fifteen or twenty in a few years, thanks to public investment. Why should the land valuation allowed by public investment be privatized? Land is a perfect illustration of the trend towards socialization of investments and privatization of profits. We need regulation. This bill, if not revolutionary, allows for some progress in this area. Let us stress the importance of the measure to limit auctions and auctions. I take as proof two examples of the Paris region. Mayors of Greater Paris have joined forces to launch the consultation "Let's Invent the Greater Paris Metropolis"; the preferred criterion for selecting projects was land valuation, favouring speculation. The Société du Grand Paris is currently investing in train stations and metro lines; the land adjacent to these infrastructures will be allocated to the highest bidder, to the detriment of social mix and price accessibility. It can't last. I hope that the ban on selling by auction will not only apply to the private domain of the state and local authorities, but also to the land managers and all publicly controlled companies, be it the Société du Grand Paris, the mixed economy companies – SEM – or the planners. This is a key issue for our public policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u48	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize, rapporteur, also applauds]] Above all, I hope that the Government will not devitalize the text on which we have been working, by amending it or by using the ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u50	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u51	The La République en marche welcomes the remarkable work done by the rapporteur, Jean-Luc Lagleize, a member of the MODEM group, who has worked for many months on the subject. On April 4, the Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, entrusted him with a temporary mission, the purpose of which was "to control the cost of land in construction operations", with the aim of building more housing at more affordable prices. This mission followed the enactment of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Act, known as the ELAN Act, which you defended, Minister. The report from the mission is rich. It contains fifty proposals, some of which are included in the bill we are considering today. Housing prices increasingly weigh heavily on household budgets. According to a report by the Housing Accounts Commission, this is their first item of expenditure; they spend 25 per cent of their budget on it. The cost of land is a major obstacle to development and construction. It represents between 20% and 60% of the cost of operations; This share reaches 30% in areas where supply is most inadequate. In tense areas – Paris and the Paris region, provincial metropolises, cross-border areas and mountain, coastal and overseas tourist cities and areas – the price of land is the first obstacle to the construction of new housing. According to figures established in 2017, all regions have seen the price per square metre of land increase over the last ten years, with an increase of 23% in Île-de-France, where the value of the square metre is three times higher than the national average, 40% in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region and 123% in Basse-Normandie. In order to build more housing accessible to as many people, it is necessary to facilitate the transfer of land – this contributes to lower land prices – and to develop coherent urban planning projects in partnership with local actors. This is the main objective of this bill. In order to curb land speculation, auctioning in tense areas, where municipalities are subject to the tax on vacant housing, will no longer be permitted. The "La République en marche" group will table an amendment aimed at maintaining the possibility of selling private property by tender in territories not belonging to the tense areas, in order to preserve the freedom of choice of the communes, in particular the rural communes. The proposed law will allow the creation, on the model of solidarity land organizations, of free land organizations, which will promote the dissociation of land and buildings. The objective of these LFOs will be to acquire and manage land, whether built or not, for the purpose of building housing and public facilities. They will remain owners of the land, and will grant long-term leases to the lessee, who will own the building. Currently, a habitat and land observation mission is planned in the HPL of each municipality. Article 3 of this bill provides for the transformation of this system to create real housing and land observatories. The La République en marche group will defend two amendments relating to the obligation to set up these observatories in certain territories, aimed at strengthening their tasks, in particular those relating to the observation of prices and the construction of land. Article 4 of the proposed law aims to establish a fund for the clean-up of urban and industrial wasteland, with the aim of increasing the availability of land. The Government will defend an amendment to delete this article. He proposed that a working group should be set up to consider other possible solutions for rehabilitating wasteland; The working Republic Group will closely monitor the work of this group and its results. In order to protect the municipalities, particularly those in rural areas, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of the Government's amended amendment No. 59, which would remove the possibility of replacing the opinion of the services of the State Real Estate Directorate – the former services of the domains – with the results of private expertise. By amendment No. 59, as corrected, the Government also intends to oblige the competent State services to provide responses of the same quality to all local and regional authorities, regardless of their size. The latter will thus be able to have a neutral, objective and free assessment, in order to protect the financial interests of the public authorities and taxpayers while informing the decision-making of the deliberative assembly. Finally, Amendment No 59, as corrected, seeks to give all communities the opportunity to draw on private experts, in addition to the opinion of the State services, if they so wish. It aims to facilitate recourse by introducing the possibility of hierarchical redress in the event of disagreement between the competent State and the community. This draft law will make it mandatory for the EPCIs to submit an annual report, presenting, for each municipality, the implementation of the local housing programme, based on the local housing programme, the local urban planning plan, and the work of the housing and land observatories. This bill provides solutions for areas with high local tensions in real estate, including new tools available to local authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In short, this text provides solutions to the French in the area of housing; the La République en marche group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u52	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u53	I also want to thank the MODEM Group for this bill, which puts the issue of the cost of land and the supply of housing at the heart of our discussions. These problems are the main reason for the visits of our fellow citizens to the permanences in the Paris region and in the urban areas, as my colleagues elected in these territories know. This is a major problem, who... what word can I use in this rostrum? This is a problem that complicates the lives of many of our citizens, regardless of their generation. Minister, you have, I believe, the most important portfolio of the Government; You're taking on a heavy task. Perhaps you will not share that, minister, but all the studies show, alas! that the crisis of malaccommodation is getting worse. Our country now has 150,000 homeless people, including 30,000 children, to whom could be added a large part of the 100,000 people driven out of their homes last year – some under police pressure. At the same time, 200000 apartments are currently empty, just in Paris. You may have done it like me, I went to Montreuil some time ago to the teams of Interlogement 93, which run the call centre of 115 in Seine-Saint-Denis. In this department, more than 150 minors sleep in the streets every night, without any accommodation being offered to them. The number of calls to 115 families with children has tripled in four years – tripled in four years! –, proof, if still needed, that the crisis of mal-housing explodes and that none of the great promises of the Government, like those of previous governments, reverses this dramatic trend. Worse still, every effort is sometimes made to keep the indicators in the red: last year, for example, it was announced that subsidies to shelters and social reintegration centres would fall by almost 60 million euros. At the same time, the President of the Republic had not hesitated to lend himself to a communication operation, by posing alongside people without a fixed home, on the occasion of a nocturnal maraud of the Social UAS. Of course, that is not enough! The price of housing, both for rent and for purchase, is an undeniable factor in aggravating the crisis that no one can deny. However, the Government has chosen, as soon as it is installed, to lower the APLs – it is President Macron's "ballet" in its own words – and to cut into the budgets of social donors, while encouraging speculation through multiple tax niches reserved for private investors. In France, 2 million households are waiting for social housing. The Court of Auditors, however, foresees a collapse of the construction of HLM, a consequence of the political choices made. For those who want to become owners, the price to be paid is increasingly excluded: in the communes of Montreuil or Bagnolet, in the electoral district that elected me, the price increase per square metre reaches 10% per year. In order to combat this scourge, the proposals of our colleagues in the MODEM Group have the merit of exist ing, even if they remain somewhat insufficient. Let me go back to a few points in the text. First of all, the possibility given to local authorities to set up free land offices to dissociate land from the building is a good idea. We will support it, provided it does not restrict the supply of low-income households. As regards the major issue of the need to clean up wasteland, which you mention in the text, we will ensure that the payers are the polluters, not the taxpayer. In Montreuil, the people are fighting for the companies that have salted many lands to restore them. The law must go in that direction! On the other hand, we are opposed to your proposal to grant mayors permission not to comply with certain urban planning rules or standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u54	This has been removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u55	The general human and environmental interest is invariable regardless of the city, and the law must be the same for all. [[Isabelle Florennes, Élodie Jacquier-Laforge and Maud Petit applaud]] In conclusion, we consider it useful to include provisions in the law to regulate the price of housing, both for rent and for sale. We will try to enrich your bill in the course of the debates, because, ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need! Yes, a roof is a right for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u56	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u57	I would like to extend the reflections of Mr Peu and Mr Corbière, and I also welcome the initiative of our colleagues in the MODEM Group to present this text, which gives us the opportunity to reflect together. In a time as uncertain as ours, the best we have to do here is to debate, to share our experiences and to try to reach agreement on matters, Minister, which, to my knowledge, have not yet found solutions. In essence, you are confronted with the impossible, and you are faced with constraints that cannot be reconciled. It seems to me very interesting to be able to discuss it. I'll talk about what I know. I had the chance to be mayor for about forty years: in my early days, and for a long time, there were two communal commissions, one of the taxes and the other of the cadastre. Happily for me, they were both presided over by the mayor, the rest of his members being the defeated candidates in the previous municipal elections. We were obliged to look at the price of sales of houses, properties and buildings, with a representative of the tax services, for the so-called tax commission. The tax officer knew everything or came, when he did not know, with two or three colleagues, because there were often new cases in the commune. A road was thus laid out! For the cadastre, it was the same thing, and the cadastre gentleman took into account all the changes that had taken place. The mayor and the city council could therefore, even before the communal map existed and a fortiori after its creation, make decisions of common sense. Unfortunately, I no longer see these experts, the communal commissions have disappeared, and we have just saved the office of mayor! What reflections should we feed? The first step, which would cost nothing, was to return to what had existed and which had solved complex land problems. To do this, the mayor must be placed at the heart of territorial responsibility, by taking the lead in the entire territorial process. It is necessary to repeal the law of 7 August 2015 on the new territorial organization of the Republic, called the NOTRE law – make this wish known to the boss, even if I don't know if he will hear you! It is an absolute horror that is not your fault, but that of Mr François Hollande and Mr Manuel Valls, to whom you have fortunately succeeded – even if this simple change does not regulate everything. Then we should think in all areas. In particular, we should think about the revival of the free administration, because it is beautiful that we are not inventing anything in France, apart from the prohibitions! Finally, I will give you an address: I have worked for many years in the association Sol et Civilisation, which has given a lot of thought on this subject, including with regard to the Paris region. Mr President, I have not exceeded my speaking time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u58	Barely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u59	[[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] ...and thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u60	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u61	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No 52, proposing a new wording of Article 1. This amendment is the subject of a sub-amendment No 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u62	In order to reduce the share of land in the cost of construction, the amendment aims to eliminate auction sales in tense areas, i.e. in municipalities subject to the tax on vacant housing – TLV – where the stakes of land are high. In the relaxed areas, the amendment allows sales by auction of dwellings, shops, offices and head offices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u63	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support sub-amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u64	Mr Minister, I asked you questions during the general debate: will you take the floor to answer them or will you do so as the amendments are discussed? If Mrs Boyer's amendment were adopted, the other amendments to the article would fall. For me, this is not a problem, since it incorporates my Amendment No 53 which it would drop. However, I wish to amend it. The fourth paragraph of the amendment reads as follows: "With the exception of lots of condominiums, in urban areas or to urbanise local planning plans or documents as defined in Article L. 151-9 of the Urban Planning Code and in the municipalities referred to in Article 232 of the General Tax Code, the sale of these buildings is compulsory by mutual agreement". I propose to add the words "when they are intended for affordable housing" after the words "made". Indeed, we want the sales of buildings in the private domain of the state to be amicable in order to develop the affordable housing stock. This clarification seems timely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u66	The substance of Mr Bazin's sub-amendment is good,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u67	Everything's good in the Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u68	... but its adoption would have a totally opposite effect to our objective. If we restricted the possibility of using amicable selling alone to build affordable housing, municipalities would be encouraged to build other types of housing. I am therefore against the sub-amendment. With regard to Mrs Boyer's amendment, which was intended to allow auctions only in relaxed areas, it must be borne in mind that the auction process was flawed, harmful and led to increases in the price of land. These increases will occur everywhere, in tense and relaxed areas. Their impact will indeed be stronger in the tense areas, where the French have a great deal of difficulty in housing themselves, but it will also be felt on prices, tomorrow, if not today, in the relaxed areas. Personally, I will not vote for the amendment, but I am issuing a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u69	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u70	Mrs Boyer's amendment is important in several ways. A major change is taking place, with the shutdown of all auctions. We see very often the adverse effects of this system, certainly not everywhere or all the time, hence the scope of this development. Another reason why I will give an opinion in favour of the amendment is that we are asking all those involved in the tendering process for this change, Mr Bazin was talking about it in the general discussion, which is not neutral. It's easy for the state, but harder for local authorities. Circumscribing the abolition of auctions to the only tense areas legally secures the breach of Article 1, which is essential in my view, by giving it as justification the pursuit of a clearly established national interest, that of increasing the number of dwellings in areas where they are lacking. I no longer know whether the question was asked by Mr.Potier or Mr.Peu, but it is obvious that the article will apply not only to the State, but also to its "agencies" such as the Grand Paris Aménagement – GPA – etc. The amendment provides important legal security. On the sub-amendment, I fully agree with the rapporteur. The definition of affordable housing is very complex, especially with the assessments we are carrying out on the defiscalization schemes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u71	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u72	Minister, I agree with you that the amendment is in the right direction. It is adapted to the realities of certain territories, in particular the relaxed areas, in respect of buildings transferred by the territorial authorities which are not intended to accommodate housing. However, the speech of saying that we are going to put an end to the auction is a problem for me. In fact, in most municipalities in the tense area, public land is not auctioned. I found it in Metz, and Richard Lioger, co-rapporteur of the information mission on the application of the law of 23 November 2018 on housing, planning and digital development – ELAN – could testify to this. The same goes for Nancy. Most public land is sold at a fixed price. This is particularly the case in the context of the mixed economy companies – SEM – and the cooperative development zones – ZAC. When territorial authorities auction land, they do so most often on the basis of certain criteria, including the quality of the project, but they also enquired about the sale price of the housing envisaged by the purchaser. In general, there is a discussion: "If I sell you the land at this price, you are committed to selling the housing at such a price." Over the course of a decade of practice in municipalities in the tense zone, I have observed that public land is not sold at auction. If the ambition set out in the amendment is commendable, I believe it is necessary to exercise great caution and not to make the French believe that we will suddenly revolutionize things. In fact, auctions are very few cases. In addition, it is primarily the State that makes use of it. Unless it is a public property property purchased on behalf of a municipality, in which case a friendly procedure can be found. In general, these transactions are the responsibility of the State through the Domains Department. It is a bit unfortunate not to know Bercy's position, because we run the risk of the land being systematically classified as exceptional property, which would exclude it from the scope of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u73	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u74	The Liberties and Territories Group does not support the amendment, for the reasons put forward by the rapporteur. Limiting the abolition of tenders to tense areas means not knowing the practice and the territories. It is well known that this procedure has an effect on the price of land, including in relaxed areas. It is also – as I pointed out in the general discussion – to ignore that OTC sales make it possible to value certain criteria, such as social mix as well as architectural, landscape and environmental quality. It seems to me that the bill as a whole must be understood. Finally, the amendment distorts the bill at the beginning of its consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u75	Completely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u76	In committee, we have reached an interesting compromise, made of widely shared balances. I regret that if we return, from Article 1, to certain aspects of the consensus we have reached, we hypothesize the discussions that will follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u77	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised if I support the position expressed by Mrs Pinel and the rapporteur. Care must be taken not to distort the text. This fine article aimed at limiting the use of auctions should not be "pschitt" for reasons of legal certainty. It is important to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u79	The spirit is there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u80	I will illustrate my point by drawing a comparison with a market that I know better, that of agricultural land. The mere exercise of their right of pre-emption by SAFE – a land development and rural establishment company – on 1% of the sales projects notified to them serves as an indicator to clean up the market. Thus, even by acting on very low flows, a leverage effect is achieved on the land market as a whole. This is not limited to areas – tense or relaxed – that we have defined. It is necessarily of a national dimension, at the very least. Any signal, even in relaxed areas only, has deleterious effects, and may therefore have an effect on tense areas. It seems to me that Article 1 must be understood in its full meaning. The very principle of a fair price, the fixing of which escapes the market, seems to me to be in line with the objectives we are aiming at.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u81	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u82	Mrs Pinel, the aim of the bill is to work on the tense areas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u83	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u84	... it is therefore normal that the ban on auctions should be restricted to tense areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u85	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u86	The amendment also takes account of the specificities of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u87	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u88	Sales of eclusive or forestry houses and condominium lots will not be subject to auction. Mr Bazin, you say that the territories are not taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u89	I said you didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u90	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u91	Consideration must be given to the need for communes located in a relaxed area to use auctions in order to have a basis for determining the price of their land.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u92	That's exactly what I said! I'm the only speaker who supported you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u93	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u94	The debate on the application of the provisions voted on here to the territories is very clearly settled. The policy we are trying to implement is, of course, aimed at all territories. During the presentation of the text, I stressed the need to produce affordable housing on the one hand and to renovate existing housing on the other. On the other hand, you have already heard me say that I am in favour of decentralization and territorialisation of housing policy as massive as possible. However, I stress one point: the provisions of Article 1, which are essential, have been the subject of a careful legal assessment. Restricting their application to tense areas makes it possible to justify them in the national interest. Indeed, these areas present specific problems due to an increased scarcity of land. The wording provided for in the amendment therefore strengthens the legal soundness of Article 1, which is essential to me, I repeat, because it really goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u95	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 33, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u96	The procedure is for us to consider the deletion amendments before the others. This one is actually an appeal amendment. It is intended to encourage vigilance when it comes to a mechanism, which is of course very interesting, but which should be evaluated, because it is very recent. Questions were raised, including during hearings, about bank guarantees. This issue is not negligible, since ownership takes place in two stages. If the concept is interesting, it is important to clarify it and to look at its concrete translation. Its application to home ownership in this form is not as obvious as it appears. I think very seriously that it is necessary to take the time for such an evaluation, without excluding the possibility of going back to the device, in order to avoid any bias when it is extended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u98	Article 2 is major in the general economy of the bill. It allows the dissociation of land and buildings, in order to present affordable housing offers to the French. Currently, SFOs are a real success. The first dwellings rented as part of a BRS will be delivered in a few weeks. Their inauguration will take place in December. SFOs address the issue of social ownership by subjecting it to resource conditions. We have decided to extend this regime to allow middle classes access to property in tense areas, thanks to the dissociation between land and buildings. Article 2 is therefore, in a way, the very heart of the reactor. You will understand that I am sending a notice against its deletion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u99	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u100	Defending an amendment to empower the Government to legislate by ordinances is still a difficult exercise, especially if it is part of a bill, and even more so with regard to an article on a mechanism to which the Government – and, in the singular case, the minister I am – is deeply attached, as it has demonstrated for the past two years by fighting tirelessly in its favour. What's this about? We note that the share of land in the cost of exiting real estate operations is increasing. Managing the possibility of offering our fellow citizens more affordable housing by separating the cost of land from the cost of building is certainly a good solution. This is a completely new approach to ownership and the production of housing as we know it. I am deeply convinced that it must be extended, with due respect for the free choice of our fellow citizens. A question is still worth asking – that is what Mr Bazin has just done: do we know if the devices already adopted work? What is very positive is that we can rely on what has been achieved – the SFOs and the SROs. Social ownership schemes exist; We are now wondering whether they should be extended as they are to free ownership of property as well as ownership of intermediate housing. With regard to social ownership, the feedback shows that the scheme is working. I want to point out that there were half a dozen OFS at the beginning of 2018, and that we reached, at the moment I'm talking to you, the figure of nineteen OFS being set up. As the rapporteur pointed out, the first housing units under the SFOs came out of the ground. That the local and regional authorities show such an appreciation for this mechanism suggests that it is particularly sensible. A second point seems very important to me. How have we come to the current situation with regard to social ownership through the system of separating land and buildings? In three or four years of work – objectively. When I was involved in the development of the so-called Macron Act at the Department of Economy and Finance, in 2015-2016...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u101	[[Smile]] So you've been in power for more than two years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u102	... I remember that we were already working on real solidarity leases, amending certain provisions of the ALUR law, which created them. Why did it take so long? Above all, we must not lose sight of the purpose of the scheme, which is certainly to produce affordable housing – everyone is convinced of it – but which is also to ensure that our citizens do indeed have access to such housing and to combat all forms of speculation. This raises the incredibly complicated question of the framework of speculation: it certainly cannot be solved in a snap of fingers. On the other hand, this means that local authorities must be among the winners in creating value on land. As one speaker pointed out earlier, they contribute to the value of the building, in particular through land-use planning. It is therefore necessary to protect the licensor, to strengthen the production of affordable housing, and to examine the relevant perimeter, which may not only concern housing, as this bill proposes today, but also commercial premises; In short, it is a question of defining the most efficient, stable and credible system possible. In order to do so, I believe that a prescription is necessary. Of course, it is never satisfactory for a minister to propose that parliamentarians authorize the Government to proceed by order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u103	And that happens far too often!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u104	But I have, I believe, demonstrated for two and a half years my willingness to move forward on this issue. I pledge to act as quickly as possible, in connection with your rapporteur and with Members. It is a model that I believe very deeply, and it is precisely for this reason that I want it to be completely secure: no one should be able to infer that there would be speculation or fear on the ground that the right to property would be changed. We want to respect the objective of the text – to produce affordable housing through the dissociation of land and buildings – by preserving its ambitious character and ensuring efficiency at the service of the French, while fighting against any possible speculation – in this matter, I am committed to protecting such a system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u107	I had announced in committee that the introduction of this third right of ownership would require the creation of these free land bodies, but also of a free real lease; In particular, the emphyteotic lease must be made rechargeable. I had also announced that the Government would no doubt help us to move faster than we could; He's even going a little further today. The committee accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u108	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u109	This is very interesting, I said, but we need to look at it very concretely, both at the macro and micro scale. Today, a candidate for social homeownership is supported; There's engineering. Some clauses even allow him to reverse, if he realizes that he is too fragile. "Affordable" accession is not yet precisely defined, but it will also be addressed to people who do not fall within the scope of social accession. The conditions that will be proposed, particularly by the banks, will have to be ensured to those which would not be supported as the candidates for social homeownership are today. The success of real solidarity leases is also linked to the action of competent bodies, which know how to accompany the candidates. This new tool cannot be put in place without an interest in guarantees. What will happen in the event of a failure of candidates who would not be supported by such organizations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u110	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u111	This amendment requires that, as soon as a housing and land observatory is established, the inventory of the State's land assets within the area of competence of that observatory be updated. In our view, we need to take this opportunity to draw up a complete inventory – there are now too many silos policies, too many inoperative laws. This would allow us to examine all possibilities of clean-up and reassignment of islets for collective purposes, whether by public or private actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u113	This amendment has already been tabled in committee; he had received an unfavorable notice, which I renew.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u115	Same opinion. There are already many databases, and I suggest you work on the existing one, to understand what might be missing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u116	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u117	In my view, the issue of State public land must be considered with greater attention. When looking for land, for example to create areas of great passage, it happens that public land that was not known to local authorities is identified! The devolutions of assets have not always been made. I am thinking in particular of SEITA – a national company for the industrial exploitation of tobacco and matches – which was a state authority: in the course of land transfers, notarial acts did not always reveal the state as owner. The tax administration should therefore carry out a long process of updating the inventory of the State's land assets. If I have listened to you, minister, you are committed to this challenge; That is, I believe, what Dominique Potier legitimately asks of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u118	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u119	It is an appeal amendment, minister: I am really willing, along with others, such as Mr Bazin, to open a dialogue with you and your services on these matters. The army, for example, is withdrawing more and more from our territories. However, calls for projects or expressions of interest in the production of photovoltaic energy are mentioned, we speak of foster land, we speak of complex housing operations... but we also sometimes see the state behave as a seller of opportunistic goods, without taking into consideration the projects of the local authorities and the FTEs – public land institutions. We see administrations unable to talk to each other to form a common island and meet the expectations of the communities. In short, for each parcel of land to be useful in meeting the challenges of tomorrow, we need an inventory, a strategic design; In particular, when it comes to clean-up, we must be able to take the initiative of looking for polluters to make them payers. This mapping would be a real piloting tool. The state cannot give community planning lessons if it does not deliver its own property, which, moreover, often constitutes a burden for it – the army must maintain important land for reasons that sometimes date back to the 19th century. There would be a nice process of re-consolidating state property, local authority property and private property to be carried out at the national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u120	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u121	The Construction and Housing Code already provides for the existence of such databases for state property, and the Law of 27 January 2017 on Equality and Citizenship provides that they must be made available to local and regional authorities. It is therefore a matter of putting into practice an existing law: let us work on the subject with the State services, the prefectures... to move forward faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u122	I have before me two amendments, Nos 66 and 14, which may be submitted to a joint debate. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u123	This amendment is linked to others that we will discuss later. As the draft law currently stands, the obligation to set up housing and land observatories no later than two years after the local housing programme – PLH – or the local inter-municipal urban planning plan of PLH – PLUI-H – has been made enforceable is restricted to EPCIs located in a tense area. We propose, with this amendment, to generalize this obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u124	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u125	In the same spirit as that of the debate on auctions in tense or non-stressed areas, we believe that these observatories should be set up throughout the territory, and at the scale of each scheme of territorial coherence – SCOT. We therefore propose to extend the obligation to set up housing and land observatories, with a logic of simplification; SCOTs must be tools for cooperation, planning and programming. This device should not be reserved for tense areas with an HPL. Mr Minister, with regard to the previous discussion, we were only inspired by a recommendation from the Court of Auditors on optimising the management of state land. This work is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u126	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u127	She supported the Government's amendment and opposed Amendment No. 14. Mr Potier, I understand the spirit of your proposal. You mentioned the SCOTs, but your amendment obviously also concerns Corsica's sustainable development and development plan – PADDUC – a particular territory that you rightly defend. We decided in committee to link the land observatories to the PLHs, so that they would be established as close as possible to the territories. In our view, SCOT is not the right scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u128	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u129	I will not call the Rules of Procedure, because our rapporteur is courteous and seeks consensus; But it cannot be said that the Commission is in favour of the Government's amendment: on the contrary, it has voted on its own initiative to restrict the obligation to set up these observatories to tense areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u130	Thought is progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u131	That they are mandatory in tense areas, why not? But let us not extend this obligation to those communities that, in a non-stressed area, chose to set up HLPs when they were not obliged to do so. Some have chosen to set up such an observatory. But let us not load the boat: there are no land problems everywhere; An intelligent partnership with the local public property establishment can sometimes lead to studies. Extending the obligation to the entire territory, and more so to already enforceable HLPs, would be a very bad signal to the communities, in a tense budgetary context.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u132	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u133	This amendment aims in particular at strengthening the tasks of the land observatories, by adding a mission to analyse the situation of land and real estate markets. In particular, this measured proposal will allow them to address the challenges of controlling land costs and limiting urban sprawl.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u135	I thank Mrs Boyer for this proposal, which is in line with the mission report I presented to the minister a few weeks ago and the discussions we had in committee. Positive opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u137	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u138	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u139	I understand your intention, Ms. Boyer, when you ask the observatories to analyse the conditions in the land and real estate markets. But for having participated, like many of us, in the development of HLP, I know that the habitat observatories created by these plans are already carrying out such a mission. So your proposal is a little redundant. I will vote in favour of the amendment, but I am not sure that it brings something.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u140	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u141	It specifies the scope of intervention of land observatories. Some communities, together with promoters, define charters for the sale of social housing, intermediate housing and social housing. For such data to be available, the Land Observatory should monitor and publish it. I take this opportunity to reassure Mr Bazin about the land observatories: their establishment will be compulsory in the tense areas and in the EPCIs, where at least one of the member communes is in a tense area, but optional elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u143	The tasks assigned to land observatories are already numerous, and we must be careful that the publication of information on the sale price of social, intermediate and social housing is not too much. That is why I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u144	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u145	I understand, Mr rapporteur, that you are introducing this amendment in your personal capacity – it has not been discussed in committee. I wonder, however, that your amendment refers to the selling prices of social housing, whereas these are normally for rent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u146	These are dwellings sold to social donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u147	The amendment should then be corrected by specifying that it relates to sales price data for "social housing for sale".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u148	We're talking about VEFA, selling in the future state of completion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u149	But the price of VEFA is that of the sale of turnkey housing. Some contractors have sufficient in-house resources to start operations, but others prefer to go through VEFA if they are too complex, or if they want to accelerate the production of assisted housing. In order for the publication by the observatory of data on the VEFA to be relevant, and for the analysis to be complete, the cost of the construction of these dwellings should be added.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u150	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u151	Once I'm not used to it, I don't quite agree with Comrade Bazin... It seems to me important to extend the powers of the observatories in order to publish information on the prices of VEFA. Perhaps you remember, we addressed the subject at the time of the review of the ELAN law: VEFAs give rise to incredible abuses, the price of the same social housing, in the same place, can vary by 30% or 40%. But they are financed by public money. A framework is therefore needed, and observatories are there to ensure it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u152	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u153	As I said in the general discussion, it aims to strengthen the role of housing and land observatories and to give greater legal value to their interventions by submitting their creation for approval, following the model of rent observatories. It was based on the excellent report submitted to the Government by Mr. Lagleize, which called for improving the transparency of the land market by relying on much more reliable elements and following a rigorous methodology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u155	You are right, Mrs Pinel: the land observatories should, in the long run, be sufficiently impartial to be considered as real arbiters in terms of housing and land prices. Nevertheless, we have decided in committee to link them to the HLPs, at least initially, which has the effect of making them observational bodies rather than arbitration. In the long run, it will probably be necessary to label, or perhaps to assign, a status similar to that of rent observatories. This will enable us to accept Mr. Little's proposal to introduce a right of preemption in the event of a clearly exaggerated price, which is not possible today. But I propose to refer the matter to our successors; Let the observatories first settle and work. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment: we must go along the lines it indicates, but not immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u157	Same withdrawal request, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u158	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u159	[[Smile]] I would like to be able to trust our successors, in more than one way, in fact, but experience has shown me that, from one legislature to another, the orientations can vary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u160	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u161	Perfectly, dear colleague. On zero-rate lending, for example, I think we both agree, but a little less so with the minister. That being said, I understand that my proposal is not feasible today. I therefore withdraw the amendment. I wanted the debate to take place because I believe that in order for this bill, which is likely to be passed, to be effectively implemented throughout our territories, the impartiality of the observatories must be guaranteed. We have the example of rent observatories, which have not only improved transparency, but also provide references that, in many territories, have an effect on the demands of some owners. Similarly, if housing and land observatories apply a methodology of quasi-scientific rigour and are approved as such, their action will also have an effect on real estate transactions. I see this as a long-term goal, but – as I say to the minister – we must not lose sight of it if we are to achieve results that will benefit our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u162	Amendment No 32 corrected by Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u163	The same is true of Amendment No 4, as corrected by the same author. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u164	When creating observatories, the biggest challenge is to collect reliable data. In fact, the system is often based solely on statements from promoters and transaction editors. As Stéphane Peu put it, we sometimes see abuses, capital mobilizations, including by some donors, on land where it is frankly surprising that the price of land reaches such a level. However, it is the State that has the tax land data. So he has to commit himself. The approval requested by Ms. Pinel is also intended to ensure that the State transmits this data. Although the Regional Directorates for Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – have very competent services, the data available to them are often limited to volumes. Bercy's services should therefore complement them with information on price levels. If you are forcing communities to set up land observatories, the State must commit itself to providing the qualitative data at its disposal in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u165	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and the Minister for City and Housing rise and applaud]] I welcome, ladies and gentlemen, the presence in the gallery of the Prime Minister of the Central African Republic, Mr Firmin Ngrebada.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u166	We resume the discussion of the articles of the bill aimed at reducing the cost of land and increasing the supply of housing accessible to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u167	I have before me an amendment No 57 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 63. Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u168	It aims to determine the scope of the land observatory's activities. This must be the entire territory of the EPCI, even if some of its communes are not in a tense area, the aim being to preserve the coherence of local housing policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u169	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support sub-amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u170	Amendment No 27 would fall if No 57 were adopted. This sub-amendment therefore reproduces its content and aims to amend the deadlines set out in the amendment so as not to impose new burdens on the communities that have just spent a significant part of their budget on the financing of studies required for HPLs and LRPs, especially when these communities are not in a tense area and do not normally have to comply with the obligations attached to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u171	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment and this sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u172	Mrs Boyer's amendment faithfully reflects the work of the committee: it specifies the places to which the obligation to set up a land observatory applies, i.e. all tense areas and all EPCIs with at least one municipality in a tense area. The committee having debated it, its opinion is entirely in favour. Mr Bazin wishes to exclude from this obligation all municipalities that have already adopted a HPL. This restriction would not go at all in the sense of the mechanics we wish to create. This sub-amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but I am against it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u174	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u175	I have before me two amendments, Nos 16 and 15, which can be presented together. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u176	The first amendment seeks to affirm that state-owned public land institutions are the programming tool for territorial coherence schemes. The second objective is to establish a regional pooling of land management, with the participation of, inter alia, FTEs and SAFERs. Without being brought together within a public authority, the relevant agencies would thus optimize their relationships in the service of a holistic view of land, a vision that is terribly lacking in the communities, as has been shown by previous arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u177	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u178	These amendments aim to make FTEs strategic tools, whereas they are only tools for implementing strategies. This would impose on them tasks that they do not know how to perform or at least are not equipped to perform. Mr Potier, your amendments do not seem to me to be quite perfect: we will be able to work on them if you want. In the meantime, I propose to remove them; If not, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u180	These amendments follow on from the discussion we had earlier. EPFs participate in SCOTs; the question is whether they should become the local actor par excellence in their programming. I share your point: the FTEs must become actors in the development and are more closely linked to the SAFER, but also to the policies of industrial development and, of course, the control of land. They can also play a major role in the environmental preservation of our territories. For the past year, to tell you everything, I've tightened the animation of the EPF. I regularly see their Directors General in order to give them clear roadmaps. It would be useful to continue this work in order to reconcile the transitions in housing, but also in industry, agriculture and the environment, as well as to strengthen the role of FTEs in pairs with EPAs, public development institutions, and in relation to other actors such as SAFER. I therefore ask for these amendments to be withdrawn, but I hope to be able to work on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u181	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u182	Mr. Rapporteur, Mr. Minister, I hear your arguments; But with regard to reforms, I am astonished at the relative tiedness of a Government that does not go with the back of the spoon on other subjects. Simplification is needed if we are to have a proper land authority in this country, a just and strong public authority. Nothing worse than justice without strength; As for the power without justice, you know what it is. The time has not yet come to discuss a land authority that would replace FPS and SAFER: another text may provide us with an opportunity. But considering that FTEs are de facto related to FTEs, it would create a planning forum in the same space, the same governance, with operational implementation at the same level. We would greatly benefit from that. Whenever there is confusion within the public power, it is weakened, which promotes commodification and benefits speculators. We propose a logic of efficiency, of effectiveness, to take a word dear to the President of the Republic. You hesitate to follow her: I therefore hope that the dialogue will continue and, in the meantime, I maintain my amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u183	The next speaker is Mr Aleksandre Freschi, in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u184	As my initial amendment has been declared inadmissible under Article 40 of the Constitution, I propose an amendment of withdrawal. It aims to apply in part and on an experimental basis the proposal No 8 of Mr Lagleize's excellent report on the control of land costs in construction operations. The aim of the proposal was to facilitate access to efficient and coherent planning documents, by enhancing the dematerialization and transparency of data. It therefore suggested launching a pre-figuration mission to build a single database for public housing and real estate policies. This measure seems to me important, if not essential, for the good information of our local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u186	Mr Freschi, your idea is in the right direction, but the departmental level is not necessarily appropriate for the creation of this unique database. This will have to be done, as there are now seventy-two databases in the field of land. The Minister will tell us what the Government intends to do in favour of this harmonization. On the other hand, at the moment we are talking, everything is not ripe to set up the database that you are proposing to us: it could be totally inefficient. The committee did not consider this amendment. I ask you to withdraw it; If not, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u188	There is already a database, from the tax bases, which lists cadastral parcels and real estate throughout the country; but it is not available in open data. This raises both the question of a departmental base and the question of its dissemination to local authorities. Many things are already under way, and we will continue this work with you. However, I do not think it is necessary to amend the bill. I request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u189	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 37 and 42, to delete Article 4. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u190	It proposes the deletion of this article, the purpose of which is the creation of a fund for the clean-up of wasteland. The Government, in conjunction with the presidential majority, has been working hard and for a long time on the subject of wasteland, which is a huge issue of land-use planning. It is our whole policy of revitalization and renovation: I cannot go back to it. It has always been known that the major obstacle to the development of wastelands lies in the cost of their clean-up, which can compromise the financial balance and even the viability of the operation. Should a fund be created to support and finance clean-up? This raises other questions: how would the polluter-pays principle apply? It's not neutral. Who would feed that fund? The proposal for a law provides for this to be done by the Housing Action Group, which is often mentioned in this House. Since I was a minister, I have signed a five-year agreement of EUR 15 billion with Housing Action and a voluntary investment plan of EUR 9 billion. This is a total of EUR 24 billion in support of measures such as the construction of social housing or the conversion of 200000 baths into showers, which I have already had the opportunity to talk to you about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u191	That's a very good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u192	Thank you, Congressman. In any event, it is not objectively the Housing Action mission to finance clean-up operations. In addition, we have set up working groups to combat the artificialisation of soils and to find solutions in particular for the management of wasteland. Let us take an example that echoes your point, Mr Potier: one of the themes that I put on the agenda of our roadmap for FTEs and EPAs is the fate of the vast parking areas that are in many wasteland. We all know that they have the infernal property – it is the water and forest engineer who talks to you – to lead massively to the floods that we see here and there. This work is under way; Once again, I commit myself to pursue them with the method that is mine; But they are not yet finished. The creation by legislation of a fund for the clean-up of wastelands financed by Housing Action would therefore be premature, especially since attention should be paid to the application of the polluter-pays principle. That is why I am presenting this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u193	I call Mrs Nadia Hai to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u194	I am not going to go back to the words of the minister, to whom I agree, but only to the fact that Housing Action does not seem to me to be the right tool for financing wasteland clean-up operations. It is better to go through ADEME, the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management, which, in memory, has launched a call for projects in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u195	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u196	The committee felt last week that it would be happy to accept these deletion amendments if the issue of clean-up of downtown wasteland for housing construction – whether industrial, commercial, administrative or otherwise – was also addressed, particularly in the working groups of Mrs Emmanuelle Wargon. We will therefore consent to the deletion of section 4 if the Minister undertakes to ensure that the subject matter is truly taken into consideration. I did not really hear it in your answer, Mr Minister, but you will probably explain it, so that we can vote unanimously and wholeheartedly in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u197	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u198	I wish to reaffirm here, constructively, the position of the Socialist and related group on this bill. We support all measures to combat speculation, provided that they are universal and not restricted to certain areas. We are also in favour of simplifying planning and programming tools, because, once again, the lack of a holistic view of land is felt terribly – in this area, we are talking about experience. I am therefore very embarrassed by these amendments. We share the view that Housing Action is not the right instrument to finance a clean-up fund. In this regard, we had submitted two more relevant proposals than Mrs Hai's – without wishing to offend her – which the legistic game prevented from seeing. One concerned TGAP, the general tax on polluting activities; the other on taxes designed to combat speculation, that it would have been enough to increase by a few points to feed this fund to save the soil. I remember seeing the SCOT du Sud Meurthe-et-Moselle, one of the largest in France, divide by two its urban areas – industrial and housing – and at the same time return 50 hectares to the natural and agricultural areas, thanks to the EPF, thanks to a recovery plan which had led to derogations, at the time, from Matignon. We can testify that this virtuous movement makes it possible to associate the two phenomena. It is not a question of giving up the need to make polluters pay, but of anticipating and avoiding attacks on agricultural land where we can do otherwise. For this, there are alternatives to Housing Action. Nevertheless, we will refrain from taking a decision on these amendments, because neither the Government's renunciation nor the solution proposed by the rapporteur are satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u199	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u200	Clean-up of wasteland is an essential topic. It undermines a number of territories, which wait for a new use to be found at last. The wasteland is of two kinds. On the one hand, there are those for which solutions are achieved, sometimes even integrated into a private budget thanks to the polluter-pays principle; sometimes also FTEs, which have expertise in this field, manage to reduce the land price of the cost of clean-up, thanks to declarations of public utility. All this is going well. On the other hand, there are problematic cases where the total cost of the clean-up exceeds the value of the land, so that the balance of the operation is negative; State support can then be considered. To deal with these cases, Housing Action does not seem to me the right tool. We must remain fair and not be responsible for polluters. We have many challenges in this area, particularly the dismantling of wind turbines. Given the dimensions of their concrete base, it is not by requiring operators a simple deposit of 50000 euros that we can guarantee this dismantling! Especially since the blades are not recyclable, they are now buried in the ground! So the problem is real. We must adapt the polluter pays principle to current realities in order to avoid creating new industrial wasteland in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u201	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u202	Let us not lack ambition for such an important text. Of course, one can understand the reasons for limiting only the tense areas of the ban on the use of auctions for the sale of goods in the public domain. However, I have directed enough local authorities to know that the border is sometimes tenuous between tense and relaxed areas: because of the extension of the urban spot, efforts to limit land inflation within the former may have the effect of delaying it towards the latter. On this subject, therefore, we were already entitled to make some reservations. And now we are being offered another way of undressing the bill by renouncing the fund for the clean-up of wasteland. If we are to finally contain land prices, we must certainly fight land inflation, but also cause a massive influx of land into the market, regardless of its destination. In this regard, wastelands are therefore a central topic, especially since they have the advantage of already being impermeabilised. The situation of local communities, to which I call the attention of the Government, is another element to be taken into account. There is an urgent need for action because many public institutions for inter-communal cooperation and public land holdings have for many years been suffering from the presence of wasteland on their territory and no one is prepared to finance clean-up in order to put it back on the market. As a result, brownfields represent a heavy burden for local communities, which could invest more effectively elsewhere in the cost of their maintenance and are deprived of land they would prefer to exploit. In the absence of clean-up, they must also impermeabilize other soils in order to develop. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LT groups]] The problem is therefore serious and urgent. But no one is ready to finance the solutions: neither the DREAL, nor the ADEME, nor Housing Action. However, this responsibility cannot be left to the communities alone! On the other hand, I understand, Mr.Minister, the value of applying the polluter pays principle, but most of the time, the land we are talking about was occupied by liquidated companies. In the end, therefore, the original person responsible for the pollution cannot be charged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u203	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u204	I repeat, the urgency is absolute. Housing action may not be the best solution, but pending further action by the Government, it remains the only way to finance clean-up actions. According to the explanatory memorandum of the Government's amendment, concrete proposals must be made by the end of the year. However, in this case, we do not understand why funding has not been provided for this purpose in the Finance Bill for 2020. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LT groups]] This article should not be deleted. Housing action will thus be able to take charge of these operations in 2020 before being relayed by the State in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u205	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u206	Mr. Mignola, the Government has taken note of the problem: it has been working on this issue for two and a half years. I refer, for example, to the experiment that we are conducting with the EPF of Île-de-France and the bank of the territories in order, in particular, to respond to the situations mentioned by Mr Bazin, that of the wasteland which has long been abandoned by the industrial polluter or that of the wasteland which cannot be rehabilitated according to the classical economic equation. Should the financing of clean-up measures be limited to 15 or 20 years? Why not consider, after having extended the duration of loans for social housing for 80 years, that the duration of financing of the clean-up measures must extend to that of the investments which will succeed on the site, rather than concern only the undertaking taking over from those which have polluted? In fact, pollution is often caused not only by the last operator but by all those who have taken over the site. By allocating the cost of clean-up over a large number of years, we could allow projects to emerge when, without that, they would not see the light of day for lack of funding. This article is a problem for me because the solution it is proposing, that of a fund financed by Action logement, is not the right one. On the other hand, I do not want the Government's amendment to delete it to be taken as a sign of indifference to an issue that we have made a priority for two and a half years. Working groups have been set up to move forward with pragmatism. These are not the groups of Emmanuelle Wargon, but those of the Government. I took part in the first one; I strongly encourage you to do the same. I fear that the prospect of the clean-up actions being taken over by Housing Action will have the effect of depriving many actors of responsibility. That being said, you are right, there is an urgent need to act and we have not yet found the right solution. I have explained to you the reasons for my proposal, but I am well aware of its limitations. Let the working groups work; I pledge that they will reach conclusions very quickly, even if, in the event of failure, they will fall back on the solutions which will be judged the least bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u207	I have before me an amendment No 59 which has been corrected and which is the subject of several sub-amendments. The minister has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u208	Article 5 of the proposed law provides for competition between the State Real Estate Directorate and private experts in order to carry out the State valuation required by law before the transfer of property by a territorial authority or its acquisition where the amount of the property exceeds EUR 180000. While some evaluations may have been challenged by communities, the Minister of Action and Public Accounts has, over the past two years, undertaken several actions to improve the functioning of the domain department and the training of evaluators. These efforts will continue, in particular to harmonize practices between evaluation services. The Government intends to seize the opportunity offered by these discussions to accelerate this momentum throughout the country. It is the meaning of this amendment which, first of all, tends to devote to the legislative level the information provided in the opinions issued by the fields so that the communities are systematically aware of all the facts and methods adopted by the evaluator. These opinions will have to be in accordance with the charter of evaluation in force, drafted with the Association des maires de France to supervise the work of the evaluators and the content of which will be updated regularly. In addition, this amendment seeks to create a review mechanism for both divestitures and acquisitions, allowing a community that challenges a notice to obtain a new state evaluation. It is also foreseen that small municipalities and small public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation will now be able to seize, without threshold conditions, the domain service, both for divestitures and acquisitions. Finally, the amendment provides for the submission by the Government of a report detailing, for the benefit of Parliament, all available data on evaluation and comparing the practices of evaluators in the territories in order to inform the national representation of the activity and the results achieved by the departments of the Domain. In accordance with the position taken by the Government, and thus reverting to the initial provisions of article 5, paragraph 3, the new wording proposed to you maintains the obligation for the communities to seize the fields, since the latter retain the right to consult a private expert for further advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u209	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support sub-amendment No 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u210	Like Mrs Battistel, we had to table sub-amendments to the Government's amendment because its adoption would bring down ours. This amendment, which I would call for – as the majority will act as it sees fit – proposes that the services of real estate experts should be used by the courts of appeal only in the event of a failure by the competent State service to respond. Otherwise, you might as well say things clearly and remove the service of the Domaine without further delay! It is true that the area service could improve the quality of its evaluations and work faster. But the alternative solution proposed would cost local and regional authorities, their groups and their public institutions. We cannot thus relieve the State of its responsibilities to the communities. That is why the content of the article seems dangerous to me and I call for caution. I would prefer that we work together to improve the activities of the services of the Domain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u211	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u212	We too have been forced to table a sub-amendment. The solution proposed by the Government is not ours. We would prefer to modernise the areas. The situation is as ubiquitous as that which leads to the SAFRS being asked not to overbid in situations where the price of land results from the action of speculators freed from public control. I was rather in favour of modernising the calculation methods which took more account of the general interest than of the market price. Such a reform, more systemic, would have been preferable to the institutional DIY measures that you submit to us. However, since another solution has been chosen, we propose that you amend the Government's amendment so that, in order to combat corruption and conflicts of interest, the approved real estate expert conducting the supplementary evaluation cannot be involved in the real estate project to which the property concerned belongs. It's obvious, but it's better to include it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u214	The Government's proposal is interesting in that it demonstrates the capacity of the domain service to reform when forced to do so. The article adopted in committee provided for alternative recourse to the fields by using the services of a private expert who had been approved by the Court of Appeal. The Government's amendment seeks to ensure that this remedy is no longer available as a substitute but only as a complement. The committee gave it a favourable opinion this morning, even if it does not correspond to the spirit of the scheme originally adopted last week. I welcome the ability of the areas to make amends and their commitment to retain only one method of assessment for the entire territory. It is also commendable that the services of the fields, in addition to the price at which they result, transmit the method of evaluation and the way in which they have applied it. That's very good and we can just ask ourselves why they haven't worked that way in 20 years. We also welcome the introduction of an appeal procedure – the hierarchical remedy, in administrative law. I therefore agree: the text adopted last week in committee, by a large majority, corresponded to 100% of the content of the report; Today we are asked to go back, while proposing to improve the service of the domains. Personally, I express my wisdom in calling for the goodwill of parliamentarians. Mr Bazin's sub-amendment goes in a way contrary to what the committee had planned last week. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. Finally, although the committee has delivered an opinion against Mrs Battistel's sub-amendment, it seems to me to be in the right direction. In my personal capacity, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u215	Excellent subamendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u217	Opinion against both sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u218	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u219	Mr President, I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u220	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u221	The meeting was resumed. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u222	Without asking for a point of order, and although I feel outside the family, I would point out that it is not very elegant to ask for a suspension of sitting to complete the benches of the majority group in order to have a sufficient number of votes to counter the proposals of a group that is also part of the presidential majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u223	We're not that twisted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u224	In addition, the Government has completely devitalized a bill that I had described as relatively modest in its intentions: despite its modest and concerted nature, it makes it, as we move forward in the examination of the articles, a skeleton. I would like to say two things about this amendment. The first is that, if we consider that the text is intended to regulate land prices, we cannot leave the services of the domains alone empowered to fix prices, for the simple reason that they are not a tool for regulating, but for indicating prices: the prices they give are calculated on the basis of what is found on the market. How can we both see and regulate the market? These two concepts are not compatible. Areas are not regulators; If we want the law to regulate the market, we need other tools. The second is that the private experts we are talking about will not be the street experts, but private experts accredited to the courts. I therefore think that this is an excellent suggestion, which corresponds to the spirit of the bill, which is to regulate the market – and not just to see it, otherwise the text would not make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u225	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u226	I fully agree with my colleague Stéphane Peu. I would add that we regret the rejection earlier of our group's amendment proposing that SAFER and EPF should not only be the indicators of market prices, but also the instruments of the factory at a fair price. However, we are doing so in other areas of the law. The ability of the public authority to determine the equilibrium price of an operation on the basis of the common good would be a revelation, as it would allow communities to have a double view: the market price and the equilibrium price of the operation, manufactured by these establishments. If our amendment had been adopted, we would have accepted the proposed amendment that is now being made to us; Since this is not the case, we must condemn it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u227	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u228	I'd like to go back to the bottom of the subject. As Mr Peu has pointed out very well, it is important that third parties should be able to intervene in the course of the evaluations. Even if we have absolute confidence in the service of the domains, let us admit that it can in fact happen to feed land inflation itself, since it is obviously based on notarial statistics. To the extent that it is not without links with the communities or with the state, they should not also feed land speculation in France! As this parenthesis is closed, I turn to the Government's amendment. It is balanced since it organises an iteration or a possibility of substitution between the expertise of the fields and external expertise, which can be very useful. From this point of view, Mr Bazin's sub-amendment does not seem appropriate. It is not a question of considering that there must be only one opinion, that of the domain department, and that if there is no response from the department, one expert must be called in. This is the principle of iteration which must be sought in order to define the price of land. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] On the other hand, Marie-Noëlle Battistel's subamendment seems logical and even ethical to me. A land expert may not be financially interested in the operation on which he or she intervened. Our group will therefore support sub-amendment 58 but not Mr Bazin's 65. He will of course vote for the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u229	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u230	In the constructive spirit that characterized the preparation of this bill, I would like to point out that Article 6 bis was not initially included in the scope announced by the rapporteur. This provision is the result of an amendment tabled in committee, but its impact assessment is missing, and I wonder about its constitutionality. Expropriation, in particular, may be useful for the establishment of land reserves, with a view to a project that meets a need, a public utility. But I fear that the addition of the phrase "including when the acquisition does not have an emergency character" opens a door, opens the door too large. Will expropriation become possible in anticipation of a need that could be felt in fifty or a hundred years' time? How far can this lead us? I am not sure that Article 6a, as drafted, is appropriate. It would probably be appropriate to think about it and, in the meantime, to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u231	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u232	I have before me an amendment No 45 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 64. Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u233	It aims to clarify the articulation of the exchanges between the municipalities and the EPCI of which they are members. Thus, the housing and land observatories will have to provide the municipal council with the elements that will enable it to deliberate, in particular those relating to the possible gap between the objectives of housing construction included in the local housing programme – PLH – and the number of dwellings achieved. The Community Council will thus be able to incorporate the relevant elements in its annual deliberations on the implementation of the HPL.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u234	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support sub-amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u235	Once again, we were forced to table a sub-amendment, since the adoption of Amendment No 45 would bring down the following amendments. Amendment No 45, as drafted, raises the question of the freedom of municipalities and the charges imposed on them. My sub-amendment is intended to replace in the amendment the word "made" with the word "can". At a time when our local and regional authorities are demanding less administrative burden, this annual report should not be made mandatory for all the municipalities of the EPCI. It would be preferable to take into account the size of the communes in order not to impose inappropriate constraints on them all. Let us consider the case of a village of 100 inhabitants, whose PLH would not provide for the construction of any housing. His mayor would be required to put on the agenda every year a debate on these dwellings which are not built or whose construction is not planned. You can imagine the crazy nature of such a situation! Although an annual report may be useful in large or tense municipalities, where there are housing production targets, it would not be appropriate everywhere. In some intercommunalities, there are very small communes that do not demand these additional burdens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u238	Amendment No 45 by the UDI-Agir Group is welcome...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u239	You co-signed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u240	... since it is in line with what was foreseen by the committee which accepted it. It simplifies and organizes the flow of information between the PLH, the municipalities and the EPCI in a clearer way. Mr Bazin, the deliberations of the municipal council provided for in Amendment No 45 take place only when there is a housing and land observatory which is compulsory only in tense areas. I can't imagine that the small town of 100 inhabitants that you mentioned could be in a tense area. And if it is, it is that housing is an issue and, in this case, it should be mentioned in municipal council. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on this sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u242	The Government issued a wisdom opinion on Amendment No. 45. In my experience in this area, and contrary to the rapporteur's assertion, adding the obligation of a municipality's decision would not be a guarantee of greater fluidity while intercommunality would remain the ultimate decision-making factor. Nevertheless, I rely on the wisdom of the House on this matter. This opinion leads me to express an opinion which is unfavourable to the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u243	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u244	[[Smile]] Mr Minister, if your majority is overwhelmed by the minority group of the majority, it would be better to avoid the worst by adopting my sub-amendment, on which you could issue a favourable withdrawal notice! Mr rapporteur, I would ask you to take into account the case of the communities which have chosen, without being forced to do so, to set up HPLs and which have land observatories without being in a tense area. Since not all the articles of the bill are consistent with each other, the amendment would create an annual deliberative obligation for these communities. It doesn't make any sense. I would ask you to take this into account in order to provide for an obligation in tense areas, including for small communes, but not in all communities with a land observatory, because sometimes they exist in a relaxed area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u245	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u246	The rapporteur has made very clear points: today it is simply a matter of fluidising the provisions of Article 7, in order to better define the role of the community in the articulation of the arrangements. The diagram starts from the observatory, goes to the commune and finally to the intercommunality, which appreciates the situation. It is simply a question of respecting the role that the municipalities must play and not of dispossessing the stakes of the PLH.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u247	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u248	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u249	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 7. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u250	Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group could not deal with this proposal for a law aimed at reducing the cost of land and increasing the supply of housing accessible to the French without mentioning the case of areas in high tension, such as Corsica. This amendment proposes to identify and delimit areas within the local planning plan and under the definition of Corsica's development and sustainable development plan, in which social ownership, sustainable economic activities and social housing would be exclusive. This measure would respond to an increasing tension in Corsica, linked to the disproportionate share of secondary residences. These account for 37% of dwellings, compared with 8.9% in metropolitan France. In addition, one in five Corsicans lives below the poverty line and the median annual income in Corsica is around 18900 euros, compared with 20300 euros in metropolitan France. Finally, I would like to recall the information provided by the Observatory for Property and Real Estate Markets, set up by the Corsican community: in ten years, the cost of housing has increased twice as fast on the island as on the continent, with increases of 68% and 36% respectively. The cost of land increased four times faster than on the continent, with an increase of 138 per cent, compared to 64 per cent. Finally, the social housing rate is lower, at 10 per cent compared to 17 per cent. All these elements create an unprecedented social, economic and cultural divide in an island-mountain which, by its very nature, suffers from a situation of scarcity of land. There are fewer spaces available for urbanisation than in mainland France. The proposal to define these areas in LRPs, in conjunction with the PADDUC, aims to regulate this situation strongly, in favour of social ownership, social housing and permanent activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u251	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u252	Indeed, Corsica is a tense area, in particular because it has large agglomerations, coastal areas and mountain areas: it is therefore in three ways that it is tense, and this subject needs to be addressed with precision. You are proposing to introduce restrictions on secondary residences. In law, such a provision is not a priori possible; It is in the tax field. In any event, and as we have already mentioned in committee, a residence may be secondary one day, principal on another day, and then become secondary later. It is impossible to qualify such a criterion. Finally, by going up this qualification to the PADDUC level, you place it at a level that is not the right one: it would rather be at the level of the LRP or the community issuing the building permit. The committee confirms its opinion against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u254	I remember very well our discussions on this subject during the discussion of the ELAN law. As the rapporteur has pointed out, several difficulties need to be overcome. One of them concerns the reference urban planning document: should it be the PADDUC or the PLU? We have already talked a lot about it, and I will not go back to it. The main difficulty raised by this institutional document is that one cannot be certain, when a building permit is deposited, that a residence declared to be a secondary residence will not become principal a few days later – and vice versa. This is why it is extremely difficult to limit secondary residences and to promote primary residences in certain territories. This can be done in the context of development projects, but prospectively, in the field. At the moment, we have not yet found the solution, fiscal or legislative, to prevent what you denounce. I understand your concern very well, but the amendment you are proposing will not solve this problem. The declaration of a dwelling as a secondary or principal residence may vary very quickly. In concrete terms, a person who absolutely wants to build a secondary residence could house his son, daughter, cousin or cousin there. This house would have a secondary residence use, but your amendment would be bypassed. I therefore call for the withdrawal of the amendment, which unfortunately does not provide a satisfactory solution. We must continue to work to find other solutions, including coercive ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u255	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u256	First of all, I would like to remove a confusion. When I refer to the articulation between the PADDUC and the PLUs, I strictly fit into the current legislative framework: under my amendment, the PADDUC "defines criteria" to create the zones, while the PLUs "identify" and "demarcate" the zones. It is therefore not the PADDUC which grants the building permit, but the mayor or the president of the intercommunality in case of intercommunal PLU. I repeat, my amendment strictly respects the institutional framework and the law in force. Furthermore, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, you have raised a problem with regard to secondary residences and principal residences. On this subject, I was very amused by the debate that we have seen on the Airbnb rentals in Paris: all the candidates for the next election were there to discuss the issue of regulation and the possibility for the mayor to cap the rentals of the main residences at 60 nights instead of 120 nights a year, because of economic and tourist pressure reducing the number of permanent dwellings available and hindering the accession to the property. This debate therefore exists elsewhere than in Corsica, including for territories with special statutes such as Île-de-France. However, my amendment does not mention the number of secondary residences before or after the vote of the PADDUC, but the areas in which the new constructions would be exclusively intended for the social acquisition of property, under agreements, social housing or any economic activity outside the general distribution. This kind of project cannot come about spontaneously because we are in a very constrained situation of rarity of land and that, given the prices per square metre in France that I have quoted, real estate transactions will always be much more profitable than any social property acquisition or social housing project. If we cannot regulate through taxation – we have been denied tax provisions specific to secondary residences – or through spatial codification, it will be a dead end. In the impasse, I warn you, the feeling of dispossession will grow. And there'll be a reaction. I invite you to read my amendment well. You will see that it is entirely within the framework of the existing law. At one point, there is a need to address the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u257	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u258	Quite frankly, after listening to Mr Acquaviva and reading the summary statement of his amendment, I find his arguments extremely convincing. How can we fail to take into account a particularity which our colleague has described very well, with high proportions of secondary residences and strong speculative pressure? It is necessary to return to the basis of the bill, which aims to regulate land prices and to allow the construction of affordable housing. In the present case, Amendment No 22 targets social ownership: it does not allow for speculation or the development of tourism, since social ownership is reserved exclusively for owner-occupiers, i.e. for people who will live in this housing all year round.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u259	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u260	[[Ms. Sylvia Pinel applauds]] The same applies to social housing, by definition. We see, therefore, that this amendment, which is very relevant, contributes to the objective of the bill, which aims to regulate land and direct housing production to more reasonable prices and to the public who need it most – in this case, the workers and the inhabitants of the island who wish to stay there and live there with dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u261	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u262	We want to take advantage of this bill, which is in line with the measures of the ALUR law on the public control of land, to clarify the provisions on the right of preemption exercised by the municipality and the EPCI. In fact, despite a few amendments adopted under the ALUR Act, things are not quite clear: it happens that, on a property likely to be preempted, a municipality blocks the purposes of an EPCI. I therefore submit to you a proposal of extreme clarity: in the interests of simplification and clarification of competences, when a property is linked to a competence assigned to the EPCI, it must be the responsibility of the EPCI to exercise the right of preemption. I had tabled the same amendment – but it fell – for the common goods without masters, often mobilized through intercommunal efforts, which fall back into the scarlet of a commune when they could help with an operation of vineyard plantations or land reorganization on the banks of a river, for example. In other words, the principle of a right of preemption that benefits the EPCI first if the good in question falls within the scope of its powers seems to me to be in the direction of modernity and exercise by the territories of the public authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u264	Disadvantaged, to the extent that this amendment could lead to adverse competition between pre-emptive communities and other communities that may exercise a right of priority. We will no longer know who really has the right of preemption. Today, if necessary, he can be delegated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u265	Of course, but it is at the initiative of the commune!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u267	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u268	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u269	I totally disagree with the rapporteur. The delegation of the right of preemption depends on the will of the municipality which holds it. Thus, a municipality can block a collective project involving a competence exercised by the EPCI: it is amazing! This really needs to be changed: the acquisition of property without master and the exercise of the right of preemption must be brought back to the Community level once an EPCI has adopted a decision on these strategic axes. You know as I do the reality of the field: we cannot rely on the will of the commune.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u270	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u271	This amendment, of which Ms. Sandra Marsaud is the first signatory, aims to strategically evolve the tools at the service of local habitat policies by creating a link between the LRP and the HLP. We note that many territories are not covered by an HLP or a HDP – a departmental habitat plan – which prevents us from having a coherent vision of their needs. However, the PDHs are mandatory documents under the Act of 13 July 2006 on national commitment to housing. That is why we propose a deadline for the establishment of an HDP, set on 1 January 2022. The signatories of this amendment see this as the key to a policy of spatial planning that is balanced between tense and relaxed sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u272	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u273	Article L. 302-11 of the Construction and Housing Code already provides that the PDHs must be put in place everywhere in France, for a period of six years. A priori, the amendment is therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u275	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u276	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u277	Thank you, rapporteur, for that clarification. Indeed, HDPs are mandatory documents, but no deadlines have been set by law, so many territories do not have them. There is therefore an urgent need to deploy them everywhere. Mrs Marsaud has not left me any particular instructions, so I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u278	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 36 to delete Rule 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u279	The purpose of this amendment is to remove the guarantee of the bill. Since the latter does not incur any new expenditure, I propose that section 8 be deleted. I am aware that the creation of the fund for the clean-up of wastelands, which could be financed by partners other than those whose social purpose it would be, is likely to have financial implications. That does not prevent me from proposing the deletion of Article 8, while drawing everyone's attention to the possible impact of Article 4, which we will have to discuss over and over again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u281	I welcome this deletion amendment, which demonstrates the Government's desire for the earliest possible implementation of the bill. I therefore call on all Members to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u282	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u283	Minister, it is indeed desirable to raise the pledge – that is what happens when a proposal is considered until it is voted on. However, you said that this text did not create new expenses. This is not true: it creates new burdens, new obligations for the communities, which will inevitably lead to new expenditure, albeit modest, but which will still be able to represent, in some territories, a few thousand euros – this is not negligible. I understand that the government will not provide any funding to the communities that will assume these new burdens, while housing problems must concern us all. In Article 4, you ask Housing Action to manage a fund; This is not part of the objectives contained in the investment pact that you signed with the association, which has a lot to do elsewhere. It is also a matter of respecting the governance of this structure! You're going a long way. This raises a real question as to the need for additional funding for Housing Action by the State, which asks it to carry out additional tasks. Finally, if communities are allowed to buy land at a controlled price, it will also be necessary to raise funds. Indeed, the creation of land reserves as envisioned in Article 6 bis requires a great deal of money. Land porting is very expensive and the State must be able to make this equitable development throughout our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u284	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u285	I do not resist the pleasure of stressing that our colleague Thibault Bazin is in line with the Government. I would remind him, however, that there are many mechanisms for creating land reserves, whether in state-owned public land establishments or in local public land establishments, which are also financed, in particular by development taxes and part of local taxation. Therefore, there is no need to commit additional funds. I would also like to respond to Mr. Minister's wink with regard to Article 4. The parliamentary shuttle should be started by considering this article as an urgent appeal from the national representation to move forward on the issue of wasteland. Housing action is certainly not the right vector. As the Minister suggested earlier, the Bank of the Territories could be mobilised, subject to funding and a timetable for the implementation of this funding. By second reading, let us ensure that the situation is clarified for the communities. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] On behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, I welcome the excellent work done not only by our colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize, but also on all the benches of national representation, in connection with the departments of the ministry and your cabinet, Mr Minister – all the measures imagined by the Members of the nation could not have been realized today without your help.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u286	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u287	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Dominique Potier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u288	I once again welcome – I have already done so in the general discussion – the state of mind that prevails when considering the MODEM Group's bills,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u289	Too bad those of other groups do not get the same treatment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u290	... and especially during the discussion of this text by Jean-Luc Lagleize. I also welcome the expert work and proposals of our rapporteur. I regret that we have made more repleasures here and there than recasts, but meetings have been made with Minister Julien Denormandie, on various important issues, with a view to modernising public action and making it more fair and stronger in our territories. I take note of these meetings, with which the opposition may be associated, on the subjects we have discussed. A final look at the costs of land reserves and clean-up activities: yesterday, at the excellent symposium entitled "Share and protect the land – Advocacy for a new land law", held in Victor Hugo Hall, an academic quoted the work of Thomas Piketty. While land in the 18th century accounted for 20 per cent of the total value of market goods, today it represents only 1 per cent. It is therefore not impossible to socialize it, as we are doing with this bill: it is a matter of will. The stakes are crucial, both for the "power to live" and for the sharing of our commons, that is to say agricultural and natural land, which we will need terribly to solve the climate equation, as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – IPCC – once again recalled yesterday, in these walls, by presenting its special report on climate change and land. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you again for this work. The Socialist and Related Group will vote on this bill and we will meet you to deepen this topic and make public action fairer and stronger.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u291	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u292	I said earlier, on the occasion of the general discussion, how much the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left appreciated the work as much as the method of the rapporteur Jean-Luc Lagleize; I do not hide, however, that I feel a certain disappointment at the end of this morning's sitting, as the Government's amendments and those of the majority group have detrigued an already very modest piece of legislation in view of the proposals in the report which Mr Lagleize has just submitted to the Prime Minister and which have not been taken up precisely in the hope of achieving a more limited but concrete step forward. I regret, for example, that the proposal for the return of property gains to the municipalities has not been accepted, even though this would have been a way to reverse the very bad decision of the Government to abolish the aid to mayors building, which is in addition to the abolition of the housing tax and the exemption from the property tax on properties built on social housing for twenty-five years. As a result, cities are no longer at all encouraged to build when our country is experiencing a housing crisis. I would also like to say that I do not understand the decision of the services of the sitting to oppose the inadmissibility of Article 40 of the Constitution to an amendment on the right of preemption which I had tabled with Mr Acquaviva and which the committee had considered admissible since it is not at all an expenditure but a request for the extension of the right of preemption of local authorities. It's absolutely abnormal. This bill, already limited in relation to the recommendations of Mr Lagleize's report, was at least concrete: after it was emptied of most of its substance in the sitting, something very minimal was achieved. That is why, when I said in committee that I would vote for the bill, I find myself unable to approve a text reduced to the congruous portion because it has been abused by the Government and the majority, and now too minimal to have my consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u293	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u294	Our discussions have been very constructive and the text responds to expectations in the area of housing. It provides tools to combat land speculation and must allow for the purchase of housing under acceptable financial conditions. It also provides real support to local and regional authorities. The Group of the European People's Party wishes to acknowledge all the work that has been done by our colleague and the MODEM Group, as well as by the Minister and his cabinet. We hope, however, that we will be able to return to Article 4 during the parliamentary shuttle, because the Housing Action tool does not seem to us to be suitable for financing a wasteland clean-up fund which is not part of its tasks, as its representatives had told us during our hearings. In any event, the members of the working group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u295	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u296	The Libertés et Territoires Group regrets the turn taken by our debates this morning, when the rapporteur, as part of the mission entrusted to him by the Government, had done an excellent job and proposed many very concrete solutions to combat real estate speculation and reduce land costs, which are recurrent and extremely worrying for many territories. While the bill did not fully reflect the recommendations of the report, some of them taxed, while others were not sufficiently refined, it included particularly effective and relevant complementary provisions. That is why we were able to say in committee that our group agreed to these provisions. This morning, however, the amendments of the majority group and those of the Government weakened the text by emptying it from its substance. I am thinking of Article 1 or Article 5, for example, which, ladies and gentlemen, met with a strong expectation from the elected representatives of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u297	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u298	With regard to Article 4, the financing of clean-up of waste land by Housing Action was perhaps not the best solution, but as we know, the shuttle will allow us to improve this mechanism. While the rapporteur's work had made it possible to enhance the role of Parliament, I consider this to be in contradiction with what had been achieved. Finally, Mr Minister, my colleagues in Corsica would be angry if I did not say that the very particular situation in this territory deserved a special solution. I have heard your commitment to work with the elected representatives and the community of Corsica on this issue and I urge you to do so: there is an urgent need and the elected representatives of Corsica are waiting for action rather than words on this issue. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] For these reasons, our group will, regrettably, abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u299	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u300	I, too, would like to welcome the work of our rapporteur and this bill. We can indeed welcome the progress made in this text with regard to a social issue which concerns us all and concerns many of our fellow citizens. However, I also regret that the original text, which had, however, gained a broad consensus in committee, is weakened by the amendments of the majority and the Government. It is not, of course, a matter of hearing a trial before the hour, minister, but of expressing concern about our ability to legislate again in a particularly busy timetable, when the parliamentary shuttle would probably have been enough. That said, Minister, you have committed yourself to the strong expectations that remain. We will therefore pay attention to the simplification measures you announced during the general discussion. They are of importance and of course expected. Since the IUD Group, acting and independent, has always supported simplification measures in the area of housing, this support obviously applies to this text proposed by the MODEM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u301	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u302	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u303	The Republicans Group could only share the objectives of this bill: to limit the cost of land, to facilitate and to strengthen the supply of affordable housing, but the various arrangements that were finally voted on proved to be insufficient, despite some interesting avenues. The resulting text is a reflection of the policy that you are leading: it forgets the reality of a number of territories in France. This is a real problem: there is still no planning policy that can strengthen the attractiveness of our territories that need it. You are creating new burdens for some communities, which is also a real problem. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In view of the real objective, which would be to solve the demand, decisions such as the abolition of the LPA accession or the double division of the zero-rate loan quota for more than 90% of the territory raise questions. You have a problem with property and ownership. It is time to change politics and allow the French to realize this dream. That is why we will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u304	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u305	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 80 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 80 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u306	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u307	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] First of all, I would like to thank all the Members present here, and especially the rapporteur, for all the work he has been doing on this subject for several months. Contrary to what some might have said, this text really goes in the right direction, even if it can be judged that it does not go far enough on this or that point. When, as Article 1 does, we put an end to the auction with the guarantee that we can go all the way to the end, I think it goes deeply in the right direction without falling back in any way in view of the original ambition. These famous OFLs that you voted for will be a date as the OFS did in their time. We can always judge that we need to go even faster and that the order is not necessarily the best means, but what is certain is that we took four years to create the OFS. That we have a vector that allows us to set up the LFOs as quickly as possible, I think it is a huge step forward. With regard to the consultation of the areas, I also have the impression that you have provided important answers this morning. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We can always find that things are not going far enough or fast enough, but I believe that if everything that has been voted on is implemented very quickly, it will mean a lot of significant changes for many territories and I would like to thank you very warmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u308	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and several of his colleagues to respond to the demand of patients through the creation of points of reception for immediate care (No. 2226, 2428).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u309	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u310	Mr President, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the bill that I have the honour to defend on behalf of the MODEM Group, which aims to respond to the demand of patients through the creation of reception points for immediate care, the SIAPs. If, when you leave our Chamber, you fall down the stairs – which I do not wish you to do – and this fall causes an ankle pain preventing you from walking, or a bloody wound at the forehead or elbow, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u311	[[Smile]] Get me shot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u312	If by bad luck your doctor is not available, you will have no choice but to call the 15 that will direct you to the emergency room. Why do our fellow citizens agree to wait for three, four, six hours in the emergency room? Because, faced with the anxiety of pain, they want a quick response and diagnosis by a doctor who can, if necessary, use medical imaging, biological analysis – or simply sterile equipment to make a suture. General practitioners, while able to make a diagnosis or perform such care, cannot satisfy this need for an immediate response because they do not have the necessary technical platform, whether it is radiology, biology or sterile material. To allow the general medicine of the city to respond quickly to these pathologies by adominating its work of guarding a technical plateau: this is the spirit of this modest bill. With more than 21 million visits per year, compared to 10 million in 1995, emergency services in our hospitals are now being overly sought by patients who are expressing an increasing demand for unscheduled care. Several factors help explain this: medical scarcity of course, but also the ageing of the population and, above all, the need for an immediate response in terms of diagnosis and overall management. According to the DREES surveys – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health – almost 60% of patients go to the emergencies not for a vital or serious reason of emergency, but because the care is accessible and they can quickly carry out additional examinations. The most recent reports confirm that the emergency services provide an increasing number of unscheduled care, which is not part of their mission. I will not insist on the consequences of this development, which you know as well as I do: emergency services engorged, staff on the brink of exhaustion and a heavy additional cost. What response can city medicine provide to this situation? Despite the interesting solutions experienced in recent years to strengthen the offer of unscheduled city care – multi-professional health homes, daycare homes, community hospitals – the offer remains "insufficient and disparate", to quote the report that our colleague Thomas Mesnier devoted to the first access to care. Moreover, as the Court of Auditors observes, the absence of technical platforms raises questions about the real usefulness of the scheme. This is precisely one of the reasons why generalists struggle to meet the demand of patients. As modest as it is, our bill is of importance to our fellow citizens. It derives from the experiments that have been carried out and evaluated in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region: in some structures, general practitioners receive without appointment, during specified time zones, patients whose condition requires immediate care without vital emergency. They perform first-use procedures through a light technical platform, while patients have access to complementary tests – biological or radiological – and are referred, if necessary, to a specialist or hospital. This effective device helps relieve emergencies. Our bill recommends that structures of this nature, the reception points for immediate care – PASI – be labeled on the basis of a national specification defined by order of the Minister responsible for health. This PASI label, which will make it possible to identify them clearly, could be formalized by an orange cross, counterpointing the green cross of pharmacies and the red cross of emergencies. Thus, SIAPs will help to break the territory of an unscheduled, graduated care offer. As you know, the Committee on Social Affairs has done important work on the basis of a comprehensive drafting amendment which I have proposed following the hearings of stakeholders on the ground, with many Members, but also meetings with the cabinets of the Minister responsible for health and the Prime Minister. We agreed on a drafting satisfactory to all. By aiming for a more open, multi-professional and coordinated exercise of health actors, the mechanism that we are submitting to you pursues the objectives set out in the recently adopted Law on the Organization and Transformation of the Health System, which reflects the Government's strong ambition to introduce flexibility into the health system and to give priority to initiatives on the ground. It is precisely in this context that this bill is being proposed. The text adopted by the Commission expressly states that the territorial occupational health communities – CPTS – are the origin of the ISPs, and that their creation and operation will have to be part of the health project of one or more ISPs or in the territorial health projects, TSPs. Since the signing last June of the interprofessional agreement for the development of the coordinated exercise and deployment of the CPTS, the latter can organise themselves, voluntarily, at the initiative of the health professionals of the territories, to build a coordinated offer of care. They will gradually join forces with other actors – health institutions, community hospitals – to take on three core tasks, including patient access to care and, in particular, improved care for unscheduled care. These are all eminently positive developments. I will propose an amendment – which the Committee on Social Affairs, meeting under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, accepted yesterday – to include the creation and operation of the ISAP either in the health project of a CPTS or in a PTS. In order not to delay the launch of this relevant mechanism, it seems to me necessary that the Director General of the Regional Health Agency – ARS – can take the initiative to label such a structure when the CPTS is not yet constituted or has not yet developed its PTS, or in the absence of PTS. This scheme aims to provide more flexibility and must be able to be deployed quickly. Finally, I would like to thank members of all groups for their constructive attitude throughout the review of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u313	A very constructive attitude!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u314	[[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I also thank the Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health for the goodwill with which they welcomed our bill. It is, of course, modest, but I am sure that it will be the end of a deployment of the CPTS and, above all, that it will enable a better-equipped general medicine to respond quickly to the pressing demands of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u315	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u316	I thank you, Mr rapporteur, for drawing our attention to a major issue, access to unscheduled care, which the Government has made a priority in the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020 – which the Assembly adopted in new reading last Tuesday – or by taking measures for emergency services recently. In this, our only goal is to put the health system back on track. Everyone has images of saturated services in mind. If these images are not new, they reflect the changes that affect our society. The reassuring figure of the family doctor, who can be reached at any time of the day and night, making decisions about the health needs, has lost his evidence for many French. Moreover, it no longer responds to the legitimate conception that new generations of doctors are forging of their professional practice. Having lost this landmark, many French people express difficulties in finding themselves in the health care system. Minister Agnès Buzyn and I both know how liberal doctors are mobilizing today and are ready to do so even more tomorrow, especially within the framework of the CPTS that is emerging across the country, to ensure everyone's access to a treating physician. This fight is fundamental, because the treating physician is – and must remain – the guarantee of long-term follow-up, of comprehensive care that integrates both a preventive and curative dimension, and of good patient orientation in the health care system. Without a treating physician, medical error becomes more acute, patients no longer have anyone to turn to, and emergencies become both the first and the last resort – in reality, they appear to many as the only recourse. The result is a congestion of the emergency services, which puts negative pressure on all actors. I'm coming to your bill. I welcome the substantive work you have done, honourable Member, to develop an operational text aimed at bringing greater clarity to the health system. I welcome all those who have enriched this text or who, through their work – I am thinking in particular of Thomas Mesnier, who has studied the subject at length – have made it possible to establish a reliable diagnosis and to develop concrete solutions for access to care. To avoid congestion in emergencies, you are advocating the creation of a new category of health facilities, halfway between traditional general medicine and emergency services, known as "the point of reception for immediate care". This category seems relevant to us, as many emergency admissions do not meet the criteria for emergency medicine. Through RHAs, the aim will be to label, for a period of five years, structures capable of receiving patients in unscheduled care, when situations do not meet the criteria of emergency medicine. Graduation of care must not be a technical or even abstract notion: it must be a reality on the ground. From this point of view, your bill is a very concrete tool to provide a fair and relevant response. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Subject to certain practical arrangements for labelling, which are still to be defined, we will respond favourably to your bill, which continues and complements the Government's action in the field of access to unscheduled care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u317	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1087.u318	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill to respond to the patient's demand through the creation of points of reception for immediate care. The meeting is adjourned.
