ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft organic law amending the status of autonomy of French Polynesia (Nos. 1695, 1821), and of the draft law introducing various institutional provisions in French Polynesia (Nos. 1696, 1820). This morning the Assembly begins to hear the speakers in the joint general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u2	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u3	I greet the Minister for Overseas Affairs, the rapporteur, whom I request to receive my friendly wishes for prompt recovery, ladies and gentlemen, and of course also very warmly greet all the Polynesians who may listen to us with a little time lag. It is a long history that binds in a common destiny France and Polynesia, the overseas country "within the Republic", to use the terms of article 74 of the Constitution. With 118 islands, 280,000 inhabitants – even a little more –, French Polynesia occupies a strategic space within the Pacific. This exclusive economic zone accounts for almost 50% of the French exclusive economic zone, the world's second largest maritime area. At the heart of the Pacific, this strategic area is now coveted by a number of countries. China, as clear as it is from the outset, is shifting its influence more or less sharply, but, in fact, more and more strongly. It is important to have these elements in mind as we approach the examination of texts that aim to clean up – they even go beyond – a status that is already about fifteen years old. Before I come back, I want to give a historical perspective to our debates. Because a statute is cold, because a statute, by definition, is legal, I wish, by tracing a history that is sometimes tumultuous and complicated, made up of clashes and misfortunes, to place at the centre of our debates the men and women who have lived and built this adventure, and who are today the foundation of a common destiny. This common destiny must remain so. I immediately register falsely against the UN resolution of 17 May 2013, at the risk of frustrate some of you whom I respect otherwise, they know. Polynesia and Hexagon share a history of centuries, which cannot be wiped out with a back of hand. This story began in the 18th century, with opposition between the British and the French, but the events of 1842, evoked this morning, marked a turning point. A protectorate will register the islands of the Wind, part of the Tuamotu Islands and the Austral Islands in a larger set. After the agreements with Queen Pomare IV, then those with King Pomare V, all the archipelagos will constitute the French Establishments of Oceania. I do not forget the contribution of the Polynesians during the war of 1914-1918. Nor do I forget, and perhaps we must remember with even more force, that the territory will be one of the first to join free France during the Second World War: it will send the volunteers of the Pacific battalion. I take this opportunity to greet the last veteran of this conflict from Polynesia. Today he is well advanced, and he deserves the consideration and respect of the Nation – I hope he listens to us or we will pass on our message to him. Yes, Polynesia, that's it too! The 1946 Constitution will recognize this first debt – I say "first debt" because we have a second debt that I will tell you about in a moment – by ending the particular colonial status of the indigenate, status of another time. The preamble to the Constitution of 27 October 1946 strongly affirms: "France forms a Union with the overseas peoples based on equal rights and duties, without distinction as to race or religion. Of course, this is true with respect for the institutions, and equal rights and duties must be emphasized. The French settlements in Oceania had lived. These vestiges of the French empire became an overseas territory in its own right, already recognized with specific legislative features, and with a special status taking into account its own interests within the framework of the Republic. These are the foundations of autonomy, singularity, and unity in diversity. I quickly move on to important stages in Polynesian history, from the law of 23 June 1956 called "Framework Law Defferre" to the law of 12 July 1977, which gave the archipelago for the first time a status of autonomy. Polynesia has since enjoyed increasing autonomy with the status of 1984, that of 1996, and then the organic law of 27 February 2004, which establishes the status of a broad autonomy resulting from the current status – even though the 2004 law has already undergone some changes to take account of reality. French Polynesia is indeed France, but it is tempting for some to consider that all this is far away and deserves little interest. It's obviously wrong for them to think that. This territory, which is more than a day away from the Hexagon, cannot be managed, administered or even considered as any other territory. This is unity in diversity, and this applies to Polynesia perhaps more than elsewhere. Of course, geography is important. I was referring to these millions of square kilometres, the 118 islets, but what about the air and digital opening up of tourism and the economy in general? We must also salute Polynesian culture, its contribution to the Nation and to our diversity, as it nourishes French plurality. The status of 2004 seems in many respects incomplete and rigid. Implementation difficulties have arisen, and sometimes special relationships in relatively recent years may have given rise to questions, which need not be denied. In any event, by debating today in our Chamber, after the debate in the Senate two months ago, the Republic fulfils a commitment of continuity. This commitment to continuity, the Republic took it at the signing of the Elysée Agreement, almost two years ago to the day, on March 17, 2017. This commitment binds the Republic to the elected representatives and to the territory of Polynesia. I take this opportunity to acknowledge the work of Mr.Édouard Fritch, president of the community, and Gaston Tong Sang, president of the Assembly of French Polynesia. This work leads us to review today a number of provisions, whether institutional or more ordinary. They concern the day-to-day functioning of the institutions and also some particular difficulties related to land ownership, the recognition of independent administrative authorities... All this forms a coherent whole, but it would be nothing without a central question on which we will be debating. Indeed, it is important to recall the indisputable contribution of Polynesia and its inhabitants to the success of French nuclear power, whether the text is normative or not, since our colleague Moetai Brotherson spoke about it this morning. I do not seek to glorify nuclear fire, but, without Polynesia, France would not have acquired the sovereignty, power, and independence that are its own and that strengthen our place within the UN system. They also greatly justify our position as a permanent member with the right of veto. So we have a second debt to Polynesia. France owes a second debt to one of its daughters, one of its sons, because we can express ourselves as in an extended family whose members need recognition from one another. Madam Minister, we ask you to make an additional editorial effort and to give more force to words and symbols, beyond even financial recognition, compensation, and liability, which is obviously not insignificant. The words used could be even stronger, so that the debt is truly recognized and fully settled. The population and the elected representatives of Polynesia ask you, a little like in an advertisement that the under-20s cannot know: yet a little more! That was what it would take to achieve a perfectly balanced text. I think I'm an interpreter of many of us to say it forcefully. Thus, the texts before us reaffirm the place of Polynesia in the Republic. Overseas countries are an extraordinary opportunity for France, economic, geographical, cultural and strategic assets, but also assets in terms of biodiversity. The population of Polynesia needs an interest in it. It needs institutions that make it possible to move forward within a known framework. This is the subject of the two texts which we are considering. It is important to define specific competences, to have the respective modes of action of the State and the community, to determine the conditions for the application of laws and regulations in Polynesia, to govern the method of designation and the functioning of local institutions, and to avoid the possibility of a "trash government", to use the expression used by Edgar Faure in 1953 to describe the ministerial crises of the Fourth Republic. Let's avoid the tremors and fulfill the commitments of the March 2017 Elysée Accord! Let us also work, beyond the institutional framework of what is contained in the organic bill, to clarify a number of elements on the identification of ships, the issues of indivision – land problems often poison life in the overseas – or on issues of judicial sharing! So we find ourselves for what is not a simple grooming, but a vast construction site. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs. George Pau-Langevin also applauds]] In conclusion, I hope that, in the medium and long term, we can revise the status of Polynesia more broadly. More than successive tilings, in fact, we need to found a new pact with the territory and with its population around the notion of common destiny that I mentioned earlier, because, of course, Polynesia is the Republic, and the Republic cannot be full and complete without Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u4	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u5	I welcome the debate that brings us together today and the forthcoming adoption – at least, I hope – of two texts that are, for us, the texts of maturity for the recognition of French Polynesia in our Republic. I also welcome their review today, as they are the demonstration, the proof if necessary, that we know how to listen to the territories and make the decisions that are appropriate and necessary to them. According to us two terms define this new stage of the long relations between France of the continent and France of the archipelagos: respect and freedom. First of all, it is a matter of mutual respect, because the texts we are considering are the result of a lengthy listening and consultation with the Polynesian elected representatives, both members of the House of Commons and senators. Respect, above all, because by acknowledging the "contribution" – as it is agreed to call it – from French Polynesia to the construction of France's nuclear deterrent capacity, of which my colleague, Benoit Simian, will speak to you more cleverly than I am in a moment, we are gratifying in the organic law, at the top of our legislative order, this recognition by France of its entire debt towards Polynesia, Polynesians and Polynesians. This will also be done with the single allocation introduced by the ordinary bill. Compensation is also a testimony of respect. "Freedom" is the second term. In fact, today our Assembly will recognize new powers and organizational capacities for the communities of Polynesia so that they can respond more easily and freely to the skills that are theirs, thus committing themselves even more to a form of differentiation. My colleague Hubert Julien-Laferrière will certainly mention this point but, for my part, I would remind you that it is above all in the draft organic law that provisions have this object: we will, for example, in the very particular institutional context of this territory, recognize the capacity of municipalities and intercommunalities to contribute in a complementary way to the action of French Polynesia. The aim of the ordinary bill is to promote the joint work of Polynesian communities by providing them with access to effective and appropriate tools, such as open joint unions or mixed-economy societies. We all know that fluid intercommunal cooperation is a welcome contribution to Polynesia as well as to mainland France. But in this "double island" territory, as Maina Sage likes to recall, it is doubly a challenge to want to work together for the best common: on the one hand, we had to take into account the local specificity, French Polynesia living in a particular pattern in terms of the distribution of competences, different from that we know in Hexagon, on the other hand, to give finally flexibility to enable local elected officials to carry out their projects. Clause 1 of the ordinary bill, which has been redrafted by senators, fully meets this dual objective. This text also addresses the thorny problem of land indivision – on which we started working in 2018, Mr.Rapporteur remembers – and, in doing so, we are providing a comprehensive, coherent and adapted solution to the Polynesian territory as it is today. And I would like to point out that this result is to be credited with the joint parliamentary work of the Senate and the National Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups. – Mr. Philippe Gosselin also applauds]] In conclusion, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that these bills are two fundamental pieces of legislation for French Polynesia, since it will have even more institutional means to build its future. They mark that the nation recognizes French Polynesia as a full member of the Republic, one and indivisible but open to territorial, social and cultural difference, to everything that makes a people proud of its roots, soothed by the recognition of its specificities and confident in the future. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to recognize the place of French Polynesia in the history and functioning of our republic by voting without reservation on these two texts which have emerged from the work of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u6	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u7	When we think of French Polynesia, we see landscapes renowned for their beauty, peoples associated with grace that seduced Gauguin, Brel and so many others... But it is also a vast set of territories such as the European Union, where poverty is very present, an overseas community with wide autonomy under article 74 of the Constitution, defined by its statute as "an overseas country within the Republic". The current status of French Polynesia, which dates back to 2004, had so far been changed twice: in 2007 and 2008. For several years, adjustments to this status have been expected; They were the subject of extensive negotiations and a long consultation with the previous government, which led to the signing of the Elysée agreements with President François Hollande on 17 March 2017, to the great satisfaction of the President of French Polynesia, Mr.Édouard Fritch. These two texts are the legislative translation. They mark a continuity in the relations between French Polynesia and the state which I think is very good. This legislative translation is set out in an organic bill on the status of autonomy and an ordinary bill to amend various institutional provisions. The Senate, seized the first as a representative of the local authorities, unanimously adopted the organic bill on first reading by a solemn vote of 343 votes and, in the meantime, the second by show of hands. His work in clarifying the two texts and in finalizing their legal formulation should be commended. The first measure of this reform, enshrined in article 1 of the draft organic law, has a symbolic scope: it is the recognition of the contribution of French Polynesia to the construction of French nuclear deterrence. From 1966 to 1996, the atolls of Mururoa and Fangataufa were the scene of 193 nuclear tests, which had an impact on the health and environment of the population. This article, without being purely normative, seems to me to be extremely important because it is a long-awaited statement of principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u9	Indeed, for years, after demanding the end of the nuclear tests, the Polynesians demanded compensation for the damage caused to their environment and to the health of the people. For if this period has been a source of power for the French State, it has brought them suffering and disease. The role played by that territory in the construction of the French nuclear deterrent capacity should therefore be expressly recognized in a text, as well as the commitment to repair the consequences of nuclear tests. Some may say that the wording proposed here is not as satisfactory as it should be, but if the Polynesian elected representatives have led to it after lengthy negotiations with representatives of the State, who are we to decide in their place in favour of another formulation? This article in its current form suits me quite well. Thanks to this declaration of principle, the overall allocation of autonomy allocated to the territory is strengthened: it is a question of avoiding difficult and recurrent discussions with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which regularly tries to nibble the endowments without taking into account their symbolic value in the light of the reparations. Thanks to this organic bill, this recognition implies that the consequences of testing must be taken into account in all areas, far beyond the compensation of victims alone. I would remind you that this process of compensation, which began with the Morin Act of 2010, has for a long time been without sufficient efficiency, since the conditions allowed almost all cases to be dismissed. Of course, since the 2017 Real Equality Overseas Act and the removal of the negligible risk condition, the situation has improved significantly, but it is even better to include it explicitly in the law. On the strictly institutional side, the reform toilets the status with the ambition to make it more functional and modern. It aims to further encourage cooperation between the municipalities and the community of Polynesia, such as the collection of local taxes and the allocation of powers. In order to promote the development of intercommunality, it is planned to redefine the competences of the communities of communes. In a logic of institutional stabilization, the mechanism of renewal of the assembly of French Polynesia is evolving. One remembers the time when the departure of a few members was enough to bring about a complete renewal, so that some elected officials could play it, at the cost of instability detrimental to the institution. Tomorrow, it will take a vacancy of at least one third of the seats – on the model of municipal councils. A remark in passing: these texts on Polynesia are a new illustration of the à la carte statutes that exist today throughout the overseas territories since each territory can now decide precisely how to operate, thus adapting to its history, geography and culture. It seems to me that this is a very sensitive evolution in relation to a period when the state said to them: "You are DOM or you are TOM, and the same as the others in each of these categories. Unlike this time, each territory chooses the best way to function. Another significant aspect of the text concerns land ownership, in this case the exit from the division and the transposition to French Polynesia of the Letchimy law. Indeed, in all the overseas countries, the problems of indivision are insoluble and detestable; But here, the land issue was particularly complex, since the colonizing State had assumed that it owned all the land unless private individuals could prove their right to property. I recall that in 2015, on the insistence of Maina Sage in particular, we voted for the establishment of a land court. Unfortunately, however, we are still far from it. It is therefore important that steps be taken to resolve the substance of the disputes. In addition, the assumption of legal fees by the community through the use of paid professionals seems to me to be a very significant innovation in view of the modest resources of the litigants. This general discussion is also an opportunity to recall that, thanks to the overseas countries, France can take advantage of an extremely extensive exclusive economic zone – the second or third of the world, our place ready for discussion with the Americans – and that French Polynesia accounts for 44% of the total, a very important contribution for our country. On the other hand, I would like to highlight an interesting innovation in how to regulate relations between communities and the state in relation to the rest of the world – the DOMs are so far more in advance –: from now on, French Polynesia, like the overseas departments, will be able to play its own role in international relations. It is true that French diplomacy had variously appreciated this opportunity given to the overseas countries to intervene in this area of regalism, but it is important because French Polynesia will thus be able to discuss equally with its neighbours and France will really be considered a state of the Pacific zone while its hexagonal territory is very far from this region of the world. Finally, note that the draft organic law deals with future issues such as the development of rare earths; We must welcome the solution to this problem by providing that their exploitation falls within the competence of French Polynesia. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – The rapporteur and Mr Philippe Gosselin also applaud]] These texts contain many original provisions to reinvigorate the local economic fabric and result from a thorough and confident dialogue between the state and the Polynesian elected representatives. Therefore, the Socialist and Related Group will vote favourably without seeking to amend them, because, in our view, amendments which would not result from exchanges between the main parties concerned would not have legitimacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u10	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u11	Five years ago, Polynesia took stock of the ten years of implementation of the last major reform, that of the Organic Law of 2004, which in fact organizes a status of autonomy opening up very wide possibilities under article 74 of the Constitution. This uncompromising assessment has enabled us to take stock of the major progress made, but also of the difficulties of application – I am thinking of the flaws in the sharing of competences. It was also an opportunity to take an in-depth look at the thirty years of autonomy. For having been there, I remember very well the session of the Assembly of French Polynesia which then allowed all the expertise to speak there. In particular, I retained a sentence from the Speaker of the Assembly at the time, who became president of Polynesia, Édouard Fritch, in my opinion, quite a founding phrase of what we are doing today: "The history of our autonomy is the history of the conquest of a certain form of freedom within Liberty itself, with a great L, proclaimed in our republican motto. Behind all conquest, there is often the fruit of work, of stubbornness, of suffering, of the effort of men and women who, at one point in our history, were led to fight for the conviction that the regency of local affairs from a capital far away from 18,000 kilometers became both a nonsense and an outdated and unproductive value. Yes, this anniversary [the thirty years of 1984 and the ten years of 2004] is therefore also that of these defenders of our personality, of our own identity, of this conviction that we will be able to assume ourselves and be worthy of the confidence of the Polynesians [...]". In fact, autonomy has been built for more than half a century. Our colleague Philippe Gosselin recalled that after the Second World War, a process of autonomy was initiated in all the Overseas Territories. I will make here an apart from the tribute given yesterday to Aimé Césaire. We must indeed pay tribute to all those men in this House who have fought for the emancipation of our territories. We are continuing this task with respect for the choices made then, but also for those made today by the elected representatives, who are truly the expression of democracy. Five years ago, after the consultations that were first conducted internally in Polynesia, with the ministries and departments concerned, and then with the Overseas Ministry, which I would like to pay tribute to. Minister, thank you and your teams for the partnership work that continued with the work of the previous two governments, including the Elysée agreements that you mentioned. These agreements led to the reform project discussed today. Of course, it does not constitute a revolution, and it has never been presented as such. Nor is it the constitutional evolution that some want, which I can understand – our colleague Moetai Brotherson, who comes from this minority of Polynesians with a different political will, has expressed himself in this direction. No, this text is not a revolution. Nevertheless, this reform involves three advances which I consider to be fundamental and which should be recalled. We can now have the impression that this reform project has not presented any difficulties. In fact, as Mr Fritch pointed out five years ago, discussions, which are almost fighting, are still necessary to make this difference recognised and to allow the law to be adapted. Indeed, we are doing very well the legislative work we are doing in this House, so that the system of law is effective and meets the needs of our people. The needs that we have at 18,000 kilometres from this House are obviously not the same as here, and my view of autonomy is perhaps more pragmatic, and less political. For me, this status is only a tool for the development and development of our territory. The autonomy of the territories, whether overseas or elsewhere, allows for adaptations and greater efficiency in the application of the law, as well as a better recognition of the wealth that France possesses in its diversity. One of the three major advances in this text, however, is symbolic or political: it is the recognition of our common history represented by the thirty years of nuclear testing. Polynesia extends over 5 million km2 of maritime space: you take half of Corsica and divide it into 118 small pieces that you spread over the surface of Europe – this is Polynesia. These elements of geography make it clear that it is necessary to adapt the law to our territory. I have forgotten a detail that is important: less than 300,000 inhabitants live on this set of islands. Polynesia, therefore, is 118 islands, five archipelagos, different groups of islands, atolls, but also distinct problems, languages and cultures. In Polynesia, all television newspapers are in French and Tahitian, and we are mostly bilingual. These are all realities that need to be taken into account. The Constitution allows us to do so, and this organic law must reflect this ability to adapt. To give you also an idea of the dimension, but also of the difficulties, of this territory, I would add that Polynesia has forty-seven airfields. Another figure should be recalled: the 193 nuclear tests that took place in Polynesia for 30 years. No, we are not doing a com'operation, as has been said earlier! This period has marked all Polynesians: 193 nuclear tests will never be forgotten. And I don't think that today we're turning the page because, to turn a page, we have to open the book. Perhaps that is what we have been doing for the last ten years, particularly with the important and courageous work carried out by the Assembly's committee of inquiry. In this connection, I am opening a parenthesis to pay tribute to the work done by the associative fabric, but also by the men and women politicians of that time, particularly within the independant clan, who are now fully joined by those who defend autonomy. I think this cause is transparant. Basically, what we want, by including this recognition in the organic law and, I hope, tomorrow in the Constitution, is that it is the subject of clear acts of reparation. This is at stake in the work we have undertaken with you. In this regard, I thank Senator Lana Tetuanu and our colleague Nicole Sanquer for their work, which ensures that, in addition to compensation for victims, health and environmental monitoring are carried out and that this responsibility is fully addressed, which we have not heard in any way in this section 1. It is clear, in any case, that in the majority in Polynesia, during the negotiations that took place, there was never any question of any division of responsibilities. However, I hear what has been said on both sides, because that is also our role. I recall the work that has been done. Many of you have been informed today of action by trade union groups and our representative in the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. I note that the term "contribution" is sensitive: we will come back to it later, when we consider the amendments. This text is also a significant step forward in that it will facilitate the relationship between the State, the country and the municipalities in the future. The use of electronic tools may seem simple, but it will have great consequences in a large territory like Europe. Progress on the exit of indivision is still essential. As you know, land in Polynesia is a major problem. We are regulating it here by means of amendments to the Civil Code which are extremely expected and which constitute the second part of a reform, the first part of which was the creation of the land court. To conclude, autonomy is built every day and stone stone. The one we bring today will certainly not be the last! [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mr. Philippe Gosselin also applauds]] We shall return to the various aspects of this text when we present our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u12	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u13	"Ia ora na" to all our Polynesian sisters and brothers! The Libertés et Territoires Group particularly supports these texts, although we know that the agreement on them is not complete in Polynesia, as our colleague Moetai Brotherson pointed out, which we listened carefully. We will be vigilant and ensure that Polynesian autonomy is realized. These texts are the result of a multi-year negotiation between the Polynesian leadership and the state, which resulted in the Elysée agreement signed on March 17, 2017. They are the legislative translation, as the Minister for Overseas Affairs recalled. We must welcome Article 1 of the draft organic law on the status, which recognizes France's nuclear debt to Polynesia, even if, as we must say, we still do not measure its normative scope. Its symbolic value is certainly very strong. It meets a particularly legitimate expectation of the Polynesians. The recognition by the State of all the victims of nuclear power is indeed indispensable for the progressive conclusion of this liability, whose environmental and socio-economic consequences are not yet fully measured. These consequences must, in our view, be distinguished: if some call for just compensation, others demand another form of reparation that must now be determined before it is given shape. This is why the definition in Article 1 of the three areas – health, environmental and economic – in which the necessary state support will now have to be translated is a first step forward. To all these victims, we owe better compensation: this is the least of all. The reference to the history of Polynesia and the evil that France's nuclear activity has done allows me to pay, once again, tribute to Edmond Simeoni and to the activists of Action for the Rebirth of Corsica, who, thanks to their mobilization, have failed the nuclear tests that the State planned at Argentella, near Galeria, in the 1950s. Thinking of what Corsica would have become if these trials had taken place makes me cold in the back, when I hear the consequences of those that the Polynesian people have suffered! I trust the minister and the elected representatives of Polynesia to implement the compensation. These exchanges must, however, be without taboos and by showing courage or even audacity for the well-being of the Polynesian people. As Mr Maina Sage pointed out, this text does not concern the issue of allocations alone, but rather places them in a larger package. In the following articles, it provides answers to the problems and burdens revealed by the fifteen years of practice of autonomy status in 2004. It thus makes corrections on the renewal of assemblies, in order to achieve a better stability, and it makes it possible to make use in Polynesia of the statutes of local public company – SPL – or of mixed economy company – SEM – which, in my view, are good management tools. A section also deals with the articulation of the communities of Polynesia and the creation of an intercommunality with Polynesian to respond to the peculiarities of this territory. It is easy to see that, given the size of Polynesia, the geographical constraints of insularity and the time taken to travel between the various poles, the municipality is an essential centrepiece of public action. You know that, as an elected member of Corsica, I am personally very much in favour of the independence status of Polynesia, its deepening and the necessary path to strengthen it, which Maina Sage referred to. I deliberately insist on the term autonomy, whose use in the title of this organic bill proves that autonomy exists in French constitutional law, contrary to what some members of the Government and, in particular, the President of the Republic have sought to make us believe. It was stated that autonomy is impossible. The assembly of Polynesia, however, votes different rules than those of the metropolis, which are adapted to its territory and which respond to different problems, a different history and a different culture. This autonomy has not been built without a legal framework: it is enshrined in the French Constitution, and it is in keeping with its spirit. Its inclusion in the Constitution gave rise to an organic law passed by the French Parliament, which resulted in a "small Constitution" of Polynesia, to echo the expression of one of our colleagues. In our view, autonomy is the basis of a peaceful relationship between the State and the communities – in this case, with the Polynesian people – each respecting the other because it is recognized in its differences and specificities. Corsica asks nothing more and nothing less – we just ask to be ourselves. So how can we not react to the President's statements, which threw oil on the fire, when he said loud and clear that if Corsica were to vote for these rules, it would no longer be the Republic? Is it necessary to infer that, in so far as Polynesia is voting its own rules, it is no longer the Republic? [[Smile]] On February 4, in Cuzzà, Corsica, President Emmanuel Macron made even more absurd remarks. He declared that he was not in favour of the autonomy of Corsica "without the Republic". But if this autonomy is not exercised in the French Republic, where will it be exercised? Certainly not on Mars! What we are calling for is the creation of a framework for negotiation or discussion that will lead to a status of autonomy for Corsica. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups. – Mr Fabien Roussel also applauds]] However, the subject under discussion today is Polynesia, with which we must be fully united. I shall therefore not extend myself further on this subject. Long live the Polynesian people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u14	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u15	Of course, I associate myself with everything my colleagues have said about the history and singularity of Polynesia. Having only five minutes to speak, I shall simply welcome these two texts, which represent a new important step in decentralization and, for Polynesia, another important step in its autonomy. In fact, there are plans for extended powers for the municipalities, for inter-municipal cooperation to accompany the development of Fenua and the archipelagos, for operational tools adapted to the Polynesian context and for a deepening of its status enabling it to fully assume its dual belonging to France and the Pacific. As we speak and debate these two bills, Polynesia is in the process of developing a general layout – a SAGE – that will allow all actors to share a strategy for the development and development of the country and of each of its archipelagos over the next two decades. The stakes are important: first, it is a more balanced development between the Wind Islands and the Wind Islands. It is in the context of the elaboration of this SAGE that the draft organic law extends within the framework of the laws of the countries the competences of the municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation in the fields of economic development, youth, sport, spatial planning, housing policy and the city, thus bringing them closer to those exercised in the metropolis or in the overseas departments and regions by these same communities. In a territory which, as has been said, is large like Europe, this stage of decentralisation is indeed indispensable in order to improve the effectiveness of the decisions taken in the framework of public policies throughout Polynesia. However, Madam Minister, I would like to focus on a point of local law that I believe requires some clarification that our present and future debates can bring. As you know, Article D. 111-1 of the French Polynesia Planning Code has established a somewhat unusual relationship between the country and the communes: the law of the country requires in fact a relationship of conformity between the local document, the general planning plan, and the regional document, the SAGE, whose elaboration, as I said, ends. This compliance report is necessary, as provided for in Article D. 113-2 of the same Code. This relationship is a little unusual in the light of our common law. Indeed, it imposes respect for the country's document in all respects and excludes any possibility of interpretation: from the legal point of view, this situation could be assimilated to one guardianship of one community over another, unlike what exists in the ordinary law, even overseas. I know, even though I know less of the history of Polynesia than some of our colleagues here, that this is explained by history: I do not know that the communes are recently built there, since the oldest have, because they have succeeded the districts which were administered by a named chief, only a few decades of existence. However, it seems to me that we could suggest to the representative of the State, when considering these two drafts, that we should apply a useful subsidiarity in view of the particular situation in the territory. However, these two texts undoubtedly give rise to many advances for this island area of the entire European area: the creation of independent administrative authorities, the pooling of resources for the production and distribution of electricity and the diversification of cooperation within open joint trade unions. In short, these are very important legal advances for the development of all the territories of Polynesia. I would like to conclude with the ecological imperative. The example of sanitation is quite obvious: if it falls within the competence of the communes, they still have, as you know, too few means to ensure it. One of the consequences of this situation is that all the municipalities of Polynesia – except Bora-Bora, for reasons of tourist attraction we know – are very late in this area and that the lagoons are affected by pollution. There is also a question of how, for example, an atoll can deal with sea level rise as a result of climate change. We see here that beyond the law, in my view, it will be necessary in the future to establish very proactive local public policies in all the territories of Polynesia. It turns out that 2019 marks the tenth anniversary of the convention signed on 9 October 2009 between the French state and Polynesia on sustainable development and the environment. The ten years of this Convention may be an opportunity to take stock of it in order to find new ways, given the ever-increasing ecological challenges. Another crucial and increasingly topical issue is the consideration of risk, particularly that related to floods or landslides. I do not have time to elaborate on this, since I see that my speaking time has expired. However, this raises the question of the involvement of national agencies such as the National Agency for Urban Renewal and the National Housing Agency. In fact, I asked you in writing, Madam Minister, about this question and about the particularities of the communities in section 74 of the Constitution: should we not ask ourselves the question of a specific agency that would intervene in matters of unsanitaryness both with the owner-occupiers and with the owner-donors, as well as on the space to be restructured?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u16	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would not, of course, like to conclude without commending the long consultation work carried out with the Polynesian elected representatives, which, Madam Minister, has led to a shared and balanced text which we will, of course, vote without restriction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u18	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u19	Let me begin by telling you how happy and proud I am to be here with you today to bring the voice of the La République group on these two texts so important for the future of French Polynesia and for our Polynesian friends whom I greet. Beyond surfing in Lacanau and Tahiti, my quasi-island territory, the Médoc, has some problems in common with Polynesia, especially in terms of spatial planning. I would also like to acknowledge the work we are doing with Maina Sage on our respective subjects, particularly in the face of the challenge of climate change. I know her particularly well about these texts, like her colleague Nicole Sanquer. I am certainly not an ultramarine elected official, but when we are like myself a Girondin, we are always happy to defend a bill to take into account the autonomy of a territory. While the organic and ordinary bills we are considering today do not constitute revolutions, they nevertheless reflect important developments. Their aim is indeed to translate the principle of territorial differentiation, to which I am particularly attached, and to act that a territory as specific as French Polynesia cannot be administered since Paris. Indeed, the consolidation of statutory autonomy must enable the institutions of Polynesia to be accompanied by a profound economic conversion, by giving them the legal and financial means to exercise their competences fully and more effectively. In addition, the new competences given to the municipalities, and the development of intercommunality, particularly in the economic, energy, infrastructure and education fields, must make it possible to reinvigorate the local economic fabric. In general, we can only welcome the discussion of these bills, which are the result of several years of work and exchanges between Polynesian elected officials, the state and local authorities. Without being able to focus on each of the substantive issues they address, I would like to draw your attention to a few points which seem to me to be of great importance. I am thinking first of all of what constitutes the framework and the main objective of these texts: the political and institutional strengthening of Polynesia, which, after a long period of instability, now aspires to institutional stability. Indeed, if we apply the law in force at the time we speak, the resignation of three representatives to the assembly of French Polynesia requires the full renewal of the institution. A minority of representatives therefore has the right to dissolve the assembly. By raising this threshold of renewal to one third of the vacant seats, which applies to all municipal councils in France, Article 12 contributes strongly to this objective of institutional stabilisation. Another, and not least, issue is the recognition of the nuclear fact, which is another major project of the organic bill. It responds to a very strong expectation from the population, as you said, as well as from the elected representatives of these territories. After the Morin law of 2010, which was a first step, the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas, passed in 2017, facilitated compensation for victims. The provision that we will adopt today makes it possible for the French State to recognise the role played by Polynesia in the development of its nuclear deterrence policy: it therefore complements this approach. Finally, as Special Rapporteur of the "Transport Infrastructure and Services" programme of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", I can only welcome your announcement regarding the transfer by the State of the ownership and management of the three airports of Bora-Bora, Rangiroa and Raiatea by 2020. This transfer will therefore bring the number of aerodromes owned by French Polynesia to fifty – no longer forty-seven. This transfer was, moreover, strongly demanded by the President of French Polynesia, Édouard Fritch. In order to continue on airport matters, the draft ordinary law provides for the securing of the country's participation in the management of the airport of Tahiti-Faa'a as part of the renewal of the current concession. These measures in favour of greater autonomy in airport management are part of a new dynamic between the State and French Polynesia, which we can only welcome. It is for all of these reasons, and for many others, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that I would like to reaffirm my support for these two bills and my enthusiasm for their coming to pass. Polynesia, like other territories for which the girondin pact is welcome, deserves to be given the legal, institutional and financial means to see the future with serenity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, mauruuru.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u20	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u21	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the draft organic law amending the status of autonomy of French Polynesia (Nos. 1695 and 1821).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u22	Mrs Danièle Obono, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u23	"We had to stay under the shelter until it stopped raining": this is the story given by Daniel, a farmer of Mangareva, one of the islands of the Gambian archipelago located 1500 kilometres south-east of Tahiti. It describes the exercises carried out under the command of the French army by the 500 inhabitants of this island on August 24, 1968, when the explosion of Canopus, a thermonuclear bomb one hundred and fifty times more powerful than those which destroyed Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945, was carried out some 400 kilometres away. These radioactive and therefore harmful rains, the Polynesians and Polynesians had to endure them for thirty years, as well as all the disasters that accompanied them: this is why Article 1 is so important. That is why it seems to us that – although this article has already been said, it is the result of a long work by the elected representatives of Polynesia as well as at the national level, as well as of compromises that have been found – the historical truth must not suffer from compromises that would erase part of the reality. Indeed, as Article 1e states, in speaking of Polynesia's contribution to the nuclear fact, part of the historical reality and that of the harm suffered by the people and that territory is, as a result of this formulation, erased. This article is important, it has been said, and because it is important, it seems to us that clarity is necessary. That is why we have tabled an amendment which our colleague will present to you earlier. It is an amendment that is more than an appeal amendment and not a symbolic amendment: it seems to us that the importance of this article deserves real clarity and recognition that takes into account the reality of harm and, consequently, the importance of reparations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u24	I have before me two amendments, Nos 20 and 4, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Moetai Brotherson to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u25	He goes back to this notion of contribution that is not eligible for Polynesians. Where you see such a contribution, we really see a sacrifice, especially since we cannot plead ignorance on the part of the State. It is well known that the French State, through the Ministry of Defence, had in 1962 prepared a comprehensive report drawn up by its American counterparts describing by the menu, on the basis of the tests they had carried out in Nevada, the consequences of atmospheric nuclear tests. So it was not a contribution, it was a sacrifice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u26	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u27	Polynesia has not only participated in the construction of French nuclear deterrence: it has undergone nuclear tests without ever giving its consent. For thirty years, the French government carried out 193 nuclear tests. To that end, you have upset the organization of Polynesian societies and their ways of life. France has poisoned Polynesia on a long-term basis. For my part, I confess that I join Oscar Temaru when he speaks of "nuclear colonialism" and in his willingness to prosecute France for crimes against humanity. Today, Polynesians and all Polynesian biodiversity still pay a very high price for nuclear tests that they have not agreed to. The current wording of this article is therefore ridiculous: France must officially and entirely recognize the damage caused to Polynesia and the Polynesians. That is why our amendment refers to the recognition of "economic, environmental, health and social harm". [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must make this honest effort not only for the Polynesian population, but also for history, which will judge us severely. By rewriting paragraph 6, our amendment would thus match words and facts about nuclear testing in French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u28	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u29	Unfavorable opinion. As has been said, this text is the result of numerous consultations which have led to a balanced drafting, which seems to me to have to be retained. I would also like to say to my colleague Brotherson, with all due respect, that it is wrong to say that minority groups were not listened to during this consultation: I myself conducted their hearing. It is true that these two groups, taken as a whole, received a majority of the votes. However, in any community, the majority resulting from the elections may be only relative. On the subject we are not in agreement, it is a fact; However, not sharing the opinion of others does not prevent listening carefully. In this respect, the views of the two minority groups are not at all consistent: they do not have the same perception of things, which is quite natural.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u30	The Minister for Overseas Affairs has the floor to give the Government's opinion on the two amendments under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u31	Everyone here defends their positions, I understand that. But the text, negotiated for more than two years, reflects the agreement of the Elysée. There was a great deal of consultation, even before I came to the ministry. Since I took the lead, I have also been careful to hear everyone, including the associations on the ground. During my last visit a month ago, the question of "contribution" was indeed raised: it was at that time, moreover, that the debate began on this term, on which I therefore wished to make all the clarity when presenting the text. In fact, it was the term that had been retained, without surpriseing anyone, right before I took office. No one, in the framework of the concertation, wanted to suggest that Polynesia voluntarily participated in the nuclear tests: it was of course that these were, at the time, a choice of France. I thank all those who have worked on this text, but also wish to remind you, Mr.Brotherson, that I had invited you to the ministry to speak with you. I have understood very well your refusal because, as an independentist, you do not want to address the whole text that we are debating. I repeat, I have a great deal of respect for each other's positions. In these circumstances, I shall express an unfavorable opinion on the two amendments under discussion. The two years of work I have spoken of have led to debates, first in the Senate, then in the Assembly, then in committee, and now in session. Everyone must be able to speak because, you are right, Mr.Ratenon, future generations will read our debates today and will study history. It is therefore important for everyone to be able to defend their arguments on the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u32	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u33	I want to return, Madam Minister, to the reading that the next generations will make of our debates. In 2014, we organized a screening of the film Aux enfants de la bombe in a neighbourhood of Faaa; This was followed by a debate in which a twenty-year-old rose to say that he did not know that there had been nuclear tests in our country. Such ignorance of its own history, the result of a form of self-censorship in our education system, calls us to vigilance over the words we use. In twenty or thirty years, our children, who will read the text before us, will not have you at their side, minister, to understand that the word "contribution" does not suggest any voluntary participation. So there will be contempt for the meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u34	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u35	This amendment is in line with the previous two amendments, on which my colleague Nicole Sanquer and I, like the other members of our group, abstained. We agree, in fact, with the objective they pursue, namely to clarify that the contribution was not voluntary: I spoke extensively about it in the general discussion. Although I have been involved in the consultation for two years, I am sensitive to how this term is perceived. As Moetai Brotherson observed, it will indeed be necessary to know, in twenty years' time, to put it properly in its context and explain it. After hearing the Minister of Overseas Affairs, we have therefore sought solutions to preserve the balance of the article, respecting the work done in recent years, while adding two small words, which I believe would be of fundamental importance. They would completely change the perception that one can have of the term "contribution." That is why I wanted to submit this amendment for our consideration, Madam Minister. A concern for efficiency and speed leads you to seek a correct vote, I am aware of that, especially since the work done has led to the drafting proposed here. In its entirety, moreover, the article is justly aimed. But I am also sensitive to everything that has been said. What happened in our territories, these 193 trials, and what happened in the early 2000s, all this is serious. We know this from the beginning: there have been oppositions to the trials, and the facts have been hidden from us. It must therefore be understood that part of the population wishes to change the term used here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u36	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u37	I conclude quickly, Madam President. The objective of my amendment, therefore, is to recognize, rather than the "contribution", the "contribution" of Polynesia. This would make it clear that the contribution was never voluntary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u38	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u39	We know very well, Mrs Sage, what led to the choice of the term we are talking about. Our colleagues at La France insoumée have, moreover, tabled an amendment a little different from the one they had defended in committee: proof, if necessary, that semantics are very complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u40	Yes, that's right! We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u41	A form of equilibrium was therefore found, the result of a very intense discussion. To bounce back on the previous exchanges between Mr Brotherson and the minister, I would even say that the generations that, in fifteen or twenty years' time, will be in our place, will necessarily have a different look, because their understanding of history will necessarily have changed. Let us have the humility to say this: the recognition of the nuclear fact is already, as such, a monumental act. Let us also have the humility to let history happen, to rewrite itself by future generations, depending on how they understand it. I therefore very much hope that we will stick to the chosen term, which, I repeat, is the result of a concerted effort: there is, understand me well, no kind of trap set against a population that should be convinced that it was willing or complicit in the facts in question. It is about recognizing these facts and starting to write the story. The term is certainly full of imperfections – what word would not have? – but, for the reasons I have just outlined, I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, which I wish to withdraw.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u42	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u43	You know how much I like being frank with my interlocutors, Mrs. Sage. It was on the occasion of my last visit to Polynesia, during my meeting with the leaders of the association 193 – whose name refers to the number of nuclear tests carried out by France in French Polynesia – that a concern arose, at home, about the word "contribution". I felt a question, a doubt about that word, which was feared that it would imply a voluntary participation of Polynesia in the trials. I have tried to reassure and convince of the validity of this text, particularly through the light that can be given. That is what we are working on today. The Polynesian and Polynesian youth, you said, Mr. Brotherson, need a better understanding of their history. It is precisely the purpose of the memory institute, which will have a strong responsibility to explain how things have happened: that is how we will be able to enlighten future generations. Yes, semantics are complex; Yes, the two-year work has led to the drafting that we propose here; Yes, a question about this has appeared, only a few weeks ago. That's why I tried, in the presentation of the text – the most solemn part of our debates, the one that we often retain the most – to carefully clarify its scope. I repeat, therefore, that "contribution" does not mean "voluntary participation". Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u44	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u45	[[Smile]] I repeat, after saying so in the general discussion, the Republican Group will vote for the text: I do not disapprove of the Government's efforts, and here there is no point of discord between us. However, I join Mrs Sage – very wise in this case – in saying that we have not managed to find exactly the right terms: there is still a little something missing. The recognition of the facts we are talking about has existed in the presidential mouth since at least 2003, with the words of Jacques Chirac, who stressed that France had been able to become a great power thanks, in particular, to the nuclear tests in Mururoa and, more broadly, in Polynesia. There is, therefore, a demand on the part of the Polynesians which is well perceived, and which would justify the search for a slightly better formulation. That said, and to conclude, if the explanations you have just given make it clearer as to the objective pursued, then perhaps we will have found a balance. In any case, I welcome the efforts of the Government and national representation as a whole to move forward on this issue with dignity and loyalty to Polynesia and the Polynesians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u46	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u47	I would like to thank Maina Sage for his amendment, and regret the opinion expressed by the rapporteur and the Government on it. The two small words they contain would indeed have enlightened the article in a positive way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u48	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u49	We support this amendment, which I think is able to translate the remarks we have heard. Perhaps these were expressed late, Madam Minister, but Mr.Brotherson explained the self-censorship here at work, and the need for the long and difficult work of transmitting memory and history. Perhaps it is because we are, at this very moment, at the threshold of a historic compromise that the desire to see the reality of the harm suffered is expressed. The amendment would provide a response to those raised by this legitimate concern. We shall therefore vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u50	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u51	In my speech in the general discussion, I was moved by the somewhat condescending term of contribution and stressed that they were never asked for their opinion from the Polynesians. Assuming that they were asked to do so, I doubt that they were informed at the time of the dangers of radioactivity. Nuclear energy was indeed the subject of a form of omerta, which lasted for a while, moreover: I would remind you that the Chernobyl cloud never crossed the Rhine and that the Geiger meters operated on the German side, but not on the French side, as by chance... This was the reason for the establishment of the Independent Radioactivity Research and Information Commission, CRIIRAD: it was a tool for assessing influence and EDF and the Government. The word of contribution does not seem to allow me to truly recognize what has happened. In addition, it is also the term used to refer to taxation, which is paid in democracy, because one is a citizen, whereas there is no question of being subjected to radioactivity because of his citizenship. He is therefore particularly ill-chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u52	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u53	A simple question: has the wording proposed in the amendment been approved by the elected representatives of the territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u54	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u55	Of course, the text before us, which is the result of a very long work, represents a step forward. On the other hand, I find it regrettable that the word 'contribution' is ambiguous. One can see a positive dimension: in this sense, it marks the recognition that the Polynesian people have contributed to the enterprise in their flesh and blood; At the same time, he evokes the idea of voluntary contributions, which is quite different. Now in an act of recognition, an essential act, half of the way is accomplished when resilience, the fact of being able to move on, is allowed. From this point of view, the work is incomplete: we do not go to the end of what we could have done and that the intention was to do those who are present here. Ambiguity remains. It is a shame not to have tried to solve it after so much work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u56	So close!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u57	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u58	Thank you to all those who spoke on the subject. Mrs Pau Langevin, as regards the consultation of Polynesia, I invite you to review the opinions of both the Polynesian Government and the Polynesian Assembly and its Economic, Social and Cultural Council, as well as the outcome of the union's consultation on the promotion of the municipalities. Article 1 had been enriched: the concept of harm had been clarified, as well as the issues of compensation by the social security fund. By comparison, you can see that the only official opinion of the members of the Assembly of Polynesia has greatly expanded the article. Some of these proposals have been taken up in the Senate to clarify certain paragraphs. I would like to point out another very clear point: as our minister said – I agree with you on this, Mrs Girardin – a month or two ago, no one had yet said that they were sensitive to the use of the term contribution. I associate this sensitivity with the fact that in February it was possible to read the final version of the Senate, that is, the consolidated text following the various opinions, in conjunction with the presentation of the report to the Advisory Commission for Follow-up on the Consequences of Nuclear Tests. At that time, special attention was paid to the topic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u59	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u60	This has brought us elements. Do we have to ignore the debate that is before us? I don't know. Everyone will take responsibility. I have my own sensitivity to this: I believe that if we can, by one word, enlighten the representation and, with it, all those who will read the article, we should add it. Would that be an obstacle to a proper vote? I am sure that we will all agree that by changing a word we will not necessarily question the correct vote; But at least we will have been precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u61	I invite everyone to respect their speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u62	Madam President, on the follow-up, we will go quickly, I promise. But this issue is too important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u63	I know that the subject is important; Many speeches were made, I let everyone speak, but let everyone respect the time allotted to him. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u64	I'm asking for a suspension of the sitting, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u65	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u66	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u67	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u68	I remember in committee the minister said that the term "contribution" was important because it would win the consensus. That is also what parliamentary work is for: to know where consensus is located. I have also retained the words of our colleague Brother: if only one word makes it possible to move towards consensus, it is a pity not to add it. [[Applause on all benches]] In the light of our debates, I therefore amend my unfavourable opinion on Amendment No 19, which I invite you to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u69	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u70	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and UAI-Agir groups. – Mr. Moetai Brother also applauds]] In the light of our exchanges and the position taken by each group, I issue a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u71	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, UDI-Agir, FI and LT groups]] On behalf of all my colleagues and the Polynesians, I sincerely thank you. I know that our debates will shed light on the meaning of Article 1 for history.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u73	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I commend the wisdom of the Government and the position of the rapporteur. This is the kind of debate that we appreciate and that we are able to conduct together in this House in the general interest. Thank you, therefore; such moments are not so common: we must greet them and appreciate them at their fair value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u75	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u76	I wanted to tell you mauruuru too! I will vote against the whole text, but for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u77	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u78	Since the wording is suitable for everyone, I agree with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u79	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and UDI-Agir groups]] In my turn, I sincerely thank Mr Maina Sage for his initiative, the rapporteur for his favourable opinion and the minister for her wisdom. It was important. We look forward to voting together on this amendment, which will have a real symbolic echo, now and for history.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u81	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u82	[[Ms. Maina Sage applauds]] I thank the Minister, our rapporteur and the Chair of the Law Committee, as well as the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u83	After this concert of praise, I shall put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u84	A definitely very "wise" amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u85	[[Applause on all benches]] Unanimous! I call Mr Moetai Brotherson to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u86	It is important not to forget the indirect victims: the families and the entourage of the direct victims, of those who have been harmed in their flesh. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u88	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. While it is fair to say that France has acted late in this regard, on the other hand, since the programming law on real equality overseas, known as EROM, the situation has changed completely. Criticism is much less appropriate when 90% of claims are now considered: the scheme is now effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u90	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u91	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u92	It is a very good thing that the EROM law has amended the Morin law, but these laws have only led to compensation for the victim herself. We evaluate the degree of pain she experiences from the Dintilhac nomenclature, a rather abstract process: we will count the scars, the lost teeth... And so it is according to the level of pain of the victim alone that the victim will be compensated at once. Therefore, indirect victims are thrown into oblivion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u93	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u94	In 2010, the Government finally agreed to compensate the victims of the French nuclear tests in Polynesia. However, the work of the Committee on Compensation for Nuclear Test Victims – CIVEN – is currently blocked by the government. It is the usual culture of silence of the Ministry of Armed Forces that prevents the ICVEN from working, with a very large number of documents still under embargo. It can't last any longer. If the secrecy imposed by the Ministry of Armed Forces prevents the compensation of a single victim, you will understand that it is already too much. We are talking here about lives forever changed by the effect of colonial politics. We're talking about people suffering from cancer. There is no justification for these persons not to be compensated and supported by the French State. Therefore, this amendment provides for the transmission by the Government of any document that would enable the ICVEN to carry out a comprehensive investigation in connection with the investigation of compensation cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u96	Unfavourable notice for reasons similar to those cited above. The State can be sued for its intention and accused of wanting to hide these documents at all costs, but the reality must be taken into account. Since the entry into force of the EROM Act, the presence on the spot during the tests is a sufficient criterion to present a dossier. However, the admission rate for cases is around 92%; Your concern therefore seems to be irrelevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u98	I confirm that the CIVEM has all the elements necessary to investigate a claim for compensation. In addition, the applicant may speak directly before him to defend his file or to provide additional information. Finally, the committee can carry out expert assessments. The machine took some time to start but it is now on its way and the rate of managed folders is good, as well as the number of indemnified. In any event, it is not necessary at this stage to provide for a derogation from the secrecy of national defence. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u99	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u100	I would like to reassure Mr Ratenon that I have been a member of the committee provided for in Article 113 of the EROM Act and I confirm that the ICVEN meets twice a month, that we have multiplied the number of victims compensated by ten, that the work continues and that the forms will even be translated into Polynesian language in order to be better understood. Above all, support for victims has been introduced so that they can obtain compensation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the minister for all the progress she has made in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u101	I call Mr Moetai Brotherson to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u102	This amendment is editorial – but the words are important. Indeed, "Mururoa", there is no such thing. The correct name is "Moruroa", which means something very specific in reo pa' umotu.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u104	I am not the one who will challenge our colleague Brotherson's expertise in this area. However, the word "Mururoa" is the word in the codes. It is often the case that geographical terms are adapted. Even if I hear your argument correctly, I would like us to stick to the wording in force, which has become, in a way, traditional.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u106	"Moruroa" is indeed the Polynesian name, MP, but it is now codified. So we're going to stay in "Mururoa" even if I understand your fight that might also concern many other place names.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u107	Indeed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u108	We come to a series of amendments with an additional article after Article 1. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u109	This amendment is the first in a series that we have already defended in committee to deal with environmental emergencies. French Polynesia – like the rest of the world – will have to face the consequences of climate change. The rise of the oceans, their acidification and the multiplication of extreme weather events will have a strong impact on island geographies – even the disappearance of islands is mentioned for Polynesia. We can already observe whitening of corals, which cannot regenerate. We therefore propose, in accordance with the autonomy of French Polynesia, to include the ecological emergency in the organic law of 27 February 2004, in order to provide for enhanced State support, if requested by Polynesia, in the implementation of adaptation policies and in the fight against climate change and its consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u110	Would you like to present each amendment in the series separately, Mrs Panot?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u111	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u113	For my part, I will provide a comprehensive response to this series of amendments by the Group of the European People's Party. See there no arrogance, no contempt; simply, these amendments all have in common to provoke debate on cross-cutting issues far beyond the scope of the statute of French Polynesia. This position is consistent, even if other colleagues, I imagine, will be able to make some nuances. Without showing me a little teasing, I note that the summary statements of your amendments include little or no the same formula, with some variations: "Far from wanting to go back to the competences of French Polynesia and its autonomy etc. On the contrary, with these amendments, you are hearing well about the prerogatives of Polynesian institutions. For this reason, and because we wish to remain within the framework of this debate and to remain as close as possible to the text resulting from the work in committee, I call for their withdrawal and, failing that, their rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u115	I am very involved in climate change issues. I have had the opportunity to participate in the organization of COP21, to negotiate with all small island States, for many in the Pacific Ocean, many of which are at risk of being destroyed or even swallowed. I am one of those, like others here, who have fought for the creation of a specific green fund for the territories of the Pacific – a fund that today goes beyond because it covers all the overseas territories. The latter are indeed on the front line, as I have shown, I take the most recent example, Hurricane Irma in Saint-Martin. But let's go back to Polynesia. I would like to reassure you of the Government's willingness to take this data into account. I fervently defend the seventeen sustainable development goals of COP21, which the "Overseas Trajectory 5.0" sums up as follows: zero waste, zero carbon, zero exclusion, zero vulnerability to climate change and zero pollutant inputs. Why? Because the Overseas Territories are both the least polluting territories and the first to face environmental challenges. They can become the first models of excellence in sustainable development. Honestly, you can count on me to accompany the overseas territories in this direction. Mitigation and adaptation are certainly essential and all your amendments agree with what I have just said, which is normal: who here is not in favour of a common world that respects the 17 sustainable development goals? No one, and in any case not France, which has subscribed to it, like almost every country. It's time to apply them. The Overseas Territories may be the first to do so and you can, I repeat, count on me to do so. For all these reasons, I am against the amendments tabled by Members of the FI Group even if we agree on the substance. It also remains, and the rapporteur has mentioned, that I cannot let you touch on the competence of the Polynesian community. I am defending the powers of the Overseas Territories and, as George Pau-Langevin has pointed out, as others have said, I believe that differentiation is a matter of giving more capacity to the Overseas Territories, a sign of taking account of their specificities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u116	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u117	As I did in committee, I would like to respond to all of these amendments. In my view, they are satisfied: the organic law already allows the State and Polynesia to contract by conventional means on all the subjects related to our own competences. The state can therefore really intervene at the request of Polynesia – and the rest, it does: it is very committed to the support of our territories in climate matters and we thus carry out numerous actions with the French Agency for Biodiversity. Mr Molac cited the 2009 Environmental Convention. Be aware that we are in the process of revising its drafting in partnership with the State. In short, from every point of view – and I cannot forget the creation of the Green Fund by the Finance Act for 2017 or its strengthening in 2018 – we are truly in the momentum mentioned. As far as the legal question raised by your amendments is concerned, I have sent them, after our work in committee, to experts in our statute who confirm that we must not specify the competences as you wish. Indeed, and you know better than I do, Mrs Obono, lawyers can interpret these competences in various ways: if the state must give priority to its action on these subjects, what about the others? So the fear is really that reverse reading leads to some kind of retrocession, if I may say so, of the environmental skills of Polynesia, which I would remind you are full and complete. That is why Members of the IDU, Action and Independent Group will abstain – because, I insist, on the substance, we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u118	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u119	If we use the expression you are raising, rapporteur, it is not only for formal reasons, but because we are truly committed to the autonomy of Polynesia – which is the result of a struggle, social and democratic demands. Our approach is the result of a dialogue with Polynesians who have submitted to us the proposals that are included in our amendments. To talk about Polynesia must also allow, in our view, to address a topic that everyone agrees to recognize as essential: adaptation to climate change, particularly crucial for Polynesian populations, due to the major risks involved, but also their ability to become a model in this area. It is in order to strengthen these adaptive capacities that we believe it would be useful to include in the text the importance of energy autonomy and renewable energies. In November 2015, the Government of French Polynesia reaffirmed its intention to achieve 50 per cent renewable electricity generation in 2020. This was already the objective set by the law of the country n° 2013-27 of 23 December 2013 on the guiding principles of the energy policy of French Polynesia. Today, renewable energies produce about 33% of the total electricity in French Polynesia. By adopting this amendment, we could help the Polynesian Government achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u120	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u121	As regards the interpretation by the jurists, Mrs Sage, they must theoretically refer to the parliamentary proceedings, and in particular to the record of the proceedings. Their interpretation should therefore not, in principle, run counter to the intention of the legislator. Minister, I am pleased to hear you say that these objectives are common to us; But the problem is action! By the time of COP21, island States had secured the inclusion in the agreement of the objective of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees; Beyond that, whole states could disappear. But today we are far from the hope of achieving this goal; I don't even know if we can still seriously consider the objective of limiting warming to 2 degrees. No, the resources allocated by France to the energy transition, to the ecological emergency are not sufficient. However, Polynesia will be severely affected by climate change. Amendment No 8 deals with the need to combat pollution, particularly marine pollution: plastic, for example, has become a scourge as it is estimated that by 2050 there will be more plastic in the seas than fish. No, I insist, the means are not enough. If Polynesia so requests, the State must allocate substantial sums to these policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u122	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u123	More specifically, this amendment concerns the protection of biodiversity. French Polynesia is the overseas community with the largest number of extinct or threatened species. The number of endemic plant and animal species, compared to the small area of the country, is remarkable, and Polynesia is a territory of major interest. However, introductions of animal and plant species, as well as habitat degradation or fragmentation, are still the main causes of biodiversity loss. At the time of the sixth mass extinction, the preservation of Polynesian natural and cultural heritage is therefore a major issue, the importance of which is widely recognized by French and Polynesian society. French Polynesia cannot be understood without recognizing the profound link, both cultural and social, between Polynesian society and its environment and natural resources. That is why we propose, in accordance with the statutory powers of the French Polynesian community, to include in the law strong State support for Polynesia in this matter. This would be a commitment to achieving results, which have become more than urgent today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u124	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u125	This amendment addresses the need to combat illegal fishing and the plundering of fisheries resources by foreign vessels in the Polynesian exclusive economic zone. The EEZ is particularly rich in fish, especially tuna, which attracts many foreign fleets, mostly Asian. These vessels are in the vicinity of the EEZ and may be tempted to cross it illegally to follow the fish banks. It is therefore a matter of making available to the authorities all the deterrent and control tools which may enable them to monitor suspicious vessels and, where appropriate, to intervene.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u126	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u127	This is a very important issue locally. I would like to make it clear in this Chamber that our EEZ is now closed to foreign fishing. Of course, there are boats trying to get in there; They're all around the EEZ, we see them! I thank the State, which is in charge of surveillance. We are naturally opposed to overexploitation of these resources. In the Pacific, 3 million tonnes of fish are fished; We catch only 6000 tonnes, far from the 14000 tonnes that would be allowed by international negotiations. Polynesia has been exemplary: since 1996, the EEZ has been closed to foreign fisheries; there are no large nets, no seine fishing; We're fishing longline. Of course, we must remain vigilant. We will be! I insist, because I receive daily messages from concerned Polynesians: it is out of the question for us to open our EEZ to large tuna seiners. We must, in partnership with the State, continue to protect this large area, which accounts for 47% of France's EEZ.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u128	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u129	In fact, Polynesia has an exemplary policy in this area. You will easily find on the internet the map of illegal fishing in the Pacific: you will see a large hole in the place where Polynesia is located... This is where the fight against illegal fishing is most effective. Fishing is much more limited than elsewhere. This is a subject to which I am particularly sensitive, since I come from a territory that has suffered from international overfishing in French and Canadian waters; It took a moratorium on cod, which was a disaster for Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, which still has not really recovered. I am therefore, like the rest of the Government, taking care of these issues, in particular for the monitoring of the EEZ in Polynesia. We are putting the means, and we will continue to do so, alongside the Polynesian government, which is also very firm on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u130	Amendment No 11 by Mrs Danièle Obono is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u131	I have before me two amendments, Nos 12 and 13, which can be presented together. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u132	These two amendments are similar, since they relate respectively to poverty and to expensive living. At the request of the community, the State must actively contribute to the fight against poverty and against expensive living. This is once again a topic that was proposed to us when we consulted the Polynesian population. Polynesia is particularly affected by poverty, with a worrying unemployment rate, especially for young people, and rising. Inequalities are staggering, and while social policies fall within the scope of local competence, support from the State is possible, at the request of the community. That is what we wish to include in the text. As for expensive life, it is an issue that is not specific to Polynesia: this scourge affects the vast majority of ultramarine territories. According to a study published in 2016 by the Institut de la statistique de la Polynésie française, the general level of consumer prices in Polynesia was 39% higher than that of the metropolis. This difference in the cost of living seems to us to have to be mitigated, and the state must play its full role there – upon request, of course, of the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u133	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u134	This amendment, also from contributions submitted to us, seeks to guarantee a right of access to water. To do this, in Polynesia as elsewhere, a minimum free quantity must be provided for everyone; The World Health Organization estimates the amount of water required for life to be 40 litres per day, or 14.6 cubic metres per year. Without this free of charge of the first cubic metres, we cannot speak of real access to water.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u135	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u136	We come to the question of education and training. These are powers that continue to fall under the jurisdiction of the State – I refer you to Article 14 of the Statute. Recall that the University of French Polynesia consists of three departments, plus a centre issuing university degrees in technology – DUT – and a higher school of faculty and education. But the range of training remains limited: thus, only the first year of medicine can be carried out in Polynesia; For the rest, we have to go to the metropolis. If mobility assistance is offered, students are encouraged to leave the territory and discriminated against, as students face many obstacles: finding housing, filling out applications for assistance... I would add that the National Centre for Academic and School Works, the NOCUS, does not have any branches on site. Moreover, the number of doctors in French Polynesia is alarming: 177 per 300,000 inhabitants, 330 for France as a whole and 225 for New Caledonia. So there is a lack. While respecting the competences of the various institutions, this amendment would support the development of higher education, research and education in general, and thus invest in the future of these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u138	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u140	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u141	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u142	I thank Mrs Obono for her amendment, which, however, once again reflects a somewhat narrow vision of Polynesia. Restricted to a Papeete-Paris axis, it is blocking our regional basin. I would prefer that we finally recognize the equivalence of diplomas with New Zealand, Australia, Fiji and our other Pacific neighbours, which would allow us to train our children at a lower cost in many fields. In Fiji, there are quite honourable medical trainings – Fijians do not die from poor treatment. Similarly, New Zealand offers very good quality aquaculture training. For the moment, paradoxically, a Polynesian who wants to train in aquaculture is obliged to do so in Montpellier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u143	I call Mr Moetai Brotherson to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u144	Without taking up the points I made in the general discussion, I would like to stress the ambiguity of the status with regard to the list of strategic raw materials. First of all, if I ask the people in this House about the composition of this list, I am not sure I will receive consistent answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u145	She's got 58 of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u146	Secondly, this list seems to me to be a contradiction since, while the economy falls within the competence of Polynesia, the list of strategic raw materials is now essentially based on economic criteria – which may not have been the case in the 1950s – drawn up by the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research – BRGM – or by the Committee for Strategic Metals – COMES. This list, which is part of the economic field, therefore restricts the competence of Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u148	Unfavorable opinion. I propose that you, Mr Brotherson, withdraw your amendment. The very nature of strategic matters, wherever they are present in the territory, is to be of national interest. At present, Polynesia is primarily concerned with hydrocarbons and uranium, but this may indeed evolve. We will retain the idea that these raw materials are of national interest, therefore strategic. In addition, given the complexity of the issues, it may be useful to pool national expertise and expertise to manage these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u150	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u151	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u152	If this logic were to be followed to the end, article 47 of the statute of Polynesia should be deleted. There is no point in saying that Polynesia has jurisdiction over its natural mineral resources and, at the same time, to set strategic raw materials as an exception. Today, Polynesia holds, in addition to hydrocarbons, large reserves of cobalt in the ocean. Cobalt is not a rare land, but it is already on the list of strategic materials. And among rare earths, two thirds are already considered strategic raw materials. That is why I am talking about deleting article 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u153	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u154	Polynesia is competent for the exploration and exploitation of resources, which are governed by its own mining code. A few years ago, a local debate took place on the issue of rare earths and the country's ability to exploit them in the future. Within the local assembly, the elected representatives engaged in various campaigns. In 2013-2014, the Government wished to affirm that the concept of rare earth was indeed the competence of Polynesia, with the exception of strategic matters, as affirmed by the statute. Ms. George Pau-Langevin, who was minister at that time, had confirmed to Polynesia that rare earths were indeed one of the materials that she could use in the future, with the exception of those on the list of strategic materials. I therefore agree in part with my colleague that the definition of this list depends on the state. However, we remain autonomous: a right of exploration and exploitation is granted to us, except for the raw materials that national law calls strategic, because they are essentially related to security and defence. This list is scalable. A few years ago, she understood lead; Some researchers believe that other subjects could be included in the future. It is up to us to ensure that this is done and to ensure that, as we move forward, we can complete our legal arsenal. I do not think, however, that we should go so far as to delete Article 47. Mr Brotherson, I prefer your amendment on Moruroa. I couldn't speak, but I want to tell you that I support him. Maybe over time, that term can be imposed. To go back to the subject, the important thing for us is to make it clear that if, tomorrow, Polynesia wishes to exploit exploitable rare earths, it will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u155	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u156	I want to stress that Polynesia is indeed competent on rare earths, but that two thirds of the existing rare earths are on the list of strategic raw materials. It would therefore be more honest to talk about competence over the remaining third of the rare earths. Finally, to conclude on a note of humor, although a little bit crazily, if the President of the Republic woke up tomorrow with a sudden desire to declare vanilla or coconut as strategic raw materials, nothing in the Constitution would prevent him from doing so. We'd be very upset!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u157	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u158	It is intended to delete sub-paragraphs 2 to 4. We oppose in principle the extension of the use of independent administrative authorities, which so far are limited to the economic sector. This method of administration, imported from Anglo-Saxon law, delegates important powers to unelected authorities, without guarantee of responsibility and with often weak transparency. We believe that these authorities should not be resorted to beyond the economic sector, as they represent a dismantling of public power and nests of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u159	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u160	Unfavorable opinion. We do not share this view, believing that this enlargement is a step forward for the community. This corresponds, moreover, to a local demand for public health, electronic communications and postal services. New Caledonia has already benefited from this increased recourse, which I believe is part of the logic of autonomy. That is why we do not wish to change the wording of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u161	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u162	This amendment is totally contrary to the requests made by the Polynesian authorities. We have discussed this subject extensively in the Senate. We wish to give Polynesia the opportunity to create independent administrative authorities, in all areas within its competence, and not solely for the purpose of exercising regulatory tasks in the economic sector. As the rapporteur said, we have already done in New Caledonia. I spoke earlier about a new relationship between the state and French Polynesia, which is based on trust. We maintain it by accompanying the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u163	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u164	I would like, by way of testimony, to illustrate my opposition to this amendment. From 2004 to 2008, long before I was a Member of Parliament, I headed the Post and Telecommunications Office, the Polynesian equivalent of the Electronic Communications and Posts Regulatory Authority – ARCEP. In this period of instability, I have had many ministers, each with a different vision. The pressure of the policy was very strong to try to influence the drafting of the postal and telecommunications code. In a small territory like ours, the temptation to put pressure on everything is great. I would therefore have preferred amendments to strengthen the independence of the independent administrative authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u165	I have before me two amendments, Nos 17 and 18, which can be presented together. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u166	Amendment No 17 deals with an issue that we had already discussed a few months ago concerning the secrecy of the proceedings of the Polynesian Competition Authority – APC. We propose that these deliberations be public, so that all are aware of the reasons behind the PCA's decisions, which have a direct impact on the daily lives of our Polynesian fellow citizens. This transparency will make it possible to combat price increases more effectively, as the public can judge whether decisions have favoured businesses more than the general interest. Since the operation of the PCA, particularly the secrecy of the deliberations, has been the subject of several debates, it seems to us that this provision would promote transparency and ease the debate. Amendment No 17 is part of the current division of powers between the State and the community. Under article 14, paragraph 2, of the Statute, concerning the guarantee of public freedoms, it would allow the public authority to intervene. As for the withdrawal amendment No 18, it is intended to encourage the expression of dissenting opinions by members of the public authority in order to fuel the debate. In this way, the public will take greater ownership of these exchanges and the exercise will only be more democratic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u168	The opinion will be unfavourable. I suggest that the two amendments be withdrawn; Otherwise, I will ask the House to reject them. I hear, Mrs Obono, your opposition in principle to the independent authorities, which is consistent with other positions that you have been able to express. On the substance, however, the secret of deliberate decision-making is, in our country, a tradition to which we remain fundamentally committed. It is one of the components of the constitutional principle of the independence of judges, since decision 2015-506 QPC of 4 December 2015 of the Constitutional Council, which aims to ensure the independence of those brought to make a decision, and the authority of this decision. Moreover, such advertising is not intended for other competition authorities. It would therefore be inconsistent to provide for it for the CPA. This does not prevent the application of a number of requirements relating to compliance with the adversarial principle and remedies before a judge, who decides publicly. But above all, and your previous series of appeal amendments bear witness to this, you seem to have a problem with the status of Polynesia and its autonomy. The operation of the Polynesian Competition Authority is not a matter of organic law but of country law. It is important to respect Polynesian institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u170	I have nothing to add to the rapporteur's arguments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u171	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u172	We have taken care to indicate that this provision applies strictly in accordance with the division of powers. Our proposal is consistent with those we made during the debate on the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill. Our French tradition must evolve, especially as the current public debates highlight the will of citizens to be more involved in decisions. Publicity of the debates would make it possible to rehabilitate all institutions in the eyes of the public. These are amendments calling for a review of a tradition that we do not deny the merits of in the direction of greater transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u173	Amendment No 2, which deletes the article, by Mrs Danièle Obono is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u174	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3 and 27. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u175	This amendment deals with the exploitation of rare earths, which is particularly destructive for ecosystems and workers' health. In a context of Chinese monopoly and increasing global demand, mining projects are increasing worldwide. Often, it is voractic foreign consortia that make the most of the resources of rare earth-rich countries. The disastrous effects of this industry are proven in New Caledonia and Madagascar. At the time of the ecological emergency, another model, based on the non-exploitation of resources and human beings, must be possible for French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u176	I call Mr Moetai Brotherson to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u177	If I care as much about the place reserved for rare earths and strategic materials in the statute, it is less for fear of resource grabbing than for desire to protect these resources. Exploitation off Papua New Guinea is an ecological disaster. Today, cobalt is a strategic raw material. If tomorrow the state decided to come to ruin the bottoms of our oceans in order to extract them, we would have no way, under the statute, of opposing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u179	The purpose of the Organic Law is to organize the functioning of the public authorities in French Polynesia, in particular to distribute the powers between the State and the community. This is the meaning of Article 9 which assigns mining competence to Polynesia. There is no incentive in this article to pursue a productive public policy or to protect the environment. Polynesia is absolutely exemplary in the management of marine protected areas – this has been recalled by our Polynesian colleague in a very convincing way. As for the rare earths and cobalt that lie in the seabed, exploitation is not even possible due to the lack of scientific knowledge. Let us not say in Article 9 more than what it really contains, namely a clarification of the competence to manage marine resources, which had remained unclear since 2004. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u181	The deletion of this article is not possible, as it makes it possible to conclude the debate on the competences of French Polynesia at sea. The rapporteur has just pointed out how responsible it is in this area. It is the role of the State to accompany Polynesia while trusting it to exercise its competence. Let's not play to scare us! My job is to accompany the choices made by Polynesia, while always preserving the general interest and sustainable development which, as you know, is my compass. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u182	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u183	My colleagues' questions on strategic matters are legitimate, but I do not see how the amendments respond to them. Article 9 confirms Polynesia's competence on rare earths, with the exception of strategic matters, I grant it to you. Therefore, let us tackle the list of strategic subjects in order to enable Polynesia to fully exercise its competence. It is now supported by this article; I therefore do not want it to be deleted. I'm not aware of a rare earth mining project underway in Polynesia. The IRD – Institute for Development Research – has produced a state of knowledge that is, in fact, very unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u184	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u185	I would like to be explained how the addition of the words "in particular the elements of the rare earth" clarifies anything. Rare earths are minerals. However, the current wording makes it clear that Polynesia is competent for minerals, with the exception of strategic materials. It is therefore absolutely unnecessary to insert the reference to rare earths.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u186	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u187	I welcome what my colleague has said because the party to which he belongs has often called into question this competence. That is precisely why the bill makes it clear. For the past five years, we have been reassuring you that Polynesia is competent in rare earth matters. It is now written to prevent any contestation. The use of the term "in particular" clearly shows that this is a precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u188	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u189	This is an endless debate between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u190	It's a local debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u191	What is the point of mentioning rare earths if the exception of strategic raw materials remains? That doesn't change anything at the limit of Polynesia's supposed skills.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u192	So stop blaming us and work on a list of strategic materials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u193	We have completed our review of the articles of the Organic Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u194	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Paul Molac.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u195	Speaking on behalf of the Liberties and Territories Group, I believe that this organic bill will be voted almost unanimously. It is a technical text that does not pose a problem. Moetai Brotherson would like him to go further, but this is a step in the right direction. In the words of François Mitterrand, I am firmly convinced that France needed centralization to be done and that it would need decentralization in order not to get rid of it. We should go further in autonomy in Polynesia but also in metropolitan areas, in other regions that require it. I am thinking of Corsica, Brittany and the Basque Country. We will not be able to evade this request in the future, because it is in the direction of world history. Today, France is too big for the local and too small for the international, which brings us back to the European project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u196	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u197	I would like to remind the rapporteur that since 2013, Polynesia has been re-incorporated into the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories. I heard one of my colleagues refuse to recognize her. But for what? This re-registration took place under the same conditions as that of New Caledonia in 2006, with the same legitimacy and legality. Why, in one case, would re-registration be recognized and, in the other, would it not be? Let me know!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u198	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u199	I would like to stress the peaceful spirit that lived in the debates this afternoon. I hope this peaceful wind blows to the metropolis. As Mr Molac has said, we can see that the solution to all the crises we are going through right now will pass through our territories. Here we have the very illustration of the implementation of the girondin pact advocated by the President of the Republic. This text combines responsibility and differentiation in the service of economic success. As I know, French Polynesia has many advantages in this area, including pearl farming and tourism. My dear Polynesian colleagues, I hope that, despite the transfer of the land to Bora-Bora, the metropolitans will always be able to land on this little corner of France! Nevertheless, France is one and indivisible, it is enshrined in the Constitution, and it is a force when it comes to ecology, education or social issues. This exemplary text must indeed inspire us for other metropolitan territories: Basque Country, Corsica, Médoc, New Aquitaine. I think this is a solution to the crisis in the city today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u200	I put the whole organic bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u201	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on various institutional provisions in French Polynesia (No. 1696, 1820).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u202	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u203	Amendment No 2 by Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u204	The Minister for Overseas Affairs has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u205	In French Polynesia, the armed forces employ, in particular, local civilian recruitment personnel, who are governed by a private law statute drawn up on the basis of article 27 of Organic Law No. 2004-192 of 27 February 2004 on the autonomy status of French Polynesia and Law No. 86-845 of 17 July 1986 on the general principles of labour law and on the organization and functioning of the labour inspectorate and labour courts in French Polynesia. This derogatory status is the result of the commitments made by the Government at the time of the nuclear tests. Article 7 provides that officials who are not in possession of the State carrying out a public administrative service in French Polynesia shall be placed under a system of public law. The amendment is intended to clarify that these provisions will not apply to staff working in the establishments of the Ministry of Armed Forces. I would point out that negotiations are under way between the department and these officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u206	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u207	The committee was unable to consider the amendment. I therefore use my considerable influence as rapporteur to deliver a favourable opinion. The amendment is welcome: without calling into question the clarification of the status of the non-public servants of the administration employed in French Polynesia under Article 7, it preserves the statutory specificities of the personnel employed by the army on the spot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u208	I call Mr Moetai Brotherson to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u209	In substance, article 15 is a good intention, but the town of Faa'a, where the airport is located, has been forgotten. Its inhabitants suffer the inconveniences without any compensation. In my view, it would be fair for the proposed scheme to include the municipality of Faa'a.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u211	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion, because of a fairly general principle of decentralization: the scope of those interested in such a decision and, consequently, of those who may wish to participate in the process is potentially infinite. This is true in metropolis as in the overseas territories. In this case, it is general equipment which will benefit the whole territory. It is even precious and fundamental to it. On the other hand, community law is particularly important in Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u212	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u213	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u214	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u215	This equipment will indeed benefit the whole of Polynesia, Mr. Rapporteur, but only the inhabitants of Faa'a suffer the inconvenience.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u216	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u217	I would like to add, Mr Brotherson, that there are environmental committees, where municipalities are represented and where citizens can speak. The people concerned will therefore be able to refer to the nuisances if they so wish. There are two types of airports in Polynesia, and the choices are different depending on the importance of these airports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u218	I have before me an amendment, No 4, introducing an additional article after Rule 16. The minister has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u219	It's about paying parking. We had extended the rule of law to Polynesia, but it is complicated to apply it. We have therefore decided to reconsider that decision, as we have done for New Caledonia. This is once again a matter of differentiation and specificities in the overseas territories, communities or countries. When a tool has been misconceived or a device is not easy to implement in some territories, the State must recognize it. When a decision is wrong, you have to agree to go back on it. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u222	He is obviously in favour. The principle of differentiation can be seen from a wide range of illustrations. This is a matter of parking fines, as the bill comes to an end. The devil is in the details, and we correct a detail where he had stayed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u224	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u225	We are, of course, in favour of the amendment. In response to what you said earlier, Madam Minister, I would point out that our honourable senator, Mrs Tetuanui, had asked for a report from the Government on the intelligibility of national law in Polynesia, but that the corresponding article had been deleted in committee. I have noted that you have wished for a mission to be set up in this regard. In addition, I would like to remind you of the idea of organising an annual meeting in both chambers, during which we could adapt and codify the law for the overseas territories, to address the issues of approval, which often come back, in short, to solve the small problems of adapting national rules. We need such an annual meeting, where each Overseas Territory could raise the issue of the necessary adaptations and modernizations for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u226	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u227	In explanation of vote, Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u228	On behalf of the IDU Group, I thank you all, ladies and gentlemen, for having been present for the examination of two texts specific to French Polynesia. I thank the Minister for Overseas Affairs and her teams. I really want to thank the rapporteur, Guillaume Vuilletet, who has invested a lot in these texts – I did not have the opportunity to do so during the general discussion, as the issue of nuclear energy has given rise to lengthy debates. I would also like to thank you very much for listening to clause 1 of the organic bill. We have, I believe, found the necessary ways of reconciliation. That was the goal of today. Autonomy is built every day. It's a living matter. It is up to us to consolidate it. This is evidence of confidence in the relationship between the state and Polynesia. On the issue of nuclear power, as I said earlier, there will be no appeasement without justice. The recognition of the nuclear fact is a significant element in our status. It must give rise to clear acts of reparation, as I said. There is a health component, an environmental component and an economic component. This point does not make the whole relationship, but it is fundamental to settle it so that we can move forward together on a more peaceful path.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u229	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u230	What has been happening today, what has been happening for years, especially in the last few months, is the construction of a path, with master words: respect, dialogue, understanding. It means looking at the story in the face, as it was. As evidence of this, the amendment to clause 1 of the organic bill was used to refer to the term "contribution" rather than "contribution", which shows that we are not afraid to make sense of things. Of course, this path continues – it is dynamic, not static – with the demand for justice. This is inherent in the question of territories and differentiation, because we know how the Republic was built. Everywhere, I say well everywhere, it has also been done with conflicts, clashes, blood and tears. I hope, together with the Libertés et Territoires Group, that what is happening today on Polynesia – but also what will happen tomorrow, because the process is not over, vigilance will continue to be exercised on the status of autonomy – will be extended in other areas of relation to territories, identities and cultures. The small step we are taking today is a very important step on the road to understanding that we must find together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u231	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u232	I thank all the colleagues who have spoken about the two texts since this morning. I voted against the organic bill. On behalf of my Group from the Democratic and Republican Left, I will abstain from the ordinary bill, as my amendment on the representation of Faa'a in the society provided for in Article 15 has not been accepted. I come back to the provisions of the ordinary land bill. I have no particular comment on the text itself, which has been significantly improved since its first version – it was consistent with the bill to facilitate the exit of the estate indivision, defended by Serge Letchimy. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to a difference in perception. It's about getting out of the indivision. However, in Polynesia – but I do not think it is the only territory concerned – the exit from the division immediately leads to sales, which fuel speculation. That is why the Polynesian party to which I belong, the Tavini Huiraatira, would be more interested in mechanisms of management of the indivision rather than of exit from the indivision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u233	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u234	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u235	We cannot leave without thanking everyone, even though I have already done so by presenting the text. Thank you to the members of the Law Commission, its rapporteur and all of you. Today, some have said, we have traded and walked together. We have also made amendments to the text, some of which were not planned before this debate in the House. For me, too, to have been a Member of Parliament, I consider that if our discussions do not lead to a result, it is that we are not up to what we must build together. In this case, we have been able to co-build these two texts. I welcome this and thank everyone for the quality of their work. With Polynesia, we have a common history and values. We also have a common project. It must have a trajectory: Path 5.0 speaks of the sustainable development of each overseas territory, putting excellence at the heart of our future actions. I believe it, because it is she that we must give, not only to future generations, as we are used to saying, but also to those of today. That is what we are going to bequeath to them and we must give a common meaning to our action. We have changed or groomed the status of Polynesia. The statutes, which are often the result of a long struggle in the territories, represent a huge gain for them. Yet, as Ms. Sage pointed out, these are just tools to serve our public policies, tools to realize the wishes of our fellow citizens and the directions that our communities are taking. Together with Mrs Pau-Langevin, with others who come, like me, from the overseas territories, I think that, in its first draft discussed in July, the constitutional reform was already talking about differentiation. In the Overseas Territories, we can go further on the path we would like to go or write. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] I believe in territories, communities, countries – I always pay great attention, out of respect for everyone, to using the different terms used here and there. In all humility, I think that, if we wish, we can once again take a moment of reflection, a time for debate to make other proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, UDI-Agir, LT and GDR groups]] One last word: this is the last time Mrs Fajgeles has passed a law. Madam Member, I hope you are pleased that this text concerns the overseas region. Attached to New Caledonia, you vote before leaving a Polynesian law. Thank you for your work and your involvement in overseas and, beyond that, in favour of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u236	It is not forbidden to imagine that Mrs Fajgeles may return with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-11-O1214.u237	Next meeting, Monday, 29 April, at 4 p.m.: Discussion on the industrial policy of the Government; Debate on the report of the Evaluation and Monitoring Committee on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime. The meeting is adjourned.
