ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u1	It was with infinite sadness that we learned of the death of our colleague Patricia Gallerneau, who here everyone appreciated the lively, playful, friendly personality in the service of the community. Patricia Gallerneau knew he had been condemned for months. Despite the burden of fatality on her, our colleague continued to assume his parliamentary responsibilities. Her fights for the Loire-Atlantique, for Pornichet, then for the Vendée and Europe, but also for ecology, she led them with the strength of conviction and the spirit of openness we knew her. With a singular dignity, she left as she lived, modesty and restraint. The National Assembly has lost an exemplary deputy. For Patricia Gallerneau embodied, beyond words, the dedication and sense of the general interest. To his family, to his relatives, to his colleagues in the MODEM Group and to his collaborators, I extend, on behalf of the national representative, my sad condolences. [[Members of Parliament and members of the government observe a minute of silence]] I will deliver Patricia Gallerneau's eulogy in a future session. In tribute to our deceased colleague, I invite you to observe a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u2	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u3	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u4	Thank you, Mr. President, for the words you just said for Patricia Gallerneau. On behalf of the group that she honoured with her membership, and on behalf of all those of you who have expressed their emotion, I would like to recall her ecological, social and territorial struggles. Fight for biodiversity, first. He was, of all his commitments, the first and the one of ever. She was one of the pioneers several decades ago. She even agreed to be a little lonely when she fought, before many of us, for animal welfare and species protection. Fight, then, for the human dignity that we owe to all those who live in the fringes of society. Let us remember his struggles for living conditions in prisons. Let us also remember its territorial roots in this eternal Vendée that it cherished, because the strongest roots are the ones we choose. Patricia Gallerneau had understood very early, with François, Marielle, Marc and the others, this paradox according to which the stronger the convictions and the bigger the tasks, the more they require to overcome the divisions and to do together what would be less accomplished alone. She was a parliamentarian as we all hope to be, a member of parliament committed to a project for the country with loyalty, and a local elected woman driven by personal convictions forged by her background and experience. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members rise and applaud at length. Mrs. and Mr. members of the Government also applaud]] His last words here were to quote Marek Halter: "Violence begins where the word stops. " Talking, talking always, even with those who do not think or believe like you, so that violence does not take the place of humanity: it is this message that we want to remember from this whole and so warm woman, thanking her for what she has accomplished and thinking very loudly about her husband, her three sons and Ninon, Arthur and Victor, her grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u5	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u6	The words that the head of Government will utter will have less scope and will touch the hearts of those close to the one we have known, than the applause that has just resounded on all of these benches, in this hemicycle that she loved so much. It is a mark of homage, a mark of respect, a mark of friendship which shows that in this Chamber, by noisy essence, by essence, legitimate and democratic confrontations, by essence, made up of passions that oppose each other, there is respect and commitment. There is also the conviction, which we all have here, that this electoral commitment, this particular life made of wonderful moments of achievement, sometimes exceptional, but also sacrifices and difficult moments, is worth living and worth having been lived. A few months ago, I was responding here to a question posed by Patricia Gallerneau, after she had been subjected to intolerable threats and acts at her private home. I told him how much the political commitment that was his – which is ours, which is that of thousands and tens of thousands of local elected officials – could have a cost, especially human and family, how much it was estimated and how much it had to be achieved. All her political life – and basically all her life – Patricia Gallerneau believed that we could engage in collective action to transform reality and improve the situations our fellow citizens are experiencing. This is a very simple and absolutely remarkable conviction. She has implemented it all her life in the subjects that have just been recalled, but also in her way of dealing with them, which is almost as important. [[All Members stand up and applaud at length]] So it is with great sadness that I answer you, but also with great hope, because the lives that have the value of example are the most beautiful. Patricia Gallerneau, like many of you, was an example. This is an exceptional responsibility. She took it to the end, against the disease, because she knew that her political commitment and mandate were in command. We can all, collectively, be proud of her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u7	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u8	It is difficult to speak after this beautiful tribute. Prime Minister, harassment, excision, forced marriage, physical and sexual violence: how many are the victims, women or men, to perish under the blows of their husband, spouse, partner or partner? How many children, collateral victims, remain marked for life? In 2018, one hundred and thirty women, sixteen men and twenty-five children were killed directly as part of domestic violence; Seventy-six women since the beginning of the year. On behalf of these victims, let us put an end to postures, divisions and speeches. Therefore, with regard to domestic violence, we ask you to accept our proposals, the main ones being: to generalize the electronic bracelet and make it pay to the violent spouse; organise a specialized justice system; keep track of complaints and handrails, even when women, under control, retract; stop considering the abusive spouse as a good parent and protect the children by removing them; create a national register of violent persons; provide for the provision of an extract of the criminal record at the time of marriage; develop accommodation, especially emergency accommodation. Many other measures are included in our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u10	Prime Minister, will you associate the entire national representation without sectarianism to take account of our proposals? The fight against domestic violence is a universal cause that deserves national unity and must not suffer any excuse, even cultural. We are finally united on this issue, even if we would be wrong to consider that an umpteenth Grenelle will solve everything. Let us fully agree on the measures that will make it possible to stop the fatal act in time. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] "Violence begins where the word stops," said Marek Halter, because it is the weapon of the weak, the refuge of the incompetent. To the courage of the victims who denounce their executioner, we cannot respond with cowardice, silence, division, communication or inaction. I'm telling the victims, you're not alone. I know that the entire national representation says it with me: you are not alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u11	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u12	Mrs Boyer, it is true that violence against women, gender-based violence and sexual violence are protiform, and there is a continuum between them, all of which come from the same phenomenon: sexism, which must be combated at the root. The Government has been fully engaged, for the past two years, in the great cause of the quinquennium of the President of the Republic, and important inter-ministerial work is being carried out on all the subjects you have mentioned: the national plan of action to eradicate female genital mutilation, which we have recently launched; the platform for reporting gender-based and sexual violence; the law in which parliamentarians were able to take part last year in order to better condemn gender-based and sexual violence. Finally, thank you for reminding you, a Grenelle of domestic violence will be held on September 3, 2019, with reference to 3919. Many of your proposals seem very relevant to me and deserve to be studied – some of them have already begun to be. The guard of the seals, Mrs Belloubet, has made important announcements about the generalization of the electronic bracelet, we will come back to that earlier. As for the question of the reception of women in police stations, it is dealt with by the Minister of the Interior, Christophe Castaner: we went together, two weeks ago, to a police station, to the police forces, with psychologists and social workers, so that the words of women were heard and none came out of the police station where she filed a complaint without a lasting solution to save her. All these actions are accompanied by communication campaigns because it is important to communicate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u13	That's all you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u14	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If no one knows the innovative public policies you are pursuing, no one can take it. If you launch a platform for reporting and dialogue with uncommunicated police officers, women do not know that it exists and they cannot appeal to it. That is why this Grenelle will involve everyone, as widely as possible: all the good wills, all the stakeholders, wherever they come from. Madam Member, you are welcome to the Grenelle des violences conjugales.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u15	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u16	Seventy and eleven, seventy-two, seventy-three, seventy-four, seventy-five... Madam Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination, when will we be able to stop this morbid count? Seventy-five women have been victims of femicide since 1 January. This is an unbearable figure: in France, again in 2019, a woman dies every two days under the blows of her companion or ex-companion. Above all, let us not minimize the important efforts undertaken over the past two years: we have passed a law against gender-based and sexual violence; we have allocated new means to the dangerous telephone device; we have strengthened the reception at emergency number 3919; We have created an online reporting platform available 24 hours a day and seven days a week.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u17	That's not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u18	If such progress is significant, this number, seventy-five femicides, requires great collective humility and even stronger action. If the scourge does not date from yesterday, we must now declare a state of emergency: women of all ages, of all origins, of all social backgrounds, of metropolis and overseas, continue to die. Sometimes they cried out for help, they filed a complaint; We need to understand and address malfunctions. Concrete measures are already on the table, and I welcome those announced by the guard of the seals, in particular the generalisation of the anti-approximation bracelet: it is a device in favour of which we have been ardently campaigning, for several months, in Val-d'Oise. You also announced a Grenelle of domestic violence. The voice of women and associations must be central to this process. I know this is your ambition, and you can count on the full support of the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] While our fellow citizens are waiting for strong answers, could you, Madam Secretary of State, explain to us the contours of this Grenelle and the concrete ambitions of the Government to put an end to the scourge of femicides?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u19	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u20	Thank you for your question, Mrs Lazaar. I obviously share your ambition, which I think is that of the whole nation. That is why mobilization must now be national. In order to combat domestic violence and femicide, the Government has been doing everything in its power for the past two years, as you pointed out. But he won't be able to do everything on his own. That is why we will organize the Grenelle of domestic violence: in order to put around the table all the stakeholders. I was this morning, for more than two hours, with all the French associations hosting women victims of domestic violence: all assured me of their support for this Grenelle and their active participation, and they have already made many proposals. This Grenelle will be held in Matignon and will be concluded by Prime Minister Edward Philippe. It will involve not only all the ministers concerned but also associations, representatives of victims and families of victims, the justice, police and gendarmerie services, health services, central and decentralised administrations to work on territorial disparities. We will discuss the dysfunctions together because the delta is too large between the policy driven by the Government and the reality sometimes found on the ground. This is what I did after several recent femicides, bringing together all the stakeholders in the ministry to build public policies together. This Grenelle will end on 25 November, a global day to combat violence against women. It will be accompanied by a national mobilization day around issue 3919 – that is why it will be launched on September 3, 2019. Several personalities will commit themselves, and several television groups have already agreed to a partnership in order to broadcast this issue as widely as possible and to raise awareness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u21	There's no money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u22	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Of course, additional resources will be allocated to carry out these new public policies. I have already announced this morning to the Fédération nationale solidarité femmes that we will ask it to estimate the additional needs generated by this campaign, in order to provide the necessary subsidies as well as emergency accommodation this summer, without even waiting for the Grenelle. They're acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u23	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u24	My question, to which I associate my colleague Patrick Hetzel, is addressed to the Minister for National Education and Youth. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the LR and SOC groups]] Yesterday, in Athis-Mons, Essonne, the principal of the Marcel-Pagnol high school was the victim of a horrific attack by two high school students who were not attending school on the grounds that they were unhappy that they had not obtained their baccalaureate. This aggression is absolutely scandalous and, on behalf of the national representative, I wanted to assure the principal of our support and sympathy and wish him a good recovery. [["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] Unfortunately, this aggression is not an isolated case. It echoes the rampant violence we experienced last December and spring in suburban high schools. We do not forget the fear felt by this teacher, who was robbed by a student last October, when it was not necessary to "make a wave". We must assure the entire educational community – teachers, principals, supervisors, technical and maintenance agents, educators, stakeholders, parents, students – of our determination to stand up to these episodes of unbearable violence. It is high time to stop complacency. How do you want teachers, students, parents to have confidence in the school of the Republic if the Republic is unable to protect those who transmit, those who give everything to make our young people succeed? [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] This intolerable violence, Minister, I do not confuse it with the anxiety and anger of the thousands of students and parents who have experienced what will undoubtedly remain one of the worst organizations in the modern baccalaureate. In truth, this 2019 bac is the result of complete disorganization and lack of anticipation. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] My two questions are simple: how do you intend to restore order effectively and sustainably in our schools? What steps do you intend to take to ensure that this 2019 bachelor's degree does not remain in memory as a two-speed and demonized baccalaureate? The summer is already ruined for thousands of students and families as well as for teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u25	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u26	No waves! No waves!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u27	Mr Reda, your speech brings together two subjects which, you will no doubt recognise, are very different. You spoke of the scandalous aggression of the principal of Athis-Mons that took place yesterday. Of course, we have deployed the necessary resources to this principal; I told her all my solidarity and the rectary of Versailles did the same. This act is absolutely scandalous. I would point out that a complaint was filed against the two young aggressors, who were arrested by the police. The follow-up is the responsibility of the judicial authorities; What has happened must be punished with the utmost severity. This event is an opportunity to highlight the role played by the heads of our country's institutions. You rightly recalled: they were on the front line during the violence that took place in December, as they are faced with many of the problems of our society. This aggression has nothing to do with the school organization or the school. It is due to the violence that these young people demonstrated on this occasion and that they had already practiced on several occasions, since they have a criminal record. The heads of institutions today have the right to all our solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u28	It's not enough to say it, you need action!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u29	They will have it in the framework of the anti-violence plan that the guard of the seals, the minister of the interior and I will prepare under the authority of the Prime Minister for several months and which will come into force next year. So we can all show our solidarity with this principal together without seeking polemics. Yes, new measures...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u30	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u31	...will make the 2019-2020 school year one of fighting violence that affects not only our school heads but also teachers and staff. As for the organization of the baccalaureate, I have already had the opportunity to speak a lot about it and I will come back to it later. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For the time being, it is important to show the unity of national representation in the face of violence against persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u32	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u33	On behalf of the Libertés et territoires Group, I would like to convey our compassion to Patricia Gallerneau's family and members of her group. Prime Minister, we will proceed to the consideration of the bill authorizing the ratification of CETA only a few days after the announcement of the MERCOSUR compromise. This approach poses a real democratic question: negotiations started in 2004, an agreement signed in 2016 and an agreement that has already been applied provisionally since 21 September 2017 were necessary for the Parliament to finally be seized of it. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, FI, SOC and GDR groups]] Even more than the timetable, it is the opacity that has surrounded the negotiations of this treaty that questions. This treaty directly affects our production methods and our lifestyles. I feel like with CETA, and even more with MERCOSUR, we're on a time machine. But the times have changed: in the last century, we could convince ourselves that trade would ensure peace, prosperity and democracy. Today's climate emergency forces us to think differently: free trade is at the root of the environmental problems we face. [[Same movements]] What is the meaning in this context of exchanging AOC quality products across the Atlantic for GMO-fed salmon and animal meal-fed beef? Have we measured the consequences of this treaty on our agricultural production models whose quality is the product and our territories supports it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u34	All right, Mr. Clement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u35	Let's end with the arguments of authority. Didn't anyone swear yesterday that the euro would bring the economies together? He made them diverge. That China would democratize after it joined the WTO? I'll let you appreciate the situation. On the contrary, I think, with Cyril Dion, that: "Everything is born from our stories. We therefore have, first and foremost, a cultural battle to wage. It is fundamental to propose a vision of the desirable ecology of the future, to project an imaginary [...] tangible, both political, economic but also [...] agricultural, energy". Why can't these stories of a new kind change our representations, positively contaminate minds and, if they are widely shared, translate into our treaties and laws? [[Applause on the benches of the LT and FI groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, is France ready to reverse the bad fate of CETA and, even more so tomorrow, MERCOSUR?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u36	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u37	Mr Clément, you are anticipating a debate that will take place in this House on 17 July when the bill authorizing the ratification of CETA is being considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u38	It's normal for us to anticipate it! To govern is to foresee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u39	It's already folded!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u40	As you know, this bill will be accompanied by a rigorous and independent impact assessment that we wanted together. It bears witness to the will that has guided the content of this agreement. This study – I imagine you have read it, Mr Clément – shows that the provisional implementation of CETA has been positive for our trade balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u41	It can be seen...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u42	This impact assessment also shows that none of the five sensitive agricultural sectors identified – beef, pork, poultry, sugar and ethanol – have suffered any negative consequences. Finally, it shows that our health and environmental standards remain unchanged. I therefore totally disagree with what you have just said about products imported by the European Union under this agreement. I would add that a new health audit will be conducted in Canada by the European Commission at the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u43	It's a little late!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u44	CETA is already supporting the strengthening of our cooperation in the fight against climate change with Canada; I am against the bilateral partnership concluded between our two Environment Ministers last April. CETA is a good deal...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u45	We have to stop saying that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u46	... which will be submitted to your discussion. It will strengthen our calm and healthy relationship with Canada, which is also our partner in re-founding multilateralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u47	What about Brazil?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u48	Mrs. Panot, please, a lower tone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u49	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u50	Prime Minister, I would like to associate my colleague Julien Borowczyk, Member of Parliament for the Loire with my question. Many EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent elderly people – public hospitals, out of age, require heavy work or even a complete reconstruction, in order to receive our elders with dignity and to provide staff with acceptable working conditions. This is the case, for example, of those of Montbrison, in the Loire, and Riom, in the Puy-de-Dôme. Although beneficiaries, these EHPADs are supported by hospitals that are in financial difficulty and unable to borrow. Also, RSAs – regional health agencies – and departments sometimes jointly consider their outright transfer to private operators. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] This type of transfer to the private sector raises complex legal issues, in particular related to public policy. It also raises the question of the rest of the burden, hence the financial accessibility for residents and their families. It also raises the question of the rates of supervision, in particular of the number of caregivers, which is known to be insufficient; The DRESS survey – the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health shows that these rates are even lower in the private sector. Finally, such a transfer creates a very high level of insecurity among staff, who are concerned about their status. This haste, Prime Minister, is particularly worrying, as the Libault report makes very interesting proposals. This haste is all the less understandable since you even announced in your last policy speech: "The Minister of Solidarity and Health will present at the end of the year a bill that will define a strategy and the programming of the means necessary to take charge of dependency. You even added: "As soon as the next Social Security Financing Bill comes, we will begin a first step, with measures to keep at home and investments in EHPADs. » [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] In view of this situation, we simply ask for a moratorium. Stop any plans to divest EHPAD's public hospital activity to private operators before the discussion of the addiction bill! Don't rob our public services, but strengthen them! This is the demand of families and staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u51	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u52	Ms. Pires Beaune, thank you for letting light be shed on the situation of the EHPADs, which are currently the subject of work: as you know, following Mr. Libault's mission, we are preparing a bill to reassure the French about our ability to accommodate our elders. The figures speak for themselves. I would remind you that by 2050, people over eighty-five years of age will be more than five million and the number of dependent elderly people will have doubled. We must therefore review our care model by increasing the number of caregivers among seniors and by better valuing the professions of older age. This week, I set up the mission led by Ms.Myriam El Khomri on the professions of old age, which is to submit concrete proposals for inclusion in the bill, which will be introduced at the end of the year. We have already heard the funding announcements that the Prime Minister made in his policy speech: they will be included in the Social Security Funding Bill that will be considered this fall to mark a first step in the maintenance and renovation of public EHPADs. There is currently no movement to privatize public EHPADs: this is absolutely not what the ministry has decided. We may have an opportunity to take stock of the EHPAD you mentioned. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any event, the Government's objective is clear: to upgrade these professions so that the conditions for our seniors' reception are calm, calm and make them want to live in new places of life, designed as service platforms to enable home care. The bill will be introduced at the end of the year after very broad consultation. You can count on our full commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u53	Mr Pierre Henriet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u54	First of all, let me associate myself with the tributes paid to our late colleague Patricia Gallerneau, as well as Martine Leguille-Balloy and Stéphane Buchou. In the riding area of the Vendée department, we had taken our first steps together in the National Assembly just two years ago. We are shocked by his disappearance and wish to express our condolences to his family and loved ones. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on several benches of the LR, SOC, IUD-I and GDR groups]] Minister of National Education and Youth, the first results of the baccalaureate were published on Friday, July 5, at the end of the first group of events. I take this opportunity to congratulate all the bachelors and wish them every success in their future. However, the 2019 session experienced an unprecedented situation. First, during the writings, calls to the surveillance strike led the academies to make specific arrangements to ensure the proper conduct of the tests. As a result of these writings, some professors have removed the copies to be corrected in the various examination centres while knowing full well that they would not give them back in time and time: in total, 40,000 copies, out of more than 4 million copies produced by the examination, were not returned on Thursday night! You had no alternative but to apply the back-up procedure in case of loss of copies, confirming that in case of missing note it would be replaced, "on a provisional basis", did you specify, by the average obtained by the student in the year of terminal in the subject matter concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u55	It's a big mess!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u56	Yesterday, finally, all the copies were traced back to the rectorates and deliberative centers. About 100 of these 1500 centres have been disrupted to varying degrees. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The baccalaureate took place in a deplorable manner, while it is one of our rare rituals appreciated by families and young people. Minister, how will the Government now react to this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u57	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u58	Mr Henriet, in fact, in June we experienced not one crisis, but three crises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u59	It's your fault!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u60	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The first one, which you mentioned, was that of the monitoring of exams. Some kind of threat weighed on the bachelor's degree, and I had to settle down as a guarantor of the smooth running of the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u61	Good thing you were here! How effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u62	You will have noticed, the session was organized normally. In this regard, we must pay tribute once again to the heads of institutions and to the vast majority of teachers and national education staff who have mobilized. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] The second crisis was climate: it forced us to shift the national patent tests by two days. We were able to do it in good order and give the results in time. Here again, we owe it to the incredible professionalism of the vast majority of national education personnel, who have been responsive and have shown an extraordinary sense of public service. I am proud of these people, to whom I pay tribute this afternoon. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] They showed the same qualities in the third crisis, the one that some sought to trigger, after failing in the first.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u63	Your words are shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u64	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u65	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You were right, honourable Member, to associate this action with a kind of sacrilege, because it was an institution of the Republic that was attacked. We have been able to react very quickly, so that we have been able to preserve as much equality as possible between the candidates, by ensuring that everyone becomes aware of their results in time and in time, thus avoiding problems of enrolment in higher education or of oral passage. We were able to get all the marks from last night, so that since ten o'clock this morning, all the candidates for the bachelor's degree have read their final marks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u66	Zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u67	This is obviously the best possible conclusion of a crisis that ultra-minority personnel wanted to trigger.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u68	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u69	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to pay tribute to the constructive France that has allowed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u70	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u71	For the past 18 months, teachers, parents and students have been mobilized to face your counter-reform of the baccalaureate. For the past 18 months, in compliance with the procedures, the trade unions and bodies such as the Higher Council of Education have voted against your reform of the baccalaureate. You say to the envious that your door is open, but show the opposite: we, parliamentarians, have not had the opportunity to discuss it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is therefore, and only as a result, that teachers have chosen to exercise their constitutional right to strike during the baccalaureate exams. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] Remember that these teachers do not fight for themselves, but for the general interest, because your counter-reform by creating instead of a national examination a multitude of local baccalaureates, is in breach with republican equality. [[New applause on the benches of the FI group]] Obviously, no one can be satisfied with the retention of the notes of an exam, not even the strike teachers, who – should we remind him? – carefully prepared their students for this exam.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u73	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It's your to-butism that pushed them to act like this. In the worst case, their action would have shifted the announcement of the results by one or two days. But instead of opening the dialogue, you have gone head down and committed a serious political mistake by giving absurd instructions within your ministry. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Over the past three days, the testimonies have come from professors, jury members, strikers and non-greevists, and principals who have been appalled by the instructions they have received. With your action, therefore, there was certainly no delay in the announcement of the results. But what results, with the DIY you orchestrated? Are we talking about the French Republic? Or is it about a banana republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u74	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u75	Minister, the retention of a few copies cannot be described as hostage-taking. As noted by a striker teacher, who was recaptured from the Bataclan attacks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u76	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u77	...this comparison is indecent. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Minister, what legal basis allows you to assume such decisions, in complete breach of the republican values defended by the strike teachers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u78	[[Extended applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Maxime Minot protested]] The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor. Mr. Minot, don't be jealous, it's the minister that we applaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u79	It's going to be nice in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u80	Your question, Mrs. Taurine, allows me to re-establish some truths. The first is that the reform of the baccalaureate has not been led head down: its first announcement dates back to the presidential commitments made in 2017. Then the Prime Minister mentioned it here in his policy statement in June 2017. This reform is also the consultation led by Pierre Mathiot for months, in which 40,000 high school students participated. It is, of course, the consultation that I then conducted with all the trade union organisations, which I have received several times. All this lasted almost seven months. We then introduced the reform of the baccalaureate – you may remember, it was in a television show, L'Émission politique, that all French people could see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u81	We're not watching TV!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u82	[[Mrs Elsa Faucillon protested]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It was at the beginning of 2018. So there has never been any secret or excessive speed. Then we implemented this reform. It turns out that a number of people have sought to create the challenge around a reform that acts in depth. This coincided with the end of last year, in a context that some sought to benefit – your party was not the last. What is certain is that this reform is done for students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u83	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u84	It's deep, and it's made for the students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u85	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u86	[[Long protests on the benches of the FI group]] It's for the students, because they've been consulted. In a few days, you will have the numbers and know what they have chosen as specialty teachings. Ask the second class of this year! Ask them if they do not feel that they have a new freedom today, much stronger than that of their predecessors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u87	Not all options are available everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u88	And you will have the answer to all your questions! It is a reform for freedom of choice, for the deepening of disciplines, but also for more equality...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u89	What do you do with the territorial divide?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u90	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...because, in reality, it is your conservatism that sustains inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u91	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u92	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, our health system is in a critical state, and many people are on the brink of burn-out. I want to pay tribute to all these professionals – doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, emergency workers – those women and men who allow France to have a health system that works best. Among the current difficulties, I would like to ask you about the medical demographics and the permanence of care in our rural and, sometimes, urban medical deserts. More than coercive measures, other avenues based on volunteerism and pragmatism are possible. For example, I would like to see an initiative launched in my constituency of Val de Saône, where collective work, putting everyone around the table – from local elected officials to doctors, the regional health agency, the ARS, and health insurance – has led to the emergence of innovative solutions, such as the opening of an ephemeral cabinet. Following a medical and social establishment, it is provided by newly retired salaried doctors, waiting, of course, for the planned installation of young doctors. But we are faced with a series of regulatory and administrative obstacles, from the authorisation to practice general medicine for the support establishment, to the payment of travel and insurance costs for the medical workers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] How, in our territories and as close as possible to the inhabitants, could the action of the State be more facilitating, guided by common sense, and allow both innovation, experimentation and the implementation of effective solutions against medical deserts?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u93	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u94	Thank you for highlighting a very interesting initiative from your territory, the ephemeral cabinet. Such an experiment has already led to the emergence of facilities in other territories. In the face of medical desertification, we must innovate and allow the actors of the territory to find the solution that is most suited to their expectations and the needs of the population. All projects must come from the territories; We must help them exercise this freedom, and every effort must be made to restore confidence to health professionals who engage in the most difficult territories. Restoring confidence means listening, exchanging, comparing points of view; This is what the SRAs, the primary health insurance funds – the SPACs – are doing today, the order of doctors and, of course, the professionals themselves, whether they work in the private sector or the public. We must promote the territorial health professional communities, the CPTS, through good territorial networking. In your constituency, eight multi-professional health homes are currently operating, and three more are expected to enter into operation by 2020. There is therefore an excellent dynamic in the Côte-d'Or. The deployment of telemedicine must also be encouraged, as it allows our least mobile citizens access to their treating physician. It can be promoted by both liberal doctors and health institutions. For example, in your electoral district, ten sites participate in the telecardiology program, and twenty-one sites participate in the teledermatology program. In total, nearly forty telemedicine sites are located in Côte-d'Or. We need elected officials, like you, to bring back the difficulties. We are here to find solutions, because it is not necessary under any circumstances for administrative harassment to break the energy of professionals. We are here to accompany them, you can count on our full commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u95	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u96	My question is to Mr Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Affairs. Every day, our fellow citizens are insulted with impunity for what they are in their being, in their flesh. Every day, human dignity is violated on the Internet. Every day, freedom of expression is undermined, because someone leaves social networks or ceases to share their opinions, for fear of being the target of a torrent of hatred, because of their alleged race, religion, sex, sexual orientation or disability. Cyberhaine is only a first step in the continuum of racist, anti-Semitic, homophobic violence. We can no longer turn our eyes away and let those who devour our fundamental rights do so to turn the Internet into a permanent hell. What is not tolerated on the street must no longer be tolerated on the Internet. We must all shoulder our responsibilities: the platforms, by implementing the means necessary to destroy the exhibition of these words; the authorities, by prosecuting and condemning these offenders, through the new specialized prosecutor's office, which I welcome; civil society, through awareness-raising and prevention activities supported by the new Online Hate Observatory. [[Serge Letchimy applauds]] These are the objectives of the bill on which we will vote in a few minutes. If we have put so much determination in this fight, it is because we believe that we can really change the course of things and not give in to fatalism, because we must ensure the safety and protection of Internet users, especially the weakest, because we have an obligation to achieve results in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Of course, we are not going to put an end to hatred today, because those who live only from the detestation of the other will always find ways to circumvent the laws and values of the Republic. It is a demanding and long-term fight that is engaged, but my question is simple: should we abandon our values and give up? We do not believe this, and that is why this text is at the opposite end of giving up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u98	What was the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u99	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u100	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Avia, I would like to thank you for your question and, more broadly, for your commitment and your fight to put this issue on the political and media agenda, and to carry out this bill, which I hope will be adopted in the coming minutes. I would also like to thank all the Members who have enriched and strengthened this text. They have shown that, on matters of general interest – in this case, the fight against online hatred – national representation can come together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u101	The majority rejected all of our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u102	As you said, this is almost a public health issue, because each of us, like every Frenchman, has known or witnessed online hatred and cyber-harassment, which sometimes lead to particularly tragic events – I am thinking of the young girl who ended those days just a few weeks ago. We must do everything we can to put an end to these abuses and finally punish those who hate online. For example, Nicole Belloubet proposed that our judicial process be radically changed to make it effective. It is also a matter of empowering social networks to put in place systems of moderation to match the stakes. Finally, it is necessary to raise awareness among all French, young and old, in order to make online hatred a subject of national political and media mobilization, and to stop it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are moving forward on this subject, with one concern: keeping the line between freedom of expression and the protection of the French. We managed to hold it together with the national representative. I am convinced that, on this subject, we have an obligation of result, because being able to protect the French, both online and offline, is the primary mission of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u103	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u104	Madam Keeper of the Seals, seventy-five women have been killed by their companion since 1 January; two of them lived in Saint-Denis, in my constituency. If the Grenelle of domestic violence announced for the re-entry can be useful, the femicides, on the other hand, do not know a truce. It is therefore urgent to act now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u105	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u106	For this purpose, laws exist: nine have been voted since 2010, i.e. one per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u107	There's still a need for resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u108	[[Applause on several SOC benches]] However, they are not implemented or are not implemented, and are therefore inoperative because of lack of resources. One thing is clear: the greatest empathy and the best communication will not stem this scourge, without concrete and financed measures. Spain has done so, but here in France we spend 0.0066 % of the dedicated budget, that of justice, which is among the lowest in the European Union. Judicial and police protection of victims is an imperative. None of the victims who cross the doors of a police station or a court must leave fear of it in the belly and at the risk of his life. But how could it be otherwise when the police stations are understaffed and, for example, because of the lack of a judicial police officer, what should have been a complaint becomes a common hand? How could it be otherwise when, in the courts, the time limits for taking decisions are incompatible with urgency? How could it be otherwise when the accommodation structures are saturated from 1 January to 31 December, which effectively prevents the immediate shelter of these women, often with children? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] My question, therefore, will be simple: Madam Keeper of the Seals, what do you intend to put in place, together with your colleagues in the Government, so that today, without waiting for the Grenelle, we will put an end to this macabre series?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u109	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u110	You are right, Mr Little, a law does not do everything: it is often a condition of action, but the realization requires going beyond the text, and it requires, of course, means. As far as justice is concerned, the programming law you have adopted provides for an increase in the budget of almost 25 per cent in five years – it will be a powerful asset in the fight against violence against women – and the increase in the number of judges is also a reality. However, beyond means, there is a need to change practices and attitudes. It's my obsession: you can't know how much I commit to chancery every day! This is a matter of the utmost concern to us, together with my Government colleagues, under the responsibility of the Prime Minister. We have legislation, such as the Protection Ordinance in force since 2010. But we found that civil judges were certainly using it, but not enough: in France we deliver 3000, compared to 10000 in Spain. I have sent a circular to prosecutors and prosecutors general asking them to encourage judges to make more use of it – and to make greater use of this procedure themselves. As far as the telephone is concerned, the same is true: we do not use it enough. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] However, there is one subject for which I will need an additional legislative catch: the anti-approximation bracelet, which has been shown to be effective in Spain. Your colleague Guillaume Vuilletet is particularly attentive to the subject. As early as this autumn, we will have this legislative catch-up, at least I hope so. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] I can assure you that with my colleague Marlène Schiappa and the Government as a whole, we are fully mobilized on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u111	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u112	My question is to Mrs Marlène Schiappa, Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and for Combating Discrimination. I associate all of my colleagues in the delegation to women's rights. On 12 July 1999, parliamentary delegations on women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women were established, with the support of all political groups, to assess the impact of each piece of legislation on women's rights. That is the mission of our delegation, in which we work together, beyond our partisan differences. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group – Erwan Balanant also applauds]] [[Same movements]] In this regard, I welcome the legislative progress made by our predecessors: the extension of access to abortion, under the leadership of Mrs Martine Lignières-Casso, the professional equality promoted by Mrs Marie - Jo Zimmermann, and the fight against prostitution, initiated by Mrs Catherine Coutelle. Twenty years later, as we renew Parliament's commitment to the fight for equality between women and men, the delegation is fully mobilized on the following subjects: improving access to abortion for all women and throughout the country; the elimination of out-of-date wage and professional inequalities; the requirement of parity at all levels of public decision-making; the fight against tragic violence against women, these indescribable tragedies which embody the denial of equality between women and men, which we will no longer tolerate and against which we will fight alongside you, Madam Secretary of State. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, let us remember Simone Veil's lesson: the way in which the status of women will change will have a fundamental impact on the future and balance of women, but also on those of society as a whole. So, Madam Secretary of State, how does the Government intend to put the urgency of equality between women and men in every part of society, so that the joys of our victories are no longer diluted in the tears of our defeats?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u113	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u114	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] Madam President of the delegation to women's rights, dear Marie-Pierre Rixain, I wish the women's rights delegation, which is celebrating its twenty-year anniversary, a happy birthday. I welcome the long-standing work that she has done in all legislatures to promote equality between women and men. Indeed, the delegation to women's rights was an important point of support and a sting on a number of topics. This is what you are today, personally, Madam President, on the issue of enhancing access to abortion for all women. I also welcome the expertise of Fiona Lazaar, who was the first to ask the Government to consider the use of the anti-approach bracelet for violent spouses, as well as the work being done by Laëtitia Romeiro Dias on the issue of menstrual rules and precariousness, and the work being done by Sophie Panonacle on the issue of senior women. The list could be very long... Within the framework of the G7, an Advisory Council on Gender Equality provides an overview of the best laws in the world on gender equality. Several of those selected are from the delegation to women's rights: the law on the balanced representation of women and men on boards of directors and supervision and on professional equality, known as the "Cope-Zimmermann law", which strengthens the position of women in corporate governance; the Act on the extension of the offence of obstructing the voluntary termination of pregnancy, adopted at the previous quinquennium, which mainly concerns the digital sphere; The law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, adopted in this legislature, which verbalizes street harassment and to which the delegation to women's rights has made a major contribution, as it has set up a working group that has developed this legal definition. This is proof of the commitment and effectiveness of the delegation. You continue this work, in connection with all departments. Recently, Muriel Pénicaud, Minister of Labour, negotiated the Convention on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work, adopted by the International Labour Organization, and undertook to have it ratified and transposed into French law as soon as possible. I know that you are also carrying out this work with others of my colleagues, and that you will also pursue it as part of the Grenelle de violence conjugales. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I call on the parliamentarians of the delegation for women's rights to encourage all our fellow citizens to send their contributions to the e-mail address grenelle@pm.gouv.fr. Thus, all local associations and elected representatives will be able to come closer to you and to us in order to continue this collective work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u115	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u116	[[Applause on many benches]] Madam Minister of Sports, after a month of celebration, the FIFA Women's World Cup ended with the victory of the United States team. A great congratulations to our team in France, which did not fully fulfill its sports contract but won the hearts of the French. In the opinion of all observers, this competition is a complete success. On behalf of the national representation, I extend our congratulations to the French Football Federation, Brigitte Henriques, Frédérique Jossinet and the entire organizing committee. A big thank you also to all the volunteers, in all the cities, who have made this success possible. This competition is a popular and family success, with more than 21,000 spectators per game on average and a stadium filling rate of 75%. It is also a media success, with more than a billion viewers around the world. I note a peak of 13 million viewers in the match between France and the United States, and, above all, an enthusiasm on the part of the youth, who represented 66% of the audience in the matches of the French team. Congratulations to TF1 and TMC for believing in this event, four years ago, by purchasing television retransmission rights. It is finally an economic, tourist and image success for the organizing cities. It's the chosen one from Le Havre, the city that hosted seven games, that tells you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u117	You could also pay tribute to the action of the associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u118	Yes, we can say it and be proud of it, France has won its World Cup. But now, minister, we have to transform the test, or rather mark the penalty, and succeed the legacy. The enthusiasm of young girls will translate – and already translate – into an increase in club enrolment. How do you intend to support this development and take action on the crucial issue of equipment, including changing rooms? How do you intend to encourage clubs to take a constructive stance on equal pay between players? More generally, women's sport is the winner of this competition. What steps do you intend to take to act on this dynamic? [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] France has yet to prove that it knows how to organize major events. Minister, how do you intend to put our country in a dynamic pattern of organizing major sporting events?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u119	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u120	You're asking me about the extraordinary success of the Women's Football World Cup. This success crowns France's strategy of hosting major sporting events: we do not limit ourselves to the organisation of events, but we think them from the outset as a lever for the influence of our country, its economic attractiveness and the development of sport practice. The reception of major events presents many challenges. The economic benefits are major. Together with the French Football Federation, we will soon present the results, in terms of economic impact, of this World Cup in which the state has invested €6 million – a sum that we consider to be a lever for economic benefits in the territories. A great event broadcast in plain language at home is also the way to encourage sports practice. For several months, the Fédération Française de Soccer has invested €15 million to ensure quality reception for new licensees at the start of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u121	You betray local associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u122	It is an exemplary work of anticipation that will respond to the requests you have made, in particular with regard to the provision of additional changing rooms, fields or lighting to accommodate young girls who will appear in clubs at the beginning of the school year. In addition, this women's event has made it possible to advance the performances. Women now feel that they can also make a pass, at least on a football field. The main issue is the structuring of clubs: we must take advantage of this momentum of the World Cup to stimulate investment in women's sections. In this regard, I will propose in the next few days the creation of a "high-level women's club" label allowing a restructuring of the high level in the direction of a better gender balance, within the framework of a regulated and virtuous system. I also welcome the arrival of new economic partners that are contributing to the development of our female elite. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, more attention should be given to women's sports in the media. This will require a political will to provide women's teams with forums adapted to television broadcasting and allowing for high-quality reception. Yet success...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u123	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u124	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u125	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, almost thirty years ago, France ratified the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. In its last report, in 2016, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child recommended, inter alia, that France better coordinate institutions working to respect the rights of the child. In addition to the adoption of the CIDE, which concerns almost 16 million children in our country, France signed the 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Target 16.2, which is part of the goal of peace, justice and effective institutions, aims to end child abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence and torture. Yet, even today in France, one in ten children is the victim of violence. During the time we have just spent in this Chamber, a child has been raped and, within the next 72 hours, a child will lose his life as a result of violence in the family circle. Needless to say, this fact obliges us all to act. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the IUD-I group]] That is why I am pleased that both the Government and the Parliament are at the same time taking stock of these issues. While the fact-finding mission on social assistance for children has just issued its conclusions and the Senate has voted to ban ordinary educational violence, you have been working for several months, in consultation with the sector's actors, on a pact for children, based on three pillars. At the National Child Protection Assemblies, which took place in Marseilles last weekend, you committed yourself to putting the child, his or her basic needs, rights and speech at the heart of our public policies. Could you share with us the main measures of the Pact for Children and clarify the timetable for its implementation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u126	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u127	In this year of the thirtieth anniversary of the European Convention on the Rights of the Child, I can only welcome the fact that Parliament and the Government are dealing with the issue of children. The figures you have just indicated show that society as a whole must now deal with this issue. I was actually in Marseille last Thursday to open the Assises de la protection de l'enfant. What do children on child welfare actually expect from us? What does the Republic owe them? No more or less than allowing them to be children like others, I think. To be children like others is to have the same rights as others: to be cared for to be healthy, to be educated, to feel safe, to make his word heard, to live the same daily life as his boyfriends, to be able to go to a birthday on a Saturday night – for them, it is today complicated, if not impossible – to be able to project themselves into the future, into studies, into a job. Mrs Provendier, in an ideal world, social assistance for children would not exist, in reality; Nor, probably, my State Secretariat. That is why we must face up to violence against children. This is the whole meaning of the inter-ministerial plan to mobilize and fight for a child-free society that the Government as a whole will unveil next year. You know, the best way, or rather the first way, to protect a child is to start with your parents in their parenting project. This is the whole meaning of the work we do on the first thousand days of a child's life, from the fourth month of pregnancy to the child's two years of age. This is where everything is played, the President of the Republic said: this is where the child's health and development are played; This is also where social inequalities are often forged and deepened. That is why we must overinvest in the first thousand days of the child. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, as an individual but probably also as a nation, let us remember that childhood is the land on which we walk all our lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u128	On the whole of the bill to combat hate on the Internet, the vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u129	Mr Luc Carvounas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u130	Madam Minister of Labour, in a letter dated 12 June, I asked you about the alfortvillis site of Chronopost, in which a strike movement was launched by dozens of undocumented workers. My mail and appointment request remained dead letter, so I ask you directly my question. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several FI benches]] What's this about? An unacceptable professional and human situation. Indeed, the La Poste group – a public company, let us recall – uses undocumented workers, pretending not to know it. They unload trucks carrying Chronopost shipments and sort them out to allow their distribution. They are deprived of basic rights due to employees. They hire at three or four in the morning, they are employed part-time for 600 euros a month and, of course, there is no question for them of getting sick or carrying social demands! This inhuman treatment is unacceptable. Nevertheless, it is not the responsibility of your government, let us all recognize it together. It is the result of a laissez-faire in our country for thirty years. Yes, we close our eyes to what is nothing other than modern slavery. It is not acceptable for undocumented workers to be employed for the sole purpose of reducing operating costs. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] We cannot content ourselves with the ambiguities of the various employers, whether direct or indirect, who are dumping the question on a third party. Humanly, I am in solidarity with these workers: from Demba, Mohamed, Sekou, Samba and all the others, confronted with the iniquitous system of subcontracting in cascade. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Madam Minister, my question is clear: are you ready, together with the Government, to carry out a survey of the La Poste group? Are you prepared to issue temporary work permits to these workers, as long as their regularization file is reviewed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u131	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u132	Mr Carvounas, the problem, I believe, is that of quality control of employment in subcontracting in France. Subcontracting is not bad in itself, as long as the general social rights apply. This is sometimes the case, but not always, when no contractor is exempt from the duty of vigilance provided for in the Labour Code. [[Exclaims on the SOC and FI panels]] How can we make progress? Yesterday, on behalf of the Prime Minister, I chaired the national commission to combat illegal labour, whose field of competence includes the subjects of hidden work and unfulfilled conditions of employment, and until that of trafficking in human beings – because there may be such unacceptable situations in France, which often manifest themselves through unhealthy housing or unworthy living conditions. Yesterday, I think, we made great interdepartmental progress on these issues by adopting the 2019-2021 plan to combat illegal labour, with considerably strengthened inter-ministerial work, involving tax services, competition services, customs, labour inspection, justice, police, the Ministry of the Interior, transport, the MSA – the Mutuality of Agricultural Social Affairs – in short, everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u133	What about La Poste?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u134	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] On all the subjects concerning unequal conditions of employment, no employer can be protected. There is a social right in our country and there is a right in general. On all the issues before us, we will now work much more interdepartmentally. The new element is that, thanks to the law on the fight against fraud and the law on the freedom to choose one's professional future, we will be able to share all the data and act wherever necessary, in La Poste and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u135	The only solution is regularization!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u136	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u137	The next item is the public vote on the whole bill by Mrs Laetitia Avia and others to combat hate on the Internet (No. 1785, 2062, 1989).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u138	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u139	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 536 Number of votes cast 467 Absolute majority 234 For adoption 434 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u140	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u141	[[The sitting was suspended at 16:15 and resumed at 16:30, with Annie Genevard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u142	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u143	Mr. President has received, pursuant to articles L.O. 176 and L.O. 179 of the Electoral Code, a communication from the Minister of the Interior dated July 9, 2019, informing him of the replacement of our late colleague Patricia Gallerneau by Patrick Loiseau.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u144	The next item is the debate, on the one hand, on the proposal for a law establishing a national agency for the cohesion of the territories (No 2066, 2121), on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, on the proposal for an organic law on the appointment of the Director-General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories (No 1835). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u145	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u146	First of all, let me have an emotional thought for Patricia Gallerneau, Member of Parliament for Vendée, who was a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning. Throughout her life, she has waged numerous fights, the last one against the disease. A tribute was paid to him earlier. I would like to reiterate this and to extend my deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. We are discussing in final reading the proposal for a law establishing a national agency for the cohesion of the territories. The first reading of this text took place in the Senate on November 8. The final version of this text, which will be adopted in a few moments, was reached eight months later by particularly intensive parliamentary work. First of all, I would like to warmly thank the many parliamentarians of the two assemblies who have been involved in the drafting of the text. In the National Assembly, the work, both in committee and in open session, has mobilized many of you. I welcome your commitment, both in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning and beyond. This, in my view, reflects the political, technical and operational interest of this agency, which will serve the territories – which is, of course, a source of satisfaction for the Government. I particularly welcome the work of your rapporteur, Yolaine de Courson, as well as the work of the draftsmen, Christophe Euzet and Célia de Lavergne, and the information rapporteur of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, Didier Martin. They have been heavily involved in improving this bill, through important contributions, such as support for innovative projects or the search for a balance in the governance of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories – ANCT – through the principle of second deliberation. In total, no fewer than 235 amendments were adopted during the legislative process, demonstrating the wealth of collaboration between Parliament and the Government, between the two assemblies and among all parliamentary groups, which led to the production of this bill. This very broad support for its creation will provide the Agency with a foundation, demonstrating not only its interest, but also its very broad expectations on the ground. This does not, however, remove the differences we have had, particularly with regard to governance and balance in the Board of Directors, which have not been resolved in the Joint Committee. We regret it, because it has wasted us valuable time – several months – in creating and launching the ANC, which can only be detrimental to the territories, who expect this new tool to provide important support. It is indeed essential that the Agency be able to rapidly deploy its activities to all territories, particularly the most fragile, whether urban or rural. That is why my services are already working on the draft decree, so that it will be published in the fall. Beyond the constitutions – the law and the decree – we are also carrying out important preparatory work for the creation of the Agency. This includes ensuring that the transition takes place as best possible for each of the existing structures – the Office of the General Commissioner for Territorial Equality or CGET, the National Public Establishment for the Development and Restructuring of Commercial and Craft Spaces, or EPARECA, the Digital Agency – and that all the people who will work in this new institution find their place and feel good about it so that they can carry out as much activity as possible for the benefit of the territories. This work is currently being carried out, under my authority, by the Commissioner-General for Equality of the Territories, Prefect Serge Morvan. I would like to welcome him: if it is less visible, this task is just as difficult and decisive for the Agency to start on a good basis. When the draft decree is ready, we will work on the circular that the prefects will receive. I will not forget the commitments made before you, and this circular will not ignore the concerns that you have expressed and which will thus find a translation on the ground. A further commitment was made to senators to address to the mayors, at the time of the launch of the ANC, a letter informing them of the role and tasks of this new tool, and of how elected officials can mobilize it. Some of you had expressed concern that some elected officials would not be able to access the ANCT due to a lack of information on its existence, role and modalities of intervention. Through this letter, as well as through other measures that we will implement in the coming months, we will ensure that all elected officials, including those from smaller communities, have the information they need to call on this agency if they need it. A large-scale communication work will thus be carried out. I do not know if future texts will change the one we are debating today, but it is very likely. Let me hope that, on the day that happens, the constructive spirit that prevails today will continue and, above all, that future developments will enable the Agency to maintain its agility in its creation. We are creating this new framework by hoping that it will not limit, on the ground, the room for manoeuvre of state services, operators and elected officials, and that the ANC will find its place in each of the territories, in an appropriate manner and respecting their particularities. We know this: many structures work well, not because the law applies to them with great precision, but because of great flexibility in practice. Let us ensure this flexibility, and let us accept that, in practice, the activity of this agency may vary from one territory to another, as long as this differentiation is desired by local actors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] In the light of these comments, the Government invites you to adopt this bill, so that the legislative process started last October can be completed. The practical work will continue with the very rapid installation of the Agency by the Government at the service of all the territories, thus giving concrete expression to the commitment made by the President of the Republic to the local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u147	Mrs Yolaine de Courson, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, has the floor on the proposal for a law establishing a national agency for territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u148	We have reached the end of the legislative path of this bill creating a national agency for territorial cohesion, which began in the Senate more than eight months ago. I will not go back to previous episodes, because it is the expectations and projects coming from the territories that have always guided me. This agency will be flexible, because it will adapt to local specificities, keeping as close as possible to the projects it will accompany. It will be effective, because it will mobilise all actors to collectively guarantee the development of innovative projects. It will be differentiating, because it will rely on local assets, wealth and singularities to bring projects to fruition in all the territories where it will be called upon. We all agree: it is at the local level that we see whether or not a law is appropriate. Yes, it is in the territories that our fellow citizens observe the real effects of the legislator's work – we see it every time we return to our constituencies. That is why I did not wait for the creation of the ANC to make it known to the local elected officials, who are the main stakeholders of this new entity at their service. The tour of France that I undertook to present the ANC has already led me in the Pyrénées-Orientales, in the Loiret, in Côte-d'Or and I will soon go to the Hérault, in the Sarthe, in the Nord, in Isère, in Haute-Saône and in the Loire, to meet the mayors, representatives of the regional and departmental councils, the presidents of countries and all those for whom this agency was designed. I would like to share with you some of the questions that I have been asked during these public meetings. From an elected member of the Loiret: "Will the prefect really help us if we appeal to this agency? What will happen if the project is not fully completed? From the Mayor of Varanges, in Côte-d'Or: "Can I get subsidies to clean up a site in my commune? Will the ANCT be able to support such a project? The Mayor of Flavigny: "How can I make my projects come to fruition, while sectors such as tourism or the creation of third places are the responsibility of the region? The mayor of a rural commune near Perpignan: "How can we access European funds under the ANCT? » There is no need to multiply the examples: you will have understood, the questions on the ground, it is not how many people will make up the board of directors, whether the territories concerned will be located near the sea, on the mountain, in the metropolis or overseas, whether they will be rural communes, countries or intercommunalities, or what the operating budget of the ANCT will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u149	Let's just put it down a little bit, though...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u150	What is expected on the ground is a change in method: that the state finally and fully plays its role as facilitator, and that this agency informs and advises project promoters on mobilizable budgets, for example European funds. What is expected is that this agency is accessible to all and that engineering – perhaps I should say "collective intelligence" – is put at the service of the territories to give them the opportunity to undertake and develop. This agency is part of the new territorial public policy for social cohesion, economic attractiveness and ecological transition that we want to pursue. We want this policy to be at the service of reducing the territorial, social and digital divides. The Agency carries this ambition in its DNA. Since the inclusion of the draft law on the agenda, France has gone through one of the most important citizenship crises of the Fifth Republic. Since we began the discussion of the text in the Assembly, more than 10,000 local initiative meetings have been organized by elected representatives, associations and citizens in the framework of the Great Debate. Nor do I forget the European elections, which have underlined the cruel feeling of abandonment felt in the most fragile territories, whether rural or urban. These episodes show that a change is necessary, a change that we call for and which consists, on the one hand, of trusting territorial intelligence and of making local actors much more enthusiastic than we think, on the other hand, of abandoning some of our old reflexes to adopt new forms of accompaniment to territorial dynamism. Dynamism and enthusiasm: these are two traits of character that never leave me, in the Chamber as in the Agency's presentation meetings – and as we come to the end of this legislative path, allow me to share this dynamism and enthusiasm with you, elected from both the opposition and the majority. Thank you for having our debates in session: this proves that in the end, we wish the success of the Agency on all fronts. I also thank the draftsmen for their opinions, who accompanied me and shared my enthusiasm. I have a thought for the excellent President Barbara Pompili, whose support has been unwavering, as well as for all my colleagues in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, who have given me their support and assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u151	Madam rapporteur, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u152	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The roadmap of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories is clear – but the vision that must be ours for the country goes well beyond the creation of an agency, however indispensable it may be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u153	Mr Christophe Euzet, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for an organic law on the appointment of the Director-General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u154	In my capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws on the proposal for an ordinary law, I welcome the future creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, as has been said, of a presidential campaign promise taken over by the majority. I think I can say, minister, that we have worked hard with you and your services. The rapporteur, whom I warmly thank, stressed this – rapporteur that, by the way, I invite you to come and present the future agency in my constituency next week alongside several colleagues who are very involved in this work. I will not go back to what was the heart of our work – it has already been mentioned. The aim is to make available to the territories resources relating both to the legal design and to the financing or implementation of projects and, in so doing, to reverse the vertical logic which, too often, went from top to bottom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u155	Yes! We need to move from top-down logic to bottom-up logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u156	Nor will I go back to the arrangements adopted, namely a single window in the hands of the Prefect and simplified procedures as a result of the rapprochement of central structures. With regard to the draft organic law, on which I was the rapporteur on the substance, the Assembly and the Senate both considered that the appointment of the Director General of the Agency was, to quote article 13 of the Constitution, a matter of "guaranteeing the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the nation". The draft organic law has therefore been adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, in the version before you today. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I warmly thank my colleagues, as well as the minister, for her determination and commitment. I assure you that the ANC will soon be put at the service of our territories and their administrators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u157	In the joint general debate, Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u158	The National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories should finally be established. This agency, whose IDU and independent group proposed the creation of more than a year and a half ago, in December 2017, reflects a commitment made by the President of the Republic more than two years ago. The Agency will bring together some agencies and ensure better coordination in projects. It will be designed to address the growing divide between territories, particularly in rural areas. While many means are being mobilised, quite rightly, in favour of the city's policy, we must not forget that our rural areas, which attract less attention, are just as fragile. The spirit that should govern the future agency must therefore be cohesion and equality between all territories. This agency is essential for defining an overall vision and ensuring the coherence of territorial policy. As it stands, and we regret it, however, it will not be a one-stop shop for communities, but a new entity, among the multiple state institutions that operate at the local level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u159	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u160	However, we recognize that this agency marks the beginning of the rationalization of State operators, even if we would have liked the text to go a little further in this area. Improvements are also expected in the ANC's leadership, which we believe is still too dependent on the personality that will be chosen to lead it and the government's momentum. The Agency will also allow – I would like to stress this – to involve local elected representatives in the cohesion policies of the State, thanks to the presence of these elected representatives on the board of directors and, at departmental level, in territorial cohesion committees. The elected representatives must be truly involved in decision-making, not in the face of fait accompli.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u161	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u162	The cohesion of the territories, in fact, will not be achieved without the elected representatives or the parliamentarians. It will not be done without the elect, because they know their territories perfectly; They must therefore have their full place in the organisation of the Agency. It is on this subject in particular that the Joint Joint Committee has failed, and we regret it. Another major issue is the simplification of standards and contracting, which has never been addressed during the ten months of review of the text. However, this is an essential point for the day-to-day management of smaller communities and for the readability of our public policies by our fellow citizens. We therefore look forward to proposals in this area in the context of the future bill for new confidence in local elected officials, and we hope that our ideas will find a positive response. The question remains of the funding and resources allocated to the Agency's actions. No additional funding is provided for it. It is therefore on a constant basis that it will have to do more and meet the expectations of local elected officials. You will therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen, that, because of their weakness, the provisions of the two texts disappoint a little in the light of their initial ambition, especially since the operational nature of the future agency is not the most proven. However, these two texts are a good start, and the ANC must be given its chance. However, it will be necessary to go further in the years to come in order to achieve a genuine one-stop shop and simplify community standards by experimenting with derogations. In particular, we will ensure that the cities are not the only beneficiaries of the Agency and that the territories have their full place, in line with their needs. Despite the questions that remain, we therefore believe that the creation of the Agency should be encouraged. That is why our group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u163	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u164	A little less than a month ago, by his general policy statement, the Prime Minister launched Act II of the quinquennium. The territorial component consisted of a statement addressed to local elected officials, without which, according to him, "democracy is only an empty shell". Through this inflection, the Prime Minister also promises to renew a "need for proximity" that "engages both local authorities and the state". This will be discussed again in the context of the future Decentralization and Differentiation Bill, at which our group will make many proposals. If we find ourselves largely in this observation and in your intentions, our questions relate to the implementation of these. The same applies to the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. As can be seen from the parliamentary shuttle, the text creating it even resembles a vestige of Act I. Indeed, while the present bill provided an opportunity to set up a new type of agency, allowing for genuine collaborative work between the state and the territories, the ANC is, on the contrary, supporting a centralizing government policy, far removed from the girondin pact that we call for. Simplification of the tools and the consolidation of agencies and other operators of the State is indeed a strong demand of our local elected representatives: this point, which makes consensus, was one of the initial ambitions of the creation of the new agency. We are sensitive to the idea of creating a one-stop shop, listening to the mayors, in order to avoid the multiplication of the interlocutors. For this reason, we welcome the merger of much of the CGET, EPARECA and the Digital Agency. For example, EPARECA, which specializes in the restructuring of commercial and artisanal spaces, particularly in the priority areas of city policy and for the operations of territorial revitalization, is included in the new set, but not the CEREMA – Centre for studies and expertise on risks, the environment, mobility and planning – while its mission is to support the territorial actors in the implementation of their projects and to benefit from territorial implantations. By comparison, EPARECA is about 50 FTEs – full-time equivalents – and CEREMA is about 2700. This illustrates the Agency's lack of ambition. However, we have made proposals, of which we measure the innovative nature, in particular that of merging, in the long term, several operators within the same large agency: CEREMA, therefore, but also ANAH, the National Housing Agency, ANRU, the National Agency for Urban Renewal, and ADEME, the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management. We regret that this scenario, envisaged during the prefiguration phase, has been ruled out. I fear that, on the ground, the creation of the ANC will bring no real change. Currently, elected officials seeking support, including financial support, for a project seek the sub-prefect or the prefect. Once the agency is established, they will go to the territorial delegate, that is, the prefect. It is especially in the area of its governance that the Agency deeply disappoints. As we propose real co-management with the communities, the scheme, for the moment, remains jacobin. Even our proposal for a single territorial delegation at the scale of Corsica was rejected, while it corresponded to the particular organization of the community in question. This imbalance in governance is reflected in the composition of the Board of Directors. The majority's refusal of equal representation of elected officials and the State was the stumbling block in the Joint Joint Committee. Although the ANC is a state-owned public institution, communities will be financially involved, which is quite normal, in the projects they defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u165	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u166	So why not consider an agency based not on an unbalanced relationship, but on a renewed partnership? It should be noted that the temporary blocking minority cannot correct this imbalance. In addition, I remember that if the President of the Agency is chosen by the local elected representatives, the Director will be appointed to the Council of Ministers. And what about the National Coordinating Committee, which brings together the financers, but from which are excluded associations representing elected representatives? Finally, it is assumed that the Agency will not receive new funding, which undermines its ambitions. Our group believes that a recasting of relations between the State and the communities is the prerequisite for any structural improvement in the country's economic and social situation. The ANCT, in relation to the departmental engineering agencies, could have been part of this dynamic. It would then have endorsed a new way of governing, closer to local realities and the aspirations of the French. The Government has made another choice, and we can only regret it. That is why the freedom and territory group, by its majority, will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u167	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u168	[[Smile. - Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] Like previous speakers, I will not say much. The National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, in relation to innovation, induces a servificial posture which I believe is fundamental to improving agility and flexibility while, of course, strengthening the partnership will, close to the ground, with the local actors, the elected ones, whom we know well. These elected representatives are able, within the framework of a shared and renewed dialogue, to foster involvement closer to the ground, with a view to creating real synergies with the new agency. This one, perhaps its main merit, commits a new governance, oriented towards innovative projects – because that's what history means: innovation. Passing past her means missing out on the future, and missing out on the future, that's not possible. For the future agency, problems of the adership are mentioned. This is not the bottom of the problem! What will be put to the test is rather its capacity for reflexivity – because, in essence, that is what we will ask of it. What we'll ask him to do is co-production. Indeed, as the rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee has just explained, there is a problem with top-down logics, which should be replaced by bottom-up logics, which are the ones that citizens, as well as local elected representatives, expect. The expressions I have just used, I know well, will be translated into French by the service of the record of the sitting, but what do you want, I try to adapt, to "disrupt", to live up to the innovations that we are undertaking within the administrations – because this stacking of the interlocutors is intolerable. These interlocutors, do not fear, will always exist, but the local elected representatives will have only one, at the departmental level: the territorial delegate of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, who will ensure the link with the prefecture's services and, in doing so, will also guarantee the inter-ministeriality of all these operators, which, let us say, are far too numerous. [[Smile]] I had to write down all the acronyms myself, because I didn't know them by heart. We have the ANRU, the ANAH, the CEREMA, the CDC – Caisse des dépôts et consignations –, the EPARECA... I do not know if there is an acronym for the Digital Agency, since "AN" is already taken by the National Assembly. If I say: "The complicated relations between ANRU, ANAH, ADEME and CEREMA do not allow the CGET, in conjunction with the ANC, to lead to innovative projects", we realize that there is a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u169	Not for local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u170	Hence this necessary bill, which will clarify the situation and clarify who should do what and how. Far beyond all these amphigoris... – but I see you cautious, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u171	No! I'm listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u172	You listen to me, but I see you cautiously – and I also am, moreover, in front of this text. I agree that my point is quite abstruse. Nevertheless, and this is extraordinary, the CGET, in liaison with the ministry, will give a number of directives to a national cohesion agency of the territories, which, moreover, will absorb the part of the CGET that will not remain within the ministry and will lead committees in a horizontal way – you will excuse me, but I do not know how it is said in English – through agreements with ANRU, ANAH, ADEME, CEREMA and the CDC, so that everyone cannot act as he wishes, but nevertheless keeping his prerogatives because, isn't it, we must not mess with... [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] Everyone invokes the budget, the means, the budget, the means... but the budget, we don't care! The important thing is the idea that drives us to establish this agency: more flexibility and agility for renewed efficiency and, dare we say, to achieve efficiency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u173	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u174	The present text was to mark a new act of decentralization, but it does not include any impact study worthy of that name. It is therefore proposed that we legislate a little blindly on an essential subject, since it is a question of responding to the concerns of mayors and their engineering needs, which have been particularly acute since the abolition of the technical assistance provided by the State services for reasons of solidarity and spatial planning. The creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories is decided in a difficult climate for local elected representatives. It can therefore only lead to questions and a careful examination of the Agency's real means and objectives. The expectations of mayors in terms of facilitation, coordination and simplification are very strong. However, in our view, this text will not answer that, Madam Minister, because it misses a number of issues. As our honourable senators have noted, this agency will have the sole function of being a one-stop-shop for communities, and only for the purpose of pooling existing resources. It will be an agency with a fairly small perimeter, but which, as the previous speaker pointed out, will be able to contract with all the operators of the State and to act on the State services and their deconcentrated directorates. The Agency will therefore play a role as a provider – a role, all in all, narrow. We believe, for our part, that the State cannot confine itself to such a role: it must be the guarantor, as a last resort, of republican equality – an equality which has been brutally undermined by the decline of public services in the territories, with the stagnation of the endowments, the closure of hospitals, maternity hospitals, classes, post offices, stations, the suppression of territorial public engineering and the weakening of the territorial civil service. All these developments have as a corollary the constant strengthening of social and territorial inequalities. As I indicated at first reading, there is a great risk that the Agency's action, devoid of resources, will be reduced, at best, to powdering, at worst, to a stench. In the absence of a clear direction in favour of the forgotten territories of the Republic, whether rural or urban, this tool will once again place communities in competition for the promised aid in engineering or the meagre subsidies that must always be sought.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u175	[[Smile]] Yes! We have to challenge!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u176	This undermines our understanding of the relationship between the state and local and regional authorities. In the same spirit, we note that in our discussions, there has been much more talk of intercommunalism than of small municipalities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u177	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u178	... whereas the latter are the level of proximity par excellence and it is they – especially the smallest – who suffer the most from the management deficit. Hence the need for fragile municipalities to be the main beneficiaries of the Agency's support and expertise, particularly in the run-up to project construction. Another disappointment is the removal of the contribution of the inclusion of soil pollution control in the Agency's missions. However, for local elected representatives, this is a major issue, which concerns both land, public health and the environment – as you pointed out, Madam rapporteur, at the end of your meeting with a mayor. Minister, we have passed many texts since our first discussions on the creation of the ANC: the Public Service Transformation Bill, the Health System Organization and Transformation Bill, the Mobility Orientation Bill, the Energy and Climate Bill... What is in common with this text? The systematic referral by the Government and the majority to the free administration of local and regional authorities – especially for innovative projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u179	Ah, the famous "innovative projects"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u180	[[Smile]] And this without just once – I insist – the ANCT fairy was an argument to help the local and regional authorities in the design, financing and implementation of their projects tomorrow. That is to say, Madam Minister, if the Government does not believe in this "unidentified voting object"! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We will not vote for this text, which seems to us to be a strictly opportunistic text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u181	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u182	Native and elected to rural life, I am particularly committed to the history of the territories, to their ability to innovate and to promote living together. There is no doubt that territories and their populations have a crucial need for cohesion. Local authorities and elected representatives are willing and self-sacrifice to exercise their prerogatives. The elected project promoters have expressed a real and profound desire for simplification and support for projects that too often fail to succeed. We can no longer continue to maintain this mistrust. We must no longer stick to words. The time has come for concrete action. That is why the President of the Republic, after the major national debate, referred to the need to give priority to a fully social approach to the territory, thus rethinking the State's action on the ground. The creation of the ANC is a first concrete response to the need for a strong evolution of the relationship between the State and the territories, a State closer to local actors, a State that listens more and supports local projects by mobilizing the available resources more effectively. Unfortunately, however, it has been delayed by those who claim to serve the territories. This has made us waste valuable time, which I regret. The debate focused on the governance and composition of the Agency's Board of Directors. The Senate majority, driven by purely tactical considerations, was locked in the demand for a veto power for communities, which could have led to the Agency's paralysis. As the ANCT is a state agency, it seems normal for the State to have a majority of votes on the board of directors. We do not imagine for a moment that the state, within the framework of a territorial agency entirely intended to support local projects, does not seek the broadest consensus on the issues discussed in the board of directors. Members of Parliament who have experience in a local mandate are well aware of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u183	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u184	I have heard on several occasions that the creation of the ANC would result in recentralisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u185	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u186	On the contrary, the result will be a deconcentration: decisions will be taken as close to the ground as possible. The decentralizers we are can be pleased with this: this is a sign that local and regional authorities will be able to spend time thinking and acting, rather than completing files in several copies. The ANC Single Window is our ambition, and it is even a necessity. The necessary flexibility is needed for co-built and relevant projects to emerge in each territory. When territorializing a policy, consideration must be given to the needs of all territories. In order to deal with the social challenge, which is largely the result of deeper and deeper territorial divides, it is essential to set up this agency to strengthen the cohesion of the territories. In conclusion, I would like to thank all my colleagues, as well as the minister, for the quality of our exchanges – not to mention Prefect Morvan. We are all aware, Madam Minister, of your commitment to the territories and rural areas. With this text, as well as with others, you have demonstrated your pragmatism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, on the basis of these observations, the La République en marche group invites you to adopt the bill establishing the ANCT, so that the Government can set up the agency quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u187	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u188	We reach the conclusion of the examination of the bill establishing a national agency for territorial cohesion. Unfortunately, the various parliamentary shuttles did not resolve the questions and doubts which, in our view, are rather a bad augury for the Agency's success. We all agree that the reasons behind the drafting of this bill and its purpose are perfectly commendable. Currently, small municipalities, communities with weak engineering capabilities and rural areas are seeking a structure that could support them, assist them in setting up their projects and help them cope with the great complexity of the procedures, which is compounded by the multiplicity of stakeholders and operators. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that Members of the Republican Group are all aware of the need to support the most fragile territories. On the other hand, as provided for in the draft law, the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories may not live up to these ambitions or the expectations of local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u189	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u190	With Vincent Descoeur, Jean-Marie Sermier, Jean-Yves Bony and Fabrice Brun, we have been, you will grant, constantly present in committee and sitting. We have taken our full part in the debates and the work in committee and have contributed to the improvement of the text. However, together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we regret that the developments that took place during the shuttle did not completely resolve our doubts, particularly with regard to financing and governance issues. With regard to funding, to date, and despite our many questions, Minister, we still do not know the resources allocated to the Agency. As for governance, there are still many reservations. Our debates in a new reading, after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, have certainly led to developments on this last point, but it is not entirely satisfactory. As the agency's role was to support communities and territories in carrying out their projects, it was imperative that local elected representatives be represented within the institution. That is why, together with my colleagues in the Republican Group, we fought, but to no avail, to obtain equal representation on the board of directors, on the one hand, of the representatives of the State and the staff of the agency, on the other hand, of the local elected representatives and of the national elected representatives. Minister, we can only regret that our debates have not allowed for a greater place for local elected officials in the governance of the Agency. The latter is intended for the territories and local elected representatives: it would have been normal for them to occupy half of the seats on the board of directors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u191	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u192	That's perfectly normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u193	By trusting local elected officials – who would have been present on par with state representatives on the board of directors – you would have sent a strong signal to the fragile territories. In fact, we are witnessing a recentralization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u194	Yes! They don't like local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u195	We are totally opposed to it, and you will agree that we have been constant in this area over the entire duration of the work. For our part, we believe that local elected representatives must be trusted. By intervening in this direction, we have finally obtained an additional seat for representatives of the local authorities, ensuring that the seat reserved for the Caisse des dépôts et consignations is counted among those of the representatives of the State. However, this remains insufficient. On the other hand, the departmental role of the Territorial Cohesion Committee is not yet fully clear. However, we trust you, Minister, as you made a commitment that the prefects would receive clear instructions on the composition of these committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u196	I said it before!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u197	We have one last concern – we have at least had the merit of mentioning this subject that everyone here is aware of, starting with you, Madam Minister, who, like me, was vice-president of a large association of elected officials: the appointments in the college of elected officials may lead to the disappearance of the representation of certain territories in future governance. I am thinking in particular of the mountains, the coastline and the border areas. However, rural mountain areas, coastal areas or border areas are the ones most in need of the future national cohesion agency of the territories. Finally, I would like to point out that a compromise has been reached on the possibility for community representatives to ask for a second discussion if an item on the board's agenda is not appropriate for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u198	Excellent layout!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u199	I still do not understand why this provision was not adopted by the Joint Joint Committee. That would have saved us that definitive reading. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Ms Yolaine de Courson and Ms Barbara Pompili also applaud]] For all these reasons, in the interests of the general interest, as well as in the interests of the territories – which need this new agency – the Members of the Republican Group will stick to a benevolent abstention on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u200	[[Smile]] This is revolutionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u201	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u202	We are coming to the end of a long process of reflection and consultation that began two years ago in the Senate at the first national conference of territories, around the Prime Minister, the Government, parliamentarians and representatives of local and regional authorities. The main objective of this conference was to build a pact of trust between local authorities and the State, on the basis of a flexible and intelligent organisation. [[Smile]] The fight against territorial, economic and social divides was an important objective, as they have worsened in recent decades, especially between rural areas and – I would add to my colleagues' satisfaction – in the mountains and the others, thus widening the gap between rural and urban areas. That is why several texts we are currently examining are fully consistent with the objective of the National Conference of Territories. I am thinking in particular of the mobility policy bill, says LOM, which, I hope, will lead to an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee tomorrow and which aims, in particular, to develop daily transport in order to enable French people in areas where the supply of transport has failed to return to physical mobility without which there is no social mobility. I am also thinking of the texts relating to the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, which will work in direct contact with the regions and the communities, according to an ascending logic, so that they are associated with any decision that concerns them and that their sense of abandonment disappears. I think it is useful to recall that the creation of the ANC is the result of a campaign commitment by the future President of the Republic, as well as an urgent request by the President of the Association of Mayors of France. An agreement in the Joint Joint Committee would have allowed for the rapid enactment of the bill, which could therefore have been implemented immediately. Since the aim of the text was to promote the development of the territories on the basis of local realities and giving priority to the most fragile, rapid implementation would indeed have been desirable. However, the new reading would have reassured those expressing concerns about the decision-making power of elected officials on the board of directors. Now, in the event that a deliberation does not win a majority of the votes of the representatives of the communities and their groups, the chairman of the board of directors...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u203	Who will be elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u204	... may include in the agenda of the next Council a new discussion on the same subject matter. This will lead to the development of a new proposal by the State, which will allow for further exchanges. This mechanism is an acceptable compromise solution – even if I consider, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, that local elected representatives must be trusted to find solutions themselves, and that they should be given the ability to remedy blockages. The elected representatives are able to agree between themselves and with the representatives of the State on projects. In any case, that is what the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has been keen to defend throughout our discussions. We did not want to define in Paris the projects and fields of action of local authorities. We wanted to give them the opportunity to appropriate the Agency in their own way and according to their needs. You are not without knowing, ladies and gentlemen – and I am also speaking to the elected representatives of the mountains (Sourries) – the extreme diversity of our territories, whose realities are contrasting and for which solutions vary. My political group has made a great deal of efforts, at first reading, to ensure that the proposed law establishing the ANCT constitutes a real effort to deconcentrate the services of the State. Despite the many clarifications added in the text, we consider the ANC to be a facilitator in the service of the territories, adapted to local realities, in a deeply decentralizing spirit. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of the bill. Proximity, accompaniment and simplification: this is precisely what the French and local elected representatives called for during the great debate. They told the President of the Republic; They told us in the riding. We heard them. I am thinking of the action of Mrs Jacqueline Gourault, Minister for Cohesion of the Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, the action plan at the heart of the city, third places or France service houses. I am also thinking of future legislation, such as the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, which will be presented by Mr Sébastien Lecornu, Minister responsible for local authorities. This text will support the commitment and strengthen the role of the mayor and the commune in intercommunality, which will promote the strengthening of local freedoms. In 2020, there will also be a new stage of decentralization and differentiation, and, as of the next finance bill, a reform of local taxation. In referring to these essential sites for our territories, their elected representatives and citizens, I wish that we other parliamentarians will, when the time comes, be able to live up to the situation. Some will say that, on the proposal for a law establishing the ANCT, the Parliament has parliament and then has disposed. Of course, but when I see how long it will have taken to adopt this text, I can only worry about the forthcoming debates on the above-mentioned texts, which will be equally, if not more important. We, the legislators of both chambers, will have to exercise responsibility to live up to the debate and expectations. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] It is on these words that I will conclude my umpteenth – but last – passage to the rostrum on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u205	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u206	On 20 June, the Senate unanimously adopted, on a new reading, the bill establishing a national agency for territorial cohesion. However, as the text has been amended, it is the text that we adopted again in the National Assembly on 21 May, which is again submitted to us for final reading. You will certainly understand that I am more constant than original and that this speech is somewhat like the one given in this same rostrum on the same text last May. To begin — or rather to start again — allow me, minister, to express a regret. Throughout the discussion of this text, we have asked you to provide us with precise information on the new resources and budgetary appropriations that will be mobilised for the benefit of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. Most of our legitimate requests have been referred to the next finance bill. This could be agreed in February or May, but we cannot imagine that at this stage you do not have a more accurate assessment of the credits that will be granted to your department. The month of June, which is already far behind us, is usually that of final arbitrations, "ceiling letters" and distribution conferences. We are now a few weeks away from the transmission of the finance bill to the Council of State, and you still do not seem to know how this new tool will be available. Do not take my insistence for obstinacy; See more consistency in it. With this in mind, I would like to reiterate our request: can you, Madam Minister, tell us what new resources and appropriations will be mobilised in the context of the Finance Bill for 2020 for the benefit of the ANC, in comparison with existing resources, at constant scope? If, of course, these means were to be identical or even decreasing, we could only regret that this new agency, which has such great ambitions, is, in reality, merely an administrative reorganization. You would understand perfectly, I imagine, that if the agency did not fulfil its role in keeping with the stated ambition, it would not be able to benefit from our support. While we obviously agree with the objectives of simplification, which are expected of all – citizens, communities, elected – it seems to us that the creation of an additional structure does not help simplify the administrative landscape. We have the weakness to believe that a reorganization of the Office of the Commissioner General for Territorial Equality would have sufficed. As for the substance, we regret that we were not listened to about the disagreement we had with the rapporteur, a disagreement which was not only semantic, on the one hand, about priority areas and on the other, about innovative projects. The House did, however, accept our arguments at first reading, but the rapporteur returned to this point when the text was discussed in committee again. We also regret that our colleague Christine Pires Beaune's proposal to report communities not benefiting from any of the national support schemes of the State or its operators has not been accepted. As you said, Madam Minister, the Agency must act in complementarity with other actors. It will therefore have to do so all the more actively since the territories will not have any in-house equipment or engineering. These are those territories, those most in need of the Agency, which, paradoxically, are furthest from it. This is the absence of the principle of complementarity: it assumes that the project leader already has some means, which unfortunately is not always the case. Finally, we do not understand that our amendment to align the ANC and its missions with Bill LOM was rejected, even though the ANC is mentioned in the bill's explanatory memorandum and Ms.Élisabeth Borne, Minister of Transport, referred to it several times during the course of the debate. We have, however, been listened to – and we welcome it – about the need to clarify the scope of the Agency's missions with regard to the revitalization of city centres and town centres, particularly with regard to commercial and craft revitalization. However, and that will not surprise you, I would have hoped that the bill would take more account of the specificities of mountain areas and that there would be a better link with the law on the modernization, development and protection of mountain areas that we voted for in 2016. However, you have provided us with some reassurances during the debate, particularly with regard to the fate of the massif committees. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] As you will have understood, the deputies of the Socialist and related groups will not oppose the creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. They obviously share the conviction that there is a need to simplify and coordinate the services and operators of the State in the territories. However, insufficient commitments to the Agency's financial resources will lead us to abstain from voting on the bill. We will not fail, at the time of the introduction of the finance bill for 2020, to demand that the means be commensurate with the ambitions set out in this text and, above all, with the needs of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u207	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u208	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal for a law establishing the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories in the text adopted by the National Assembly on a new reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u209	[[Smile]] Ah! He's going to disrupt the process!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u210	This amendment, which had been adopted by the Senate, is intended to clarify a point that can only appear important when one knows the budgetary difficulties of the State and the increasing constraints it imposes on communities, namely that the benefits provided by the National Territorial Cohesion Agency will always be free for the communities and groups of communities that would use them. That would seem quite normal to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u211	The rapporteur, Mrs Yolaine de Courson, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u212	The Minister will certainly confirm that the ANC's Territorial Delegated Prefects will not, of course, charge the project proponents for their advice. The ANCT will therefore not seek compensation for its intervention, nor does the CGET currently do. On the other hand, any remuneration cannot be ruled out by law, since the paid operations of EPARECA will remain non-free. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u214	Same opinion. I can only repeat what I have said on several occasions: free action by the Agency will be a reality, I assure you. If I am against including it in the law, it is, as the rapporteur has just pointed out, that EPARECA can carry out special operations for a fee. It is clear, however, that this is free of charge, and I would like to reiterate publicly, Mr President, the assurances I have already given on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u215	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u216	The rapporteur has managed with a formidable lapalissade: paid operations are not free of charge... We're very happy to hear that! That is precisely the reason for my amendment. If I could, to some extent, have confidence in you, Madam Minister, you are not – like all of us – unfortunately not eternal. And if certain interventions, such as those you mentioned, were to derogate from the principle of freedom, you could quite clearly state that by a sub-amendment. However, if you want to guarantee all of our communities that the use of this agency's services will, no matter what, always free, simply write it down in the law and they will be able to have full confidence in what our assembly has designed and adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u217	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u218	Mr Di Filippo, he's not deafer than the one who doesn't want to hear. There will be no change in relation to the current situation, except for the consolidation of services to help local and regional authorities more effectively, following a bottom-up logic. As a result, already paid services will remain so. If you can't understand it, I don't know what to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u219	We have the right to disagree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u220	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u221	This is an amendment that I think is important given the life of our territories and their communities today. I usually say that in some of them, especially peripheral territories like the one where I have the chance to live, the first indicator of vitality, is the dynamism and solidity of the associative fabric. I therefore propose to extend the powers of the future national agency for the cohesion of the territories by enabling it to assist and support projects with a sports, cultural or associative dimension, knowing that the associations play an essential role in the various fields of popular culture. They take care of our youth by participating in their education; they animate our territories; They maintain the social link, especially in rural areas. Since we are talking about the cohesion of the territories, showing a desire to combat the territorial divide, it is important to foresee that the future agency will also be able to work in these areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u223	Mr Di Filippo, your amendment is satisfied with the current wording. I therefore request that it be withdrawn; Otherwise, the committee's opinion would be unfavourable, in line with those I have given on all the amendments aimed at extending the ANCT's list of tasks – we have discussed this at length in this House. This list is not exhaustive; In fact, it would be impossible for him to be. It is therefore composed of only examples. Nothing will prevent the Agency from supporting projects in the field of culture or sport. It is not necessary to include it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u225	The amendment is satisfied with Article 2. Request for withdrawal; Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u226	Mr Di Filippo, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u227	In reading this article, I do not think that my amendment is fully satisfied. At some point, what has not been specifically mentioned in the text is likely to go into the trap. We know very well how this happens in a context of forced means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u228	Trust the local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u229	You're asking me to trust, my dear colleague, but since I've been sitting here, I've seen the parliamentary reserve disappear, just like the National Centre for Sport Development, and the VAT Compensation Fund reduce to derisory amounts...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u230	And the Intervention Fund for the Protection of Crafts and Dry Trade!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u231	That's right, Mr. Brun. [[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] I wish I could trust you. Unfortunately, the facts are hard on you, and your majority, like the Government, have not helped associations and communities enough so far, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u232	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u233	I indicated in the general discussion that the Libertés et territoires Group had made several comments on the governance of the ANCT Board of Directors. We believe that the weight of local elected officials should be strengthened. That is the meaning of this amendment, which aims to give the elected representatives of the territories a greater representation by allowing them to have a blocking minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u235	Madam Member, in response to a pressing request from the Senate, I myself introduced the mechanism for the new deliberation that the minister recalled earlier. It reinforces the already very important place foreseen for representatives of local authorities and their groups on the board of directors. However, this mechanism can only be activated once, as it is not a veto that could indefinitely block the functioning of the Governing Council. However, this amendment would make this possible. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u237	Unfavorable opinion. I would point out that, even if the State wished to retain the majority, the board of directors would be chaired by an elected representative, which should be emphasized because no one mentioned it. The place of elected representatives will be very important. And I confirm to Martial Saddier that I will take into account all that I have committed myself to during the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u238	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1 and 9. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u239	At the end of the parliamentary shuttle, I want to share with you a frustration: throughout the examination of the text, there was a lot of talk about piping, the functioning and organisation of the Agency, in a somewhat techno style, and finally little talk about the substance, which concerns us all, namely the territorial divides. The number one fracture, however, is that of the medical presence, which was at the heart of the results of the Grand National Debate, just as it was at the heart of the debates of the general assembly of rural mayors of the Ardèche in Ruoms last Friday, in the presence of the President of the Senate. When you go to the valleys of Valgorge, Burzet or the mountain ardéchoise,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u240	What about the burrows?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u241	...we're only talking about the medical fracture: how to treat yourself? How can a doctor, whether a general practitioner or a specialist, be found nearby and within a reasonable time? Therefore, Minister, in a national context of tense medical demography, this amendment tends to involve the regional health agencies more closely in the work of the ANCT. We ask through him a question whose scope is far more global: how long can our health care system hold without forcing or regulating the installation of doctors in underserved areas? This obviously concerns rural areas, but not only, since a number of neighbourhoods, peripheral areas and even cities are affected by this medical divide. I am one of the Members, and I am pleased that there are more and more of them who think that incentive policy has lived. As Minister of Territorial Cohesion, you must have an opinion on this issue. We would like to hear from you on this crucial issue of medical presence and improvement of community care. At the end of the discussion of this text, we would all appreciate an exchange with us on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u242	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u243	These two amendments have two parts. The first deals with the participation of the departmental delegate of the Regional Health Agency – ARS – in the local committee on territorial cohesion, taking into account the concerns constantly expressed during the latter less about medical desertification. The second part, introduced in the Senate at first reading, aims to provide that, as part of the improvement of the governance of the Agency, the local committee is jointly chaired by the State representative in the department and by an elected representative. Indeed, as I said earlier, there is a need to better involve elected representatives in the governance of the Agency so that local specificities are better taken into account. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u244	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u245	Unfavorable opinion: we have chosen not to include in the law a detailed and therefore rigid composition of the local committee on territorial cohesion. I leave it to the minister to reiterate her commitments to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u247	Before repeating what I have already confirmed several times, I would like to point out that the Government is against these amendments, which are intended to define the members of the local committee on territorial cohesion, because this would have the effect of rigidifying the functioning of the committee. Mr. Brun, you who trust local elected officials...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u248	You too, I hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u249	... should agree that the composition and rules of operation of this committee, including the frequency of its meetings, should be allowed to be established on the ground. It is up to local actors, with the prefect of course, to decide. It is for this reason that I made a commitment to the national representation to ask that its organization be as flexible as possible, and I will send the Prefects a circular asking them...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u250	[[Smile]] Doing flexibility exercises?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u251	... to consult the elected representatives of the department in order to define, in conjunction with them, the most suitable method at the local level. When you are attached to the territories, you know that they are very different from each other – for example the Ardèche and the Nord or the Pas-de-Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u252	And there are differences within the same department!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u253	I have also committed myself to asking the Prefects that the State departments concerned, such as the departmental directorates of the territories, the regional directorates of the environment, the planning and housing, the architects of the French buildings or the water agencies, but also the regional health agencies, be present at the meetings of the Committee. However, let's be pragmatic: let's make them come on the day when the current theme or project concerns them. Let us not, for example, systematically call the water agency. Let us be pragmatic, let us act in a flexible manner, let us stop including in the law provisions that make things rigid.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u254	Flexibility, agility: these are the slogans!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u255	I am not going to detail health policy in France, because it is not the heart of my profession – even though I share your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u256	It's the heart of the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u257	Minister is not a trade!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u258	I would point out that the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system has provided for measures to promote the development of medicine in rural areas, in particular general medicine, but it is well known that the situation will not be solved with a magic wand and that the shortage of doctors comes from far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u259	Oh, yes! Thirty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u260	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u261	Minister, I do not see how better to involve the SRAs in the operation of the National Territorial Cohesion Agency would make it more effective. We all know that, in the departments, the prefects have control over all the regal areas of the State, except one: health. That is why we believe it is important to associate the SRA in a consubstantial way with its functioning. In fact, unlike you, Madam Minister, I do not think that this is an issue that arises on an ad hoc basis, depending on the topics discussed at the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u262	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u263	For my part, I am convinced that the first of the territorial fractures relates to medical presence and that a cross-cutting approach must prevail in all the work of the ANCT. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u264	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u265	Minister, you say that you are for the most flexible organization possible. On this point, I follow you. That being said, you know very well that the SRA is a state in the state and a state next to the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u266	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u267	The purpose of these amendments is therefore, as Mr Brun has pointed out, to make the system more effective. Indeed, medical fractures will worsen – and, as you said, the current situation comes by far, from more than thirty years – since none of the provisions of the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system, starting with the 400 doctors and 4000 medical assistants for rural areas, are funded. You know very well, minister, that it is on your department that the effects of these fractures, whether digital, telephone, public service or medical, will be concentrated. It would make sense that there was a place where all actors, elected, state and professional, could make a shared diagnosis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u269	I put to the vote the whole of the bill establishing a national agency for territorial cohesion in the text adopted by the National Assembly on a new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u270	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 111 Number of votes cast 88 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 79 Against 9
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u271	I now put to the vote the whole proposal for an organic law on the appointment of the Director-General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u272	Mrs Yolaine de Courson, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u273	I welcome this vote which will allow the creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. If this agency's roadmap is clear, the vision that must be ours for the country goes far beyond the creation of an agency, however indispensable it may be. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Indeed, we wish to reconcile the territories, to restore their confidence in them, so that they become powerful, supportive, virtuous, socially and ecologically conquering. Through this agency, we are laying the foundation for a reorganisation of public action and territorial services, which I am convinced will be just as exciting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u274	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u275	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u276	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committees on the draft law establishing the French Office for Biodiversity and Hunting, amending the missions of the hunters' federations and strengthening the environmental police (Nos. 1875, 2071) and the draft organic law amending Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution (Nos. 1876, 2069). The Conference of Presidents decided that these texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u277	Barbara Pompili, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law establishing the French Office for Biodiversity and Hunting, amending the missions of the hunters' federations and strengthening the environmental police.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u278	Today we are meeting for the reading of the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee held on Tuesday 25 June in the Senate on the bill to create the French Office for Biodiversity and Hunting, to amend the missions of the hunters' federations and to strengthen the environmental police. The initial draft law provided for the long-awaited merger of the Agence française de la biodiversité, AFB, and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage, ONCFS, by 1 January 2020. I welcome this progress, which follows the law of 8 August 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, which was at the origin of the creation, on 1 January 2017, of the AFB. The success of the Joint Joint Committee will facilitate the creation of this new public institution and give visibility to its agents by defining a clear framework and clear governance and missions, several months before the merger. I will, of course, remain vigilant as to the effectiveness of the resources allocated to them. The original bill also provided for the strengthening of the powers of environmental inspectors in the context of their duties to investigate and detect environmental offences. Finally, it provided for actions to promote biodiversity to be carried out by the hunters' federations. At first reading, the bill was considerably enriched by our assembly, both in committee and in public sittings. In particular, OFB's missions have been strengthened and its governance clarified. We have, for example, reaffirmed the territorial character of the establishment and the essential role of the regional biodiversity agencies, strengthened the role of the overseas regions and confirmed the essential tasks of the establishment, such as monitoring ecological compensation or combating biopiracy. The powers of environmental inspectors have been strengthened, inter alia, by extending their geographical scope of intervention, recasting of the regime applicable to seized objects, access to the vehicle registration register and the possibility of controlling offences related to the carrying of weapons. Their investigative powers have also been strengthened, since they will now be able to receive letters rogatory from the investigating judge. These developments will enable the agents of the future establishment to fully exercise their responsibilities, as closely as possible to the needs of the field. The Senate has enriched the text transmitted to it by the National Assembly, in particular with regard to marine protected areas, the administrative and judicial police powers of environmental inspectors, the modalities for the financial contribution of hunters to actions to promote biodiversity, safe hunting and the management of hunting plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u279	Still the problem of obstructing the right to hunt...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u280	The text adopted by the Senate, however, contained provisions that undermined the general balance of the bill and constituted what could be called red rags, in that they led to opposing the various actors involved in the protection and recovery of biodiversity rather than bringing them together around a common goal – which had been our will in the National Assembly from the beginning of the summer. We have therefore worked closely and productively with the Senate rapporteur, Mr.Jean-Claude Luche, whom I would like to acknowledge and thank. We have overcome our differences, sometimes important, in order to arrive at the balanced text that we are considering today. We have reached, with the Senate majority, a compromise text allowing for the effective protection of our biodiversity. Like any compromise, it has been the subject of concessions with a view to finding a text suitable for our two assemblies. For example, provisions creating an offence of obstruction of hunting or those recognizing traditional hunting that had been introduced by the Senate in public session were deleted. The National Assembly has also made concessions, in particular regarding the representation of the State on the OFB's board of directors. I am not concerned, however, because I know that all the actors gathered around the table will act in good intelligence to deal with the urgency of the erosion of our biodiversity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The text drawn up by the Joint Joint Committee will, I believe, bring together the actors of nature around the central objective of preserving and regaining our biodiversity. That is why I invite you to adopt it, after adopting the four purely legislative or editorial amendments that the Government has tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u281	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft organic law amending Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u282	I, in turn, wish to welcome the agreement reached between the National Assembly and the Senate on this reform, which is the result of a long consultation. The text presented to you today will allow the creation, on 1 January 2020, of the French Biodiversity Office – since this is how it was proposed to appoint the new establishment. It reflects the commitment of all the parties who have worked to bring the AFB and ONCFS closer together in order to give greater coherence to our biodiversity policy and to improve our expertise in this area – the chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, the rapporteur of the ordinary bill, recalled this perfectly in her speech. I would also like to thank Mrs.Barbara Pompili in particular for the work done with the rapporteur of the Senate, which resulted in the compromises that led to the preparation of this joint text. This shows that some issues are transpartial and that we can agree on important reforms. The Committee on Laws has always followed with interest the work of our fellow Commissioners for Sustainable Development and we have been actively involved in the Joint Joint Committee. Our substantive jurisdiction, however, was limited to the organic bill, the subject matter of which is much more limited than that of the ordinary bill. In accordance with article 13 of the Constitution, it is for the Parliament to decide whether to submit to the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees the appointment of the President of the Republic to certain public posts. The list of these jobs is annexed to the Organic Law of 23 July 2010. Any change in this area therefore leads us to decide on the need to seek Parliament's opinion on the importance of the employment concerned. In this context, the National Assembly and the Senate agreed in CMP that the tasks entrusted to the future French Biodiversity Office are important enough to justify that this procedure applies for the appointment of its Director General. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I wholeheartedly support the adoption of the two texts submitted to us this afternoon and I know, Madam Secretary of State, that you will be committed to supporting the creation of the new Office in order to make it operational as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u283	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u284	It is with great pleasure that I am here before you for this vote, six months after the start of the consideration of the bill establishing the French Office for Biodiversity and Hunting Reform. I would like to thank the members of the House of Commons and the senators who participated in this debate, which is always rich, sometimes lively, and which resulted in a concluding CMP. I would like to express special thanks to the two committee chairs, who have been particularly involved in this CMP. I welcome this constructive work, which I believe has been carried out in accordance with the text and the general interest, and which has made it possible to find a compromise on this very important reform. The bill has made significant progress. First of all, it provides for the creation of the French Biodiversity Office, which, as the rapporteur said, has long been desired. We are able to create this beautiful establishment, which will bring together 2700 agents with complementary skills in the fields of water and biodiversity, gathered in a single entity to carry out a stronger, better coordinated action and on all territories, in metropolis as well as overseas. This facility will support the Ministry, its operators and its decentralized services, in particular in the implementation of actions arising from the biodiversity plan and the Water Facilities. With this text, we strengthen the powers of environmental inspectors, who will be able, under the supervision of the public prosecutor, to conduct their investigations, from the finding of the offence to the referral of the accused to the court, without having to divest themselves to the benefit of a generalist judicial police officer, and will benefit from a strengthened framework of cooperation with the other police services. We also strengthen police measures and penalties for offences against protected species and habitats and for aggravated illegal hunting. The bill also includes reform for a more sustainable hunt. The subject of hunting safety is important to me, as you know. If, thanks to collective efforts, the trend for several years has been downwards in accidents, we are at the same time witnessing an increase in incidents that prompts us to be vigilant. The text thus provides for uniform minimum safety obligations at national level, a system for holding and suspending hunting permits in the event of serious breaches of a safety rule, and a training obligation for escorts of young hunters. The bill also deals with a sensitive subject, in accordance with the recommendations of the mission led by MP Alain Perea and Senator Jean-Noël Cardoux regarding control of game damage. It thus includes advances in the prohibition of feeding wild boar or restrictions on release into pens, which will help to combat the engulfment observed in Sologne. In addition, it provides financial incentives for hunters to better regulate big game, primarily protecting hunting areas where the damage is greatest. The text also addresses adaptive management of species, which aims to adjust sampling regularly according to the conservation status of populations. For all the species concerned, the declaration of the samples taken by each hunter to the hunters' federations and the French Biodiversity Office will be mandatory. Finally, the bill introduces an eco-contribution of hunters to biodiversity, so that actions can be taken as close to the ground as possible. Other topics are dealt with, such as the definition of wetlands. Following the report by Frédérique Tuffnell and Jérôme Bignon, we have reintroduced into the text an amendment to this definition, in order to remove the ambiguities arising from the jurisprudence and to better preserve the emblematic fragile areas. After careful rereading, four points of legislation were identified, on which the Government tabled four amendments of pure coordination. At this point, I wish to inform you of our full mobilization for the prompt implementation of the law, after its rapid adoption by the National Assembly and then by the Senate. We will create the French Biodiversity Office on 1 January 2020 and will work towards the rapid release of the various implementing texts. Three reports were requested by parliamentarians. One of these concerns the financing of water and biodiversity policy; The other two relate to human resources management, including the requalification of officers and access to the public service in the new institution. This is a very important point, on which I will be extremely vigilant. Finally, we are aware that further work needs to be done, particularly on the more comprehensive issue of the crime of obstruction. This work is likely to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u285	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u286	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to thank you again for your attention in this regard. The fight against the decline of biodiversity has been identified as such an important cause as the fight against global warming, and the latest IPBES report, the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services, commits us to act. The creation of this operator gives us the means to move forward. It's up to us to figure it out. The Government will be fully present.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u287	In the joint general debate, Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u288	A year ago, the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, presented jointly with the Prime Minister his biodiversity plan, which, I recall, was to mark the start of an unprecedented mobilization of the Government and actors at all levels to combat the decline of our ecosystems. A year later, it should be noted that the Government and environmental protection associations do not take the same stock of its implementation. While the Ministry is keen to have committed 95% of the planned actions, the associations, for their part, are much more reserved and feel that 82% of the measures taken are unsatisfactory. There appear to be many sources of dissatisfaction. They relate in particular to the lack of ambition in protecting vulnerable species or in combating soil artificialisation. I have mentioned this last issue in the discussion on another text discussed this afternoon. The associations also point to the decline in environmental standards and a lack of resources – which, it is true, is a red thread. According to the associations, the Government is neither fast enough nor far enough. However, despite the commitments made under the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and the implementation by the European Union of a biodiversity strategy, we are far from halting the loss of biodiversity and continue to push some ecosystems to the brink of collapse. Will the creation of the French Biodiversity Office in 2020 change the situation by enabling our country to develop an effective tool? You stressed, Madam Secretary of State, that the objective was basically to create the OFB, to acquire the equivalent of the ADEME – the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – and to support the actors in the conduct of biodiversity recovery actions and to network all the actors, the state in mind, which is very important to us. We are of course in favour of this, as well as of strengthening the legal powers of the administrative and judicial police, which we also consider decisive. We are also pleased that the work in the CMP has allowed us to revisit some of the Senate's amendments, which we felt were unbalanced and agitating several red rags – to use the phrase used by Ms.Pompili. It seemed incongruous that these amendments should weigh in the debate, and the compromise we found preserved the main objective of the text, namely the pooling of the resources of the current AFB and ONCFS. The Communist deputies had defended the opportunity of this rapprochement during the discussions on the 2016 law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. We can therefore only subscribe to it: the tasks entrusted to the Office are clear and precise, and having a single player is a guarantee of operational efficiency. Nevertheless, several questions remain. The most serious is the meaning and the real operational nature of this dedicated agency, while so many public policies contradict its objectives. Thus, no one can deny that the transformation of our agricultural model is a fundamental issue for the recovery of biodiversity. Our family agriculture defends landscapes, resources and wildlife, but this has not prevented the executive from supporting free trade treaties that weaken our farmers and promote environmental dumping. Similarly, I could mention the adoption of measures to relax the coastal law, the reduction of the scope of the Environmental Authority's powers, or the relaxation of environmental standards under the ELAN law – the evolution of housing, development and digital technology. All these measures highlight a number of contradictions that cross the majority. Nevertheless, the GDR Group will abstain from this text. I leave it to you to judge the quality of this abstention. [[Applause on the benches of the Commission and the FI Group]] To conclude in ten seconds, I invite you to inquire about the curious rare bebeast that seems to have been discovered on the route of the bypass of Rouen: after the Violette de Rouen has already led the authorities to divert this road for the first time to make it take another way, this rodent is now opposed to this very unpleasant road bypass.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u289	It's a plot of nature...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u290	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u291	For more than a year now, we have begun work and reflection on this bill. We both conducted numerous hearings and went to the field, listening to the various actors. We have held many committee meetings – long, interesting, constructive...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u292	Diurnes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u293	Diurnes and nocturnal, like wildlife! We debated at length at first reading. At the time of the final vote, what should be added to what has already been said in previous speeches? I would like to return to six points. The first concerns the urgency to act on biodiversity issues. As the summer is just beginning, we are emerging from a period of very strong weather incidents. In particular, we experienced a temperature above 37 degrees in the Gard for ten consecutive days, which had never been observed. We have been through a period of terrible storms and we are experiencing unprecedented global warming in the Mediterranean area. As a result, climate issues and their impact on biodiversity are major. It was therefore time to act, and that is what we are doing by creating the French Biodiversity Office. Through this, as with others, we give ourselves the means to become truly involved in the events that we are experiencing. Secondly, I recall that we were told very difficult exchanges: I was told that we could never agree with hunters and ecologists, actors on the ground and political decision-makers. However, we have managed to draft a bill that already infuses the territories. The general assemblies of the various federations are held and the returns are positive. Some had predicted that the Senate would completely change the text and that we would never find an agreement. Yet, thanks to the work of the rapporteurs, the National Assembly and the Senate, we have resulted in a concluding CMP. We have managed to unite our positions, by virtue of the famous "at the same time" that some people like to mock. This text shows that, on a major subject, whenever you want, you are able to find common ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u294	Except for the offence of obstruction!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u295	The national permit that has just been created will provide French hunting with a strong national federation, through which a real balance can be established between the departmental, regional and national federations. Since the introduction of this system on June 1, 2019, 60% of the permits issued were national. This proportion is likely to decrease slightly, as hunters applying for a departmental permit do so at the end of the year. However, as we are about to vote on this text one last time, we can already take advantage of a fact: the bet of introducing a national permit, the basis of a strong national federation, is successful! The penultimate point concerns the offence of obstruction that the Senate added. In my view, this crime should not be dealt with solely in this text, under the sole prism of hunting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u296	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u297	Yes, the stakes are important. Yes, hunters regularly face barriers. But the problem is far beyond hunters: it has almost become a social problem, which it would be reducing to address only through a text on OFB and hunting; It would be taking it from a wrong angle. The CMP decided to continue its work on this subject, as the Secretary of State recalled. Finally, a real financial question arises, which we will have to deal with at the time of the review of the PLF, and, in CMP, we have committed ourselves to working on it again – it remains to be seen whether we will succeed or not. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ultimately, in consideration of these six points, the text is already a success. In a few months, we succeeded where others had failed a few years earlier. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u298	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u299	We are coming to the conclusion of the bill to create the French Office for Biodiversity – I would have liked to say that we are coming to the conclusion of the bill to create the French Office for Biodiversity and Hunting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u300	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u301	In short, we share the overall objective of the Office: the preservation of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. We are well aware of the pressures that are mounting on our natural environments, especially as a result of pollution and climate change. In this regard, France has a special responsibility in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u302	A historical responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u303	Indeed, with its ultramarine territories and 11 million square kilometres of ocean, it is home to 10% of the world's biodiversity. In view of these issues, the bill remains modest. It consists mainly of the merger of the Agence française pour la biodiversité and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage, certainly to gain readability and bring together expertise. The text changed significantly during his time in the Senate. It's a pretty positive signal. Despite these advances, it does not seem to us to be completely satisfactory. In this regard, I will address five points. My first point relates to the financing of the future office. We will discuss this again when we look at the finance bill, but there would be a shortfall of EUR 31 million to close the budget. The water agencies – dear to Martial Saddier, chairman of the Rhône-Mediterranean Basin Committee – have already been heavily punctured in recent years; going beyond that would jeopardize their actions to combat pollution, preserve water resources and maintain environments. My second point concerns the mission of communicating and raising awareness among the general public entrusted to the new Office. Although, on the merits, we are all of course in favour of ecology, we can have different approaches and different points of view. It is therefore essential for the Office to ensure the free expression of the diversity of opinions. Similarly, in its mission to support the implementation of European directives, we stress the need to avoid overtransposition. The Republican Group has always warned against this unfortunate drift in discussions on access to genetic resources, during the discussion of the bill for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. These discussions had been animated, and the chairman of the commission can testify to this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u304	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u305	Overtransposition has nothing to do with the environment. My third point concerns the strengthening of the power of the environmental police. Inspectors are not in competition with mayors and local actors. On the contrary, they play a role of counselling and pedagogy. It should be recalled that an OFB agent is also an adviser, particularly to the mayors. My fourth point concerns hunters, who know the land, wildlife and forests better than anyone else. Obliging the departmental federations to devote at least 5 euros per member to actions in favour of biodiversity is not only to exercise interference, but it is above all to ignore the many actions taken by hunters to regulate species, prevent damage to game and restore sensitive habitats! In many departmental federations, hunters have put in place a number of physical actions that allow to regain areas of biodiversity. Finally – this will be my fifth point – we regret that the offence of obstruction is ultimately not included in the bill. The senators had introduced it, but the CMP finally did not retain it. Hunters make significant efforts to ensure the safety, well-being of their fellow citizens and the readability of their actions. They strive to agree with the various sectors of associative life. We can be hunters and accept, with all benevolence, all those who come into the forest. The organization established by the hunters ensures great security. But others, those we might call "anti-hunting," must also respect the right of hunters to engage in their activity. Too often, they fall into aggressiveness and take reckless risks to assert their claims. Without opposing this bill, whose noble objectives we share, and without ignoring the progress allowed by the parliamentary shuttle, the Republicans Group regrets that this text adopts a certain bias,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u306	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u307	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...that he does not fully trust the actors on the ground and that he does not see that the best friends of nature are still those who live it on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u308	Mrs Lasserre-David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u309	Three years after the adoption of the law for the recovery of biodiversity, which aimed to merge four public institutions in order to protect and value our natural wealth, we are here to vote for the ultimate unification between two operators with complementary activities, which could not be carried out in 2016. At the time of the review of the 2016 bill, parliamentarians from all sides had called for a merger between the Agence française pour la biodiversité, which has the task of improving knowledge, protecting, managing and raising awareness of terrestrial, aquatic and marine biodiversity, and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage (Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage), whose mission is to incarnate the police of the environment and hunting, to organize studies and research on wildlife and its habitats, and to ensure the organization of the examination of the hunting permit. The articulation of these two key bodies for the recovery and preservation of biodiversity could not be achieved without the agreement of the hunters, who were involved in the management of wildlife. We are meeting this afternoon to finally complete this work that began three years ago. This is an important text because we have seen for several years the accelerated erosion of our biodiversity due to human activities. It is our responsibility to protect natural balances. The French Office for Biodiversity will thus aim to improve the effectiveness of environmental policies, in particular in the areas of water and biodiversity, and to strengthen the environmental police in our territories. We can therefore only welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee on this merger bill. The offence of obstruction, which was not part of the original bill, was the main blocking point. In this regard, the Government's commitment seems to us strong enough. There may be reprehensible situations in which people attack the integrity of hunters and their animals. These facts must be prosecuted if there is physical violence or even threats. However, this bill, on the merger of two establishments, does not appear to be the most appropriate legislative vehicle to achieve this objective. The upcoming inclusion on the Orders of the Day of Senator Jean-Noël Cardoux's bill will allow us to discuss more comprehensively the increase in violence against hunters, but also other categories of people – I am thinking in particular of farmers. Parliamentarians gathered in the CMP decided to retain numerous additions of MPs and senators concerning the governance of the future establishment, marine protected areas and the administrative and judicial police powers of inspectors. The draft law also incorporates a funding scheme for biodiversity-related actions, using the principle of a contribution from the departmental federations to a fund managed by the National Federation of Hunters, the use of which will be determined by an agreement concluded with the OFB. The text maintains the State's commitment to support the efforts of hunter federations to the tune of 10 euros per hunting permit validated in the year, explicitly aiming at the implementation of biodiversity protection or recovery actions. I also welcome the continuation of the provisions adopted by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. This applies to the extension of the expertise of the future operator to the assessment of the state of wildlife. There is also an opportunity for regions to establish regional biodiversity offices in conjunction with the new national public institution responsible for biodiversity, which will ensure the stability of existing structures. It will also provide scientific advice and technical support for the development, implementation and evaluation of policies carried out by the State, local and regional authorities and their groups. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I affirm the support of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement for this text, which calls for the desirable modernisation of the French institutional framework for the protection of natural areas and wildlife. Like ADEME in the field of energy and ecological transition, the French Biodiversity Office will become the spearhead of the national strategy for biodiversity and the protection of our wildlife.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u310	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u311	This text, in line with the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes of August 8, 2016, achieves a reasonable compromise. I welcome the work of all those who made it possible, on all benches, in particular that of the rapporteur, Barbara Pompili. What matters to us is that this text avoids a further break between hunters and the rest of society, including associations dedicated to the protection of the environment and biodiversity. We must be able to bring together all these actors, beyond the diversity of their commitments, their horizons, their paths, their vision of the future, around a major objective: to protect and restore biodiversity. We have repeated this many times during our discussions: France bears a special responsibility because it hosts almost 10% of the world's biodiversity, of which more than 80% is in the ultramarine territories. Let us give precise figures: France is responsible for 3,450 plant species and 380 animals, unique in the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u312	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u313	That is why we supported the proposal to strengthen ultramarine representation on the board of directors of the future Office. As the text is being examined, we have made progress on this, and I give you my credit. Beyond the representation of the ultramarine territories, the question arises of means, in particular of human means, raised by others before me. The agents say that they are willing to carry out this mission, that they assume with happiness and passion, provided they are sufficiently numerous. I call the Government's attention: give them the means to work well; the merger between the two institutions must not lead to a reduction in the number of staff, I stress this point. As for the financial resources, we know that the President of the Republic has committed, following a compromise, to lower the price of the hunting permit and to allocate EUR 15 million to a fund to be managed by the National Federation of Hunters. It would therefore be necessary to find fresh money to finance the Agency's new missions. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond these very important points that call for vigilance, we hope that the Agency will be able to fully play its role of supporting, expertise and, beyond that, mobilizing French society as a whole in the face of what is called the "sixth extinction". We must do everything we can to put an end to this massive extinction of species which is accelerating inexorably; We have no choice but to meet this extremely difficult challenge together. That is why we need an effective tool, with sufficient human and financial resources, to save biodiversity. It is in any case an act of confidence and faith in the future that I want to pose this afternoon. We will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u314	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u315	First of all, I would like to congratulate all of our parliamentary colleagues on having reached a consensus text, following a CMP in which I was able to participate. The discussions, on complex subjects, were sometimes tense, but the divisions could be overcome in order to arrive at a consensus text, the fruit of each other's efforts. This text will enable two institutions to be merged tomorrow, and it also serves as a reminder of their essential tasks: the new Office will have to be, above all, at the service of the territories, in support of the decision-makers. This agency will make it possible to better coordinate public policies in the field of biodiversity, in a logic of network core dynamics. I would like to share with you my experience, for two years, as a member of the Board of Directors of the AFB, in the development that I have attended. The desire to serve decision-makers on a daily basis, and not to decide in their place, is at the heart of this agency. In this sense, the change in the composition of the Board of Directors has been a real step forward as it will better meet the needs of water agencies, basin committees, and strengthen its presence with them. Finally, we are going to innovate, and perhaps this agency will be pilot for codecision or co-management. I believe, if I may say so, in the future of this board of directors, where the state will no longer be the majority but will decide with the communities, parliamentarians, partners, all the actors of civil society. Of course, the economic world will not be excluded. Some fears were raised two weeks ago, but this board of directors, contrary to what may have been put forward, will be in line with the model that we want, since it will allow all actors to take on co-responsibility as a whole. Codecision obviously implies co-responsibility. The challenge of biodiversity is cross-cutting and must concern everyone; It must be integrated into all our public policies. Let me have an apartee, Madam Secretary of State. It seems to me essential to carry out more coherent public policies, as has already been said. When we meet in this Chamber to discuss texts on sustainable development, we all feel concerned and we are already convinced of the merits of our approach. Our job is to persuade the majority of our colleagues who sit on the national defence, economic or foreign affairs committees to integrate sustainable development into the texts before them. These indicators should guide the work of Members in all committees. Indeed, if a subject is cross-cutting, major and urgent, it is that one. Take the example of the board of directors of the future OFB: we must succeed in imposing this transversality at the highest level of decision-making. The Trans-Partisan Collective Accelerons, which we have created here, embodies this will, and other initiatives are led by study groups or friendship groups. I would like to take this text to tell you that, beyond the adoption of this amendment, we will have to accompany these public policies on a daily basis in each of our committees. I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for supporting the proposal to reintegrate the ultramarines and strengthen their place. At the last Overseas Steering Committee, it was asked to maintain an official space for dialogue at the heart of the OFB. The prefigurator was very sensitive to this approach, which he confirmed. I would like you to support this request as well. Finally, I thank you for strengthening the consideration of maritime issues by paying attention to the protection of coral ecosystems. France is not only continental: it is global and maritime; We are the world's second largest maritime domain, and the richness of marine biodiversity must be protected in the same way as the richness of terrestrial biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u316	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u317	I'll have one last word about hunting. We ask you to review the issue of hunting permits in Guyana in order to reach a consensus between the territory and local actors. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u318	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u319	France bears a special responsibility for the protection of biodiversity. We host, repeat, almost 10% of the world's biodiversity, thanks in particular to our maritime facade and our ultramarine territories. However, we are among the ten countries with the largest number of endangered species, mainly because of pressures from human activities. While several researchers are alerting us to the imminent sixth mass extinction, it is more than urgent to mobilize and organize the action of all the living forces: state, communities, associative world and citizens. The protection of biodiversity cannot be the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Ecological Transition. This is the meaning of the French Biodiversity Office. Its governance will include representatives of environmental protection associations, parliamentarians, members of professional agricultural and forestry organisations, and representatives of cynegetic bodies and recreational fisheries bodies. The diversity of the actors represented will contribute to an overall balance. We regret, however, that this governance, anchored in the territories and in civil society, is tarnished by the establishment of a Government Commissioner with a veto power. Far from the philosophy of the text, this measure contributes to an inappropriate recentralisation. With regard to governance, we welcome the retention in the final text of the advance allowed at first reading, assigning to the president of the executive council of Corsica the responsibility of establishing the list of prohibitions of non-indigenous and uncultivated specimens on the island. Since this problem is specific, it is normal for decisions to be taken by the territorial authorities, as close to the ground as possible. We regret, however, that the text did not allow the co-management of marine parks between the OFB and the Corsican executive. However, when we take a decision on the whole text, we want to stress the calm nature of the debates on a subject which, a few years ago, would have given rise to a real arm of arms. This is proof that attitudes are changing and that the various actors recognise themselves as stakeholders in the protection and enhancement of biodiversity. Members of the Liberties and Territories Group supported the creation of a single office. Nevertheless, at first reading, we alerted you to several provisions. The first concerned the great balances between the different actors, particularly those of hunting. In the environmental field, hunters participate in the maintenance of territories, natural habitats and wildlife. Their action to regulate large game populations, for example, contributes to maintaining ecological balance. The text resulting from the CMP compromise helps to ease the relationship between hunting actors and environmental associations. I am thinking in particular of the contribution of the departmental federations, abounded by the State, and of actions to promote biodiversity. In the end, the OFB helps to achieve a balance between the various actors of civil society, so that everyone is firmly committed to the preservation of the environment. But the most important thing is elsewhere. Our concerns focused on the financial side. Our group welcomes the fact that the resources of the water agencies have been sanctified, as the increase in their contribution could have prejudiced the maintenance of an ambitious water policy. This year they are contributing € 243 million and € 37 million respectively to the financing of AFB and ONCFS. We will ensure that these advances are maintained during the review of the next FLP. Despite the reservations I raised, particularly with regard to the desire to devote the role of the State to the detriment of the role of local and regional authorities, we are convinced that the OFB will provide ambitious and coordinated answers to the questions of all actors in order to preserve species and natural habitats in all our territories. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of the text. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Yet that will not be enough. These issues need to be cross-cutting across all public policies, whether they are carried out by the State or on the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u320	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u321	The ecological question is the key question, in the strict sense, of our time: its resolution will open, or forever leave closed, the doors of the centuries to come. Our thinking must be up to the problem. The issue of biodiversity is not limited to the preservation of some exotic species that surround us here or there. Too often, it has been thought of in terms that, given the facts that are now before us, are inadequate. Biodiversity had to be preserved for itself, its fascinating beauty being the corollary of its supposed externality. This is why the collective imagination has more often seized whales, seals and other polar bears than insects, which disappeared in colossal proportions: to draw attention to themselves, it was better to be pretty; A mammal, at this game, was more likely to win than an insect, with few exceptions. Now the situation has become quite different: it is no longer possible to pose the problem in symbolic terms, as fair and poignant as these symbols are. In 30 years, 80% of insects have disappeared from Europe. Over the same period, 421 million birds disappeared, or one third of the population. One reason is that birds eat insects. The increasing urbanization of land, the recurrent use of pesticides, the disastrous effects of the re-memberment from the 1950s to the 1980s, the increasing climate change: all factors that contribute to the current situation, that of a sixth mass extinction of species. The fifth, rather famous extinction was that of dinosaurs 66 million years ago. If I recall these figures, it is to give the measure – or rather the misunderstanding – of the problem we are facing. Homo sapiens, that is to say, we are 300,000 years old. In other words, he has never experienced any difficulty of this magnitude. It seems to me fundamental to remember that our species is part of a material order. Here lies the most important fact of our time: we realize, increasingly, that we are in the middle of nature – neither in its center, nor above, nor outside, but in the middle of it. The institutional changes at stake here, which we have already discussed, are probably a partial response to the problem. We are certainly in favour of the merger of the AFB and the ONCFS. Nevertheless, a part is only valid for the whole of it. This is where it hurts, Madam Secretary of State: the whole within which the institutional part of your project fits does not in any way challenge the fundamental structures that threaten human existence by destroying the living world that allows it. Let us take a concrete example: to address the problem of the massive disappearance of birds and insects, we need to change the agricultural model. But to do this, we must face with determination the interests of the agro-industry and impose the restoration of hedges to repair the disaster of dismemberment. Consider that since the 1950s, 750,000 kilometres of hedges have been destroyed in French groves! Yet, what are you doing? With Article 3a, you open the possibility of derogation from hunting bans, in particular to extend hunting for ash geese, which is contrary to European law. Nicolas Hulot had resigned to protest the influence of the hunters' lobby; You seem to have integrated the Government with their blessing. Many associations, committed farmers and citizens who have become aware of this major problem propose another model, but you do not listen to them. Breaking with the logic of land concentration and monoculture, promoting ecological and sustainable peasantry: this is the horizon, the very one that you refuse to join when you agree to free trade treaties with Canada or with Brazil of Bolsonaro, whose action against indigenous peoples is criminal. The ever-increasing concentration of the means of production is a general law of capitalism that you would have the greatest difficulty in denying. This concentration is incompatible, in many areas, with the survival of the species and of the living. When you lower the standards between France and Canada or Brazil, you'll have a thousand cows and tens of thousands of head chicken farms everywhere. This disgusting world that you are preparing is by no means compatible with a general logic of preserving biodiversity. To master the crazy logics that lead us to disaster, we need a strong public power. Therefore, even if the merger you are doing here makes sense, we fear that it will lead, as often, to the removal of full-time equivalents. We agree with the concerns of the Ecological Defence Council, created against your will and against your policy. It is not by yielding to the appetite of capitalism for the private monopoly that we will save the diversity of life; interest and greed cannot be our salvation. This liberal fable is more than two centuries old and has proven its radical danger. The mistake is human, Madam Secretary of State, but persevering is evil.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u322	Who do you tell...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u323	At present, it is criminal to refuse to break with the capitalist dynamics that extend the urbanization of soils, dry them up and mass kill living species. So hear the noise of the streets, read on the walls of your ministry what it is urgent to do! See the Extinction Rebellion movement, the young for the climate, the yellow vests! They all have one thing in common: they know that this system is out of breath. He is not only unable to save us; He's killing us. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is with the words of the historian Tacite that I call you to responsibility: "Where they have made a desert, they say they have given peace. May you reflect on your contradictions from this sentence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u324	The joint general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u325	I would like to thank Alain Perea and Florence Lasserre-David, as well as Guillaume Garot, Maina Sage and Paul-André Colombani, for their support and commitment to vote in favour of this text. They welcomed a reasonable and constructive compromise, which goes in the right direction. If he allows me, I would also like to see in a positive light Hubert Wulfranc's abstention, which he has given me the freedom to interpret: he has acknowledged the progress made in this text, even though he also has some reservations. I would also like to answer a few questions. Firstly, the new office will be an efficient operator, whose action will be comparable to that carried out by ADEME in the field of the energy transition. It will enable the networking of all actors. I would also like to reassure you of its consideration of the overseas and maritime sectors, and above all of the financial resources available to it. I had committed myself to this, and I am committed to it again at this time of the year in which the budget preparation is under way: this large institution will be financed without taking any additional operational resources from the appropriations of the water agencies; the financing will be mainly budgetary. I would also like to reassure you of the human resources available to him. Tomorrow I will receive a delegation of executives and the union organizations of the institution, which is just as important to reassure. It is essential that we maintain dialogue so that agents are recognized to the extent of their commitment. Secondly, the intention of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and in general of the Government as a whole, is to ensure the coherence of our actions and to make environmental and sustainable development policies a global subject. To that end, this morning we held the second meeting of the Ecological Defence Council, chaired by the President of the Republic, whose purpose is to show that these themes belong to all. The President of the Republic has asked us to continue to work on other cross-cutting issues, such as the fight against soil artificialisation. On the other hand, it is clear that the agricultural transition concerns both the ministries of ecological transition, agriculture and European affairs, because this question arises within the framework of the CAP, the common agricultural policy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, IDU-I and LT groups]] I therefore call on Mr Sermier, who welcomed the progress made in this text, while expressing some regrets, to express his constructive abstention, and on Mrs Panot to seize the progress made when it comes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u326	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u327	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u328	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law establishing the French Biodiversity Office, amending the missions of the hunters' federations and strengthening the environmental police. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. I have before me four amendments, Nos 5, 6, 7 and 8, which can be presented together. The Secretary of State has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u329	It is only a matter of correcting material or reference errors, and these purely legal amendments have obviously been drafted in full agreement with the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u330	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u331	The committee is in favour of the four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u332	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendments adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u333	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 42 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u334	I put to the vote the whole of the draft organic law amending Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-09-E1009.u335	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system; Discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate, to adapt the organization of new municipalities to the diversity of territories. The meeting is adjourned.
