ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on the competences of the European Community of Alsace (No. 1844, 2039).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u2	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u3	I would like to begin the examination of the draft law on the competences of the European Community of Alsace by quoting historian Fernand Braudel. The latter, seeking to define French identity, said: "France is called diversity". Yet it is a conviction that we share here, our country has only one face, that of the Republic. The bill that brings us together this evening shows how the government to which I belong intends to reconcile the unity of the Republic with attention to the specificities of the territories. Indeed, in the spirit of the draft constitutional revision on the right of differentiation, it is a matter of finding institutional responses adapted to the needs of each territory, not only to enhance local identities, but also to ensure that each territory can draw on its own assets in order to develop and bring about the best living conditions for its inhabitants within the republican framework. To do this, my conviction is that it is not necessary to wait a great evening, but that it is necessary to adjust what may be. On the method, this project is particularly original in that it illustrates a new way of dealing with the territories. The European Community of Alsace – CEA – thus meets the expectations of the Alsatian departments. This text is the result of a process of co-development with all stakeholders, initiated since last summer. We are accompanying a local initiative here. The key principles on which this bill is based are: to listen, to understand the aspirations of each other, and to try to reconcile them by making a "sewn hand", which is based on the expression of a local will. I would also like to highlight how much, despite this unusual process that gives a first voice to local actors, the bill has been enriched by the Senate; It will, of course, still be by the Members. Parliament is the guarantor of the legislative work and of the arrangements for the organisation of local authorities, and I mean that it remains so. To return to the genesis of this text, it is important to recall two significant events: first, the failure of the 2013 referendum, which aimed to create a single territorial community bringing together the regional council of Alsace as well as the two departments of Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin; Then, the creation, in 2015, of the Grand Est region. It was in this context that the demand for an institutional evolution to give a clearer incarnation to the Alsatian territory was asserted. In January 2018, a mission was entrusted to the regional prefect Jean-Luc Marx to conduct a consultation on the Alsatian institutional issue, provided that the Greater East region retains its integrity and that the current major balances governing the distribution of competences between communities are respected. The Prefect proposed to bring the two departments closer together in a new department, which would be entrusted, within the framework of the powers of differentiation provided for by the constitutional review, with complementary powers, essential in view of its very marked cross-border character. To make the creation of this new community a success, I have visited the field many times and worked closely with my colleagues Élisabeth Borne and Jean-Michel Blanquer, whom I thank very much. A joint declaration involving the Government, the two departmental councils and the Grand Est region was concluded on 29 October 2018 and signed by the Prime Minister and the community executive. It provides an appropriate answer for Alsace and finds part of its translation in the bill that I have the honour to present to you today. The creation of the European Community of Alsace takes several stages. First stage: the consolidation of the two departments of Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin into one. After, on February 4, the two departmental councils had deliberated favorably to request this grouping, a decree, dated February 27, proceeded there, to form the European Community of Alsace; this grouping shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. Step two: the addition, by law – and this is the purpose of the bill that I am introducing – of specific competences in cross-border cooperation, bilingualism, tourism and transportation. The third stage is the development of cultural, economic or sports policies, the guidelines of which were laid down in the joint declaration. They are the subject of extensive work with the deconcentrated services of the State and other levels of the communities concerned and will, for the most part, be translated into regulatory acts. The powers which the draft law seeks to give to Alsace are sufficiently justified by Alsatian specificities so that the current constitutional framework allows them to be assigned permanently and circumscribed. Thus, on 1 January 2021, the European Community of Alsace will exercise the "classical" foundation of departmental competences, plus competences in cross-border matters. Article 1 of the draft law lays down the principle of a head of the community, in its territory exclusively, with regard to cross-border cooperation. The community will have the capacity to organize collective action, without restricting the capacity of other interested communities. It will be responsible for drawing up an Alsatian framework for cross-border cooperation, drawn up in association with all the communities and stakeholders concerned. It will have the capacity, in full coherence with the regional strategy, to develop an operational component on structural projects such as health, mobility or vocational training. It will thus be able to be delegated by the State, the region or public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – EPCI – powers for the implementation of the projects mentioned in the Alsatian scheme of cross-border cooperation. This ad hoc delegation system is valid for all affected communities. It will then be entrusted with competences in the field of bilingualism, in order to strengthen this cultural vector and that factor of professional mobility which constitutes the regional language, understood here, in accordance with the conventions in use, such as the German language.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u4	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u5	The exchanges I have conducted in connection with Jean-Michel Blanquer have made it possible to identify two particular aspects in order to develop the teaching of German: firstly, the improvement of the attractiveness of the conditions for the recruitment of teachers recruited by the Ministry of National Education and, secondly, the possibility for the European Community of Alsace to recruit speakers in line with the framework for the recruitment of national education, in order to enable language teaching beyond regulatory hours, in complementarity with national programmes. The community will contribute to the mobilization of a pool, so that national education can accelerate recruitment, and it will remove the barriers that have been identified. The State and the Community are therefore firmly committed to achieving, together, progress commensurate with the needs. The Community will also exercise powers in the field of tourism: this is the subject of Article 2. In its territory, ECA leads and coordinates the work of communities and other relevant actors, in line with the regional tourism and leisure development framework. Article 3 also gives him powers in the field of road infrastructure. Indeed, the draft law acts the transfer, management and operation of national roads and unlicensed motorways located in Alsace, on which, if it so wishes, the European Community of Alsace will be able to raise specific resources contributing to the control of road freight traffic – this is the object of Article 11. It is a matter of solving a problem that concerns the Alsatians rightly, and for a long time. All the elements I have just presented will help to give ECA a real institutional substance while maintaining the necessary balance with other local authorities. The components of the bill have, of course, evolved during the consideration of the bill by the Senate and then by your law commission. Senators have exercised their right of amendment and the Government will be in favour of maintaining some of the changes made to the text, which the commission has preserved or modified at the margin. I would mention, for example, the addition of a provision on health competence within the framework of cross-border cooperation. There are indeed important issues in this area, in order to deal, for example, with problems of remoteness from the hospital supply. I would also like to mention one sensitive point: the return to ordinary law for the arrangements for the transfer of agents operating on roads. It guarantees the European Community of Alsace not to be penalized by any movement of personnel on the eve of the transfer. I also welcome the fact that your committee has come back to what would break the balance reached on the text. I will mention only two particularly significant examples. First, the Commission has ruled out the possibility for any other metropolitan or overseas department that requests it to be assigned the powers of ECA. This text is, as I said, the result of a specific drafting process. It is not intended to preempt the debate on future differentiation, which it merely prefigures, with the possibilities offered within the existing constitutional framework. Moreover, it would be a bad augury to consider that the extension to all of a model designed to be adapted to a specific territory is a good way to differentiate between the exercise of competences. This bill, on the other hand, invites other territories that wish to do so to follow their own path to develop a common project at their scale, in order to respond to their specific challenges. Differentiation will provide them with a framework for this. Subsequently, the commission restored the Government's power to legislate by ordinance to define the modalities for regulating road traffic. I would like to remind you how the reference to the order is, in a pragmatic way, the only possible solution. Indeed, several options are currently under consideration to regulate traffic on Alsatian roads, including the establishment of a public service delegation. It is therefore not desirable for the law to define the content of a tax to be introduced, nor is it desirable to refer the subject to a future finance law. This would be tantamount to endorsing one choice among others, depriving the Alsatians and the State of the possibility of conducting a serious study to consider all the options. I would also like to commend the work of the Law Committee, and more specifically of its rapporteur, Rémy Rebeyrotte, whom I thank for his investment because the bill was completed in a timely manner on certain aspects, while remaining faithful to the spirit of the Matignon Declaration of 29 October 2018. I am thinking of the precise nature of river competence within the framework of cross-border cooperation, which recalls the structural nature of the Rhine in relations with Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u6	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u7	I congratulate the rapporteur, of course, by being well aware of all the riches brought by each other in committee. I am also thinking, with regard to the promotion of bilingualism, of the provision relating to the strategic committee. While the drafting still needs to be clarified, it is worth stressing the importance of close cooperation between the State and the European Community of Alsace on these issues. In this regard, let us recall the Government's commitment to establish a centre of excellence in plurilingualism, which will radiate in Alsace of course but also in the Greater East as a whole. This tool will serve a new ambition in German language learning. On the other hand, a provision of the text resulting from the work in committee seems embarrassing to me: the name of the departmental councillors, called "Alsace Councillors".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u9	On the one hand, the designation of community councillors does not fall within the scope of the law, since the choice may be specific to the internal functioning of the community. [["Of course"! on the benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, this name is a source of confusion for our fellow citizens. I have no doubt of the complete unselfishness of those who are behind it. Of course. But, on the day of the departmental elections, will the voters know who they are voting for? I would remind you that the European Community of Alsace is the result of the merger of two departments and that you do not mind the fact that it remains a department. It's a fact. Although she will have specific skills related to her border situation, she will remain a department. I say it loud and clear because I want to make it clear: I am obliged to do so by this amendment concerning the members you voted for. We maintain the administrative division of state, as I had committed myself to it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u11	...but on the day that departmental elections will take place, it will be necessary for the Alsatians to know who they are voting for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u12	We'll explain it to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u13	Especially if the regional elections take place on the same day as the departmental elections: I am not saying that this will be the case, but it has already happened. I have no doubt for a moment that by retaining the name "Alsace Councillor", you have thought "Alsace Departmental Councillor", but the precision seems important to me because, I repeat, we have, from the beginning, set two limits to this negotiation: no exit from the Great East, and no community with special status.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u14	For now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u15	That being said, I remain confident that our discussions will allow us to continue to improve the text in order to better serve Alsatian specificities, within the framework that has been set. In this respect, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee on Laws for the quality of their work. Members of the House of Commons, this bill is a balanced, concrete and pragmatic one that is the result of a process developed with key stakeholders. I wish to continue the parliamentary debate by maintaining a constant fidelity to the political process which led to the joint declaration signed on 29 October between all the stakeholders. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR and IDU-I groups]] I am therefore particularly pleased to present to you today a text that meets a will and an ambition for Alsace and the Alsatians, within the Great East. This is an important milestone in the Government's policy, which we want to be ambitious for the territories. The President of the Republic and the Prime Minister supported him, I supported him myself as best I could, so that this text could be completed. We hope that the diversity of Alsace will be recognised, that it will be able to develop its forces, within our republican framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u16	I call Mr Remy Rebeyrotte, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u17	Let us recall from the outset the origin and specificity of this text, which comes from Alsace, of the will of the elected representatives of the Alsatian territory, and in the first place of the two presidents of the departmental councils as well as of the departmental councillors of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin, who voted almost unanimously to create this new European community of Alsace. They wanted to restore an institutional reality to Alsace, whose reality and geographical, historical and cultural specificity are not disputed. Let us recall this origin to clarify that this text strictly concerns the territory where it was born, that is, Alsace. Perhaps it will give the envy and ambition to other territories to take initiatives, identical or different, in order to respond to specific problems of development and carrying of public policies, as the President of the Republic has opened the possibility during the great debate, addressing the elected representatives of the territories. It may be desired, and already there are examples, but this text, born from the political responsibility of the Alsatian elected representatives and the confidence of the executive, concerns Alsace exclusively. Let us also remember the framework in which we work. First, it is constitutional. With regard to regional differentiation and experimentation, the framework, as you know, is very constrained since the constitutional reform, which has not yet been adopted, was intended to broaden it. There is therefore no question of adapting national law to local or regional specificities. Similarly, from an institutional and legal point of view, the future community is the consolidation of two departments within the framework of a region, the Greater East Region, created in 2015 and established since then. However, it was within this limited framework that the Alsatian elected officials were able to seize an opportunity, open a window, and convince the Government to restore an institutional reality to Alsace in order to deal with recurring problems or specific issues. Two words mark this text: responsibility and trust – two terms often used by the President of the Republic and the Government. The Government has opened the dialogue and discussion, in connection with the Greater East region. He initiated a case study carried out by the Regional Prefect, Mr. Jean-Luc Marx. This resulted last October in a joint declaration by the two departments, the Grand Est region and the Government, known as the Matignon Agreement, which gives its name to the future community, the European Community of Alsace, created by decree on 27 February last, and defines the principle of the additional powers that it can exercise to take account of the Alsatian specificity. We want to clarify the exercise of the powers that come under the law, strictly from the law – because many aspects of this agreement come under the regulatory power or even the mere convention. Let us stress the Minister's very strong commitment to this long process and the work carried out last week in committee, since more than sixty-five amendments, coming from all of our benches, have been adopted. I referred to the window opened by the Alsatian elected representatives to the Government. Let us stress the will and quality of the commitment made by the executive. It would have been easy for him not to meet this territorial ambition, by referring it to the constitutional reform or to a review of the creation of the new regions, which will probably take place in a few years' time. The Government had assumed its responsibilities and wished to respond on a case-by-case basis to the ambitions of the Territories. This commendable commitment calls on all of us to shoulder our responsibilities and maintain a sense of balance. So let's not overbid. The European Community of Alsace was born by decree of 27 February last. Through this bill, we want to secure his name. The Matignon agreement invites us to work on its specific competences, in the spirit of the agreement itself. It should be remembered that this agreement does not remove anything from anyone, and in particular from the other communities of the Great East, according to the wish repeatedly reiterated by the Prime Minister. These specific powers are quasi-exclusive transfers from the State and are exercised in connection with the State and the Greater East region: the cross-border, in a broad acceptance, which the Senate has indeed extended to include health skills, for which the new community will be the leader; bilingualism, the regional language being understood as standard German and its dialectical forms; Major roads; the promotion and attractiveness of tourism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and UDI-I groups and on some benches of the LR group]] This is the overall framework of our work. It is up to us to find the balance acceptable to all parties and desirable for Alsace and the Alsatians. Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u18	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u19	[[The speaker spoke a few words in Alsatian]] Let me start with a small word in Alsatian, which may be worth a point of order, but it is not a big deal. It meant "Be greeted, dear friends." Nice, isn't it? Let us go back to the time of the adoption of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – the NOTRE law – that of the large regions. Alsace, our Alsace, with its Rhine geography, its international, continental economy, its so painful history, its culture so particular, would disappear, integrated, diluted in a whole greater than Switzerland, greater than Belgium, greater than the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u20	But smaller than Brittany!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u21	This was done without discussion, without agreement, with a feeling of humiliation, that of not counting, that of being a simple adjustment variable. The thirteen Alsatian deputies of the opposition fought, magnificent speeches were held – words of love, words of sorrow, words of anger, but always words of the heart. During these debates, almost 30 per cent of the speeches were ours. For hours, nights spent here to, at the end, feel only immense pain. In Alsace, there is very rarely any evidence. We don't scream, we don't break, but the pain is there. She's still here. Four times, by four polls, the Alsatians said one simple thing, one strong thing: they want to get out of the Great East. Moreover, and this is new, our Lorrain friends and our friends and fellow citizens of Champagne-Ardenne seem to have nostalgia for their beautiful regions. But in the beginning, I wanted to talk about parliamentary debates to give you an anecdote. The minister on the bench of the government was Mr. Cazeneuve, then Minister of the Interior. He defended with talent a law that would reunite the two Normandys, his region, but he understood, it seems to me, the limits of this text. At the heart of the debates, at the heart of the night, he came to sit by my side and asked me kindly: "Why, in this great region, would you not merge your two departments? I replied: "We are a region and we should accept today to be just a department? That's not what the Alsatians want. And I added a presumptuous: "Never! » What are we going to vote today? We will endorse the merger of the two departments, give the new community a name, a positive sign for some, a little snoring for others. We will also transfer State powers in the fields of Rhine cooperation, bilingualism, roads and, on the margins, economics and tourism. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are far away from what we were: a region. We are far from what we want: a council of Alsace, a community of regional and departmental competences at the level of our territory. In my personal capacity, I used two formulas: "It is not by buttering crumbs that we make a feast" and "At a time when you are disbursing homeopathy, you are inventing a homeopathic Alsace".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u22	He's spiriting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u23	And yet, without enthusiasm, we are finally ready to support this text for two reasons. The first, which I think is important, is that Alsace will find an institutional organisation at the level of its territory. Alsace needs a community that can speak on behalf of the Alsatians, it needs its space, geography, culture or economy to be able to express itself and be heard. It will be by one department: it is disappointing, but it is a step forward, a step that calls for others. The second reason lies in the new skills given to the future community, ECA. Here too, we would have loved so much more! But here too, it's a step forward. The step is modest and, on this point, we would have liked the Government – it was easy – to get on with it. But we finally consider it better to see a glass of Carola, Wattwiller, Celtic or Soultzmatt half full rather than half empty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u24	And a glass of wine, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u25	I would like at this moment to clarify, Madam Minister, what I believe to be our state of mind. If this text is an outcome, then for Alsace it will be a failure, that of an institutionally apnea region, that of a population to which the minimum has been given to appease it. If this text, on the other hand, is a step, the first step towards a future evolution, then it can be rich in meaning. In this respect, only the future will tell us whether our debates and this text bear history. I would like, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to express a pain. Engaged in constitutional reform, you refuse to include our community under section 72 of the Constitution, thus opening up legal uncertainties. You refuse Alsace an institutional evolution easily granted to others. When, very recently, Mrs Hidalgo wanted to merge city and department, the socialist government, to which the future President Macron belonged, did so. When the mayor of Lyon wanted to give his agglomeration the departmental powers, the Rhône was split in two. For Corsica, two departments and the region were merged by law, while the population had expressed itself negatively by referendum. I will also refer to the overseas monodepartmental regions where the merger is being carried out or planned. I do not criticise any of these developments: what disturbs me, if not shockes me, is that the door was closed from the outset for Alsace, whereas so many things are possible elsewhere. Of course, a question arises: are the Alsatians worth less than a Parisian, a Lyonnais or a Corsican? You'll tell me I'm exaggerating, but at the bottom of our hearts, there's a little of that. I would like to take two minutes to come back to the reform of the regions. Why was it made? To break the territorial councilman's reform, too sarkozyst? To save the department dear to President Hollande? To save money, at a time when Brussels was demanding structural reforms? These savings are not there. On the contrary, large regions have incurred large operating costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u26	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u27	I would like here to denounce a lie of state: in order to pass the reform, Mr Vallini, then Secretary of State, said that she would make 10 billion savings. In an interview given to the Special Envoy, which everyone can see, this person admitted that this figure was improvised, the result of a wet-fingered calculation – a figure repeated as an absolute truth, to have a text voted. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – MM. Olivier Becht, Bruno Fuchs and Vincent Thiébaut also applaud]] And what about cutting, Dutch amateurism, when a fake map was given to the press? The division by two of the number of regions was a mantra, but the cutting was made on a gueredon, according to the aura of the hierarchs of the moment. Everyone remembers the exchanges between Mr. Ayrault, Mr. Le Drian, Ms. Royal and Ms. Aubry. Champagne-Ardenne has thus passed in a few hours from a marriage with Picardie to a marriage with Alsace, from the Bay of Somme to the Rhine, all without studies or consultation. Probably the most absurd DIY in the Fifth Republic. Minister, you did not pass this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u28	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u29	I even listened to and approved of you here when, on the occasion of a question to the Government, you responded in a harsh way, which even prompted me to applaud you strongly. And yet, on this law, you are playing the status quo, against your convictions. Perhaps in order not to hurt your Government colleague, Mr Olivier Dussopt, who was the socialist rapporteur for this text? That's a little crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u30	We have to clean him up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u31	I would like to address the genesis of this text. I mentioned the law, I will not speak again about the referendum voted by 58% of the Alsatians – because it was because of special conditions that the referendum was considered a failure: the result is 58%. I will not speak of Philippe Richert, who won the first great estian regional election before having to leave his presidency, as his conversion made him unpopular in Alsace. Thanks to the mobilisation of many elected representatives, thanks to the action of many citizens gathered in beautiful associations, the pressure has never decreased. We wanted a return to Alsace. Rather quickly, we felt that evolution would be possible. Here I welcome the Marx report, commissioned by the Government, which presents interesting leads. Unfortunately, Philippe Richert's successor to the presidency of the region, Mr Rottner, has been very involved in this matter. He negotiated at the Elysée the intangible maintenance of the Great East perimeter. Then he obtained from the Prime Minister that the powers of the region would not be affected. Thus, only the merger of the two departments remained. You gave him everything and yet, to our surprise, he called on the Europeans to vote Bellamy: admit that it is well paid. That said, let us remember that Mr.Rottner, who had had more than 60000 Alsatians sign a petition to defend their region, became president of the Great East and the first activist of the impossible return to Alsace. After the Marx report, you were asked, Madam Minister, to deal with the matter, within the narrow framework of the "no one touches the region, neither within its borders, nor within its powers". That is how we are discussing, as you have rightly acknowledged, a simple merger of two departments, with a few powers that the State is willing to give us. I said earlier that this text is not nothing, but I would also like to say that to merge two departments is not to come back to Alsace: it is to merge two departments. For that, moreover, there is no need for a law. The Act deals with the name and powers of the State transferred. I would like to point out one point that is troubling me: seventy-two hours before the Matignon Accords, Members of Parliament and Senators have discovered the approach that has been taken. The two presidents were put under pressure throughout one, and only one weekend. The Matignon Accords were signed on a Monday, without coordination or consultation with parliamentarians. I told you about my bad mood. You told me that everything would be discussed in the context of parliamentary time. We have been there for a few weeks and what is the doctrine of the Government? Matignon's accords, just Matignon's accords! Clearly, MPs and senators do not count for anything in this matter. I wanted to share with you on this point my immense disappointment. Finally, I would like to address the points which are dear to me and which cost nothing. First of all, statistics: we have always had, as everywhere in France, departmental statistics compiled on a regional scale. Since the creation of the major regions, the Bank of France, INSEE and other public bodies have eliminated data at the Alsatian level. I don't doubt the order came from Paris, but tomorrow, what about it? We will have two departments within the meaning of the State and one Alsatian community, ECA. Madam Minister, isn't it time to stop erasing Alsace? Then, the mineralogic plates: the government that preceded you wanted to impose its XXL regions up to the plates of French vehicles. Today, legally, you can only affix a plaque of the new Dutch regions: for Alsace, the Great East. It is not possible for you to affix a plate bearing the Alsatian coat of arms. However, if you are angry, you can legally affix a Corsican or Breton plaque! Admit, Madam Minister, that it is ridiculous. You argue that this issue is not a matter of law but a matter of regulatory authority. Why not? But in these circumstances, why, both on this subject and on statistics, have not taken the necessary measures? Changing an order doesn't cost anything. My feeling is that, on this point, however, so simple, we will find it difficult to achieve any evolution. The most serious thing remains: we had not seen that, behind the great region, the risk of breaking the Alsatian social fabric would be hidden. Oh, it's not in the law! But all sports, cultural and professional federations are invited to organize themselves at the level of the Great East. If they want subsidies from the state or the region, organizing at the level of the Great East is mandatory. Decades of regional solidarity have been crushed. For sport, there is no more small champion of Alsace. Since Alsace is the small territory behind the mountain, in a region of 400 kilometres long, seventy federations or public organisations have left Strasbourg, usually for Nancy. From Strasbourg to Nancy, it takes two hours to go and two hours to return, sometimes one hour and twenty minutes to meet. You can imagine the withdrawal of Alsatian cadres from all regional bodies! With regard to administrations, after the regional health agency – ARS –, after the regional chamber of accounts, it was the rectorate that Mr Blanquer wanted to close in Strasbourg. Without the yellow vests, it might already be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u32	The problem is, it's no longer a full-exercise rectorate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u33	If nothing changes on these issues, today's text will have served little for civil society in our region. I also wonder about one point: Strasbourg, located at the end of the territory, is the great loser of the Great East. Every day, it becomes a little more a regional sub-prefecture. Do you think his role as European capital – 20,000 jobs anyway! – is compatible with this permanent decline? Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to engage in any controversy: I just want to tell you how essential this issue is, especially for sports and professional federations, because it is a slow but permanent destruction of the Alsatian social fabric. In the course of my remarks, I did not allow myself to address the scope of the new competencies given to the community. My colleague Raphaël Schellenberger, who has invested a great deal in this matter, will do so with the talent we know him. That said, these are both interesting, too limited in scope, sometimes imprecise, and dependent on temporary or subsequent decisions, which is not without concern. I would like to conclude with a regret. In our country, each parcel of our territory is administered by six institutional levels: commune, intercommunality, department, region, state, and Europe. In addition to this, the territorial and rural poles of balance – PETR – are now growing in power and are often becoming management structures. Our country could, in Alsace, have experienced a healthy fusion of regional and departmental authorities. But no: rail and road, mass and high-level sports, surface water and groundwater, sometimes neighbouring colleges and high schools will remain managed by different administrations! The Council of Alsace remains our objective, a political objective, an objective of rationalisation of public policies, an objective of optimisation of public expenditure. Of course, with this law, as Mr Thiébaut said, we come from far away, but in the end we do not go very far. The Marx report was released on June 15, 2018, and the Matignon agreements signed on October 29, 2018. In order for Parliament not to be merely a registration chamber, to extend the powers vested in the CEA, to assert what must be, we ask you to refer it back to committee. A few days for Alsace, is that too much to ask? Let me end this with a thought that's not fair to me. A few months ago, an anniversary was passed in silence, that of the return of Alsace to France: a hundred years in the heart of the Republic, after forty-eight years spent in the German Empire. This anniversary was neither celebrated nor even evoked, as indeed were not mentioned the 50,000 Alsatian and Mosellan deaths, who died in the uniform of the Kayser because France had ceded Alsace-Moselle in 1871. Not a word, not a tribute. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Our region is no more than any other region. The French of metropolis and overseas must be equal and united. But our region deserves a look, another look, that of a girondine France, respecting the expectations of its territories. Alsace is a chance for France and it has only one desire: to be united to be strong in the heart of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u34	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u35	"A few days for Alsace, is it too much to ask? is a very nice question. The Law Committee, which I chair, has really devoted more than a few days to Alsace. The Government has been extremely attentive to this text, which comes from the ground. At the Law Commission, we thought that we should listen to this land. Our rapporteur has taken a long time to conduct a number of hearings in the House. In particular, it has heard almost all parliamentarians from this region. We also devoted a long time to the general discussion in the Law Commission. The elect of the Great East came and got the word as long as they wanted. We even relocated the Law Committee, and went to Alsace, Strasbourg, to have exchanges with the prefects and elected representatives of the territory. The rapporteur also extended this visit to meet with economic and social actors. So we really took the time. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] After this visit, we examined this text for six and thirty hours in committee. I have given the floor to ten or fifteen speakers on one amendment, because we are all aware that it is an extremely important text and that we must listen to the territories. That is what we have done in committee, and we are ripe to debate in this House. Of course, I think that this motion for referral to committee is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u36	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u37	Mr President, I thank you for your intervention, even if the referral to committee is not in line with our logic. I understand that it has been an opportunity for you to recall certain elements that are of particular interest to you, starting with the history of Alsace, which I have heard. At the same time, you have recognized the step forward in recognizing the institutional existence of Alsace. That is indeed a very important point, and I thank you for saying so. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will answer the questions that you still have during the examination of the text. In the meantime, I thank you for not voting on this referral back to committee, which would not allow us to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u38	In explanation of vote on the motion, the floor is Mr. Bastien Lachaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u39	We do not fully agree with our colleague's argument, that is the least we can say, but the members of the La France insoumée group will vote on this motion for referral, for two reasons. First, this bill is the first application of the territorial differentiation desired by Emmanuel Macron,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u40	By the French and most local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u41	... except that the constitutional review has not yet been voted. We therefore find it problematic to move forward so quickly, when we should first discuss the constitutional review. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Secondly, if this proposal were so necessary, if it were endorsed by the Alsatians, perhaps they would have voted in 2013! However, this has not been the case. We have the impression that this proposal is a remake of the referendum on the 2005 Constitutional Treaty: French people, in this case Alsatians, say no, and national representation sits on the choice of peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u42	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u43	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u44	[[Ms. Fiat applauds]] I refer you to the latest polls: more than 65% of Alsatians have not heard of this proposal, or are not in favour of it. Maybe we should take the time to let them know what's going to happen to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u45	Stop being a politician!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u46	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u47	The GDR Group considers that, for too many years, notably because of the NOTRE law, the administrative map of our country and public policies have been excluded, in the name of the right to differentiation that the Government wants to establish. The State thus knowingly withdraws from its responsibilities by circumventing the reality of the social, territorial and fiscal inequalities of our country. For our part, we defend the principle of a one and indivisible Republic, of a Jacobine France and of progress everywhere and for all. We cannot therefore join the contradictory debate between the Government and the parliamentary right. We will therefore not participate in the vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u48	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u49	The Republicans group put to the vote a motion to refer the matter back to committee. In reality, what is it, if not a call for procrastination, under the guise of improving this text? Let us remember Montesquieu telling us that the best is the mortal enemy of good. Here is a project developed in close co-construction with all stakeholders involved, be they national or local, institutional or civil. Here I wish to greet my colleague and friend Vincent Thiébaut for his patient and continuous work for two years. Here is a project from the two departments of Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin, which President Klinkert and President Bierry have defended, and which the two departmental executive have already voted. Here is a project for the future, supported by the Government on the first day – thank you, Madam Minister – a project that was sanitized on 29 October by the Matignon agreement. The whole deal, just the deal! [[The speaker sings in Alsatian. – Laughs]] A famous Alsatian ritournelle, whose first documented reference dates back to 1842 and which the great Alsatian artist Charles Spindler illustrated in one of his magnificent marquetries, must enlighten our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u50	The language of the Republic is French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u51	There is talk of an innkeeper from Koenigshoffen, in what was not yet the first constituency of the Lower Rhine, named Hans im Schnòckeloch, literally "Jean du trou aux mosquitoes": an eternal unsatisfied. Jean from the mosquito hole has everything he wants, and what he has, he doesn't want, and what he wants, he doesn't have. Jean from the mosquito hole has everything he wants. Because he doesn't know what he wants, the poor man will end up sadly in the asylum, like a madman. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Be sure, ladies and gentlemen, Alsace does not want to end up as our involuntary witness: it knows what it wants. Alsace is ready to begin to realize all the opportunities offered by the new European community of Alsace. The La République group is responding to Alsace and will therefore vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u52	I would remind you that it is rather forbidden to speak in a regional language or in a patois in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u53	It's forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u54	It's not a patois, it's a regional language!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u55	I recall the general rule. One speaker said a word in the rostrum earlier, which is acceptable, but I ask everyone to pay attention to his comments. Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u56	As Mr Furst pointed out a few moments ago, when the NOTRE law was passed a few years ago, we witnessed a real denial of democracy. There was no consultation with our fellow citizens. Even today, the polls – four of them since 2017 – clearly indicate that the Alsatians want a return to a full-function Alsatian community. That is why, over the past few months, we have been insisting that this Alsatian community in question should become a community of special status, as provided for in article 72 of the Constitution. That is quite possible, and – as has been said, Madam Minister – we must have a parliamentary debate on this point. I do not imagine for a moment that it can be reduced to a simulacre of debate on the grounds that everything would have been decided in Matignon in October and that no further progress would be possible; If that happens, it would be a serious problem. On the contrary, we hope that the debate that is taking place will be a genuine, constructive debate, including on this issue of the community with a special status. Now, you have recalled, for the moment, it is a fusion between departments that the text allows, not a return to Alsace as we would obviously wish. We will therefore continue to fight in the Chamber to give the European Community of Alsace real skills and thus obtain an authentic breakthrough; So far, and since Matignon's statements, progress seems a little meagre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u57	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u58	First of all, I want to join Laurent Furst's vibrant plea about Alsace. I appreciate his sincerity and support in part his comments on the NOTRE law. For the rest, his intervention contained several inaccuracies; Moreover, as part of what he is asking is already incorporated into the law, I do not see the usefulness of returning to it. As for the motion to refer to committee, it does not seem appropriate at all. Firstly, we have been discussing this subject for a year and there is no one week without parliamentarians being involved in the discussions to give their opinion and enrich the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u59	Those of the majority, no doubt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u60	You too, my dear colleague! In the committee of laws – as the president recalled – exceptional work has been done, including trips to Alsace. Why should we start the debate again in committee? Finally, I note with compassion the impotence revealed by my colleague's intervention: he asks us to divide the various lines on which the Republicans themselves are unable to agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u61	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u62	On the one hand, the line of the two departmental presidents who want to go further by giving them more skills; On the other hand, the line of the regional president, who does not want to yield anything. And now there's a third one on both lines!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u63	Too bad: he had started so well...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u64	Unable to find a common position, our colleagues are asking our House to decide. [[Mrs Caroline Abadie and Mr Ludovic Mendes applaud. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, my dear colleague, you are wrong in terms: it is rather a motion to reconsider in committee for personal convenience that you are asking, since you did not attend our proceedings!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u65	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u66	I will not sing a song in Occitan to boast of the wonderful country of the Ardèche; So you won't have to call me to order, Madam President. It was my understanding that a motion for referral to committee was intended to perfect a text with which we agreed, not to ask for a complete review or even to take the opposite step. I have listened at length to our colleague's attempt to justify his request; I perceived in his speech, moreover eloquent, a lot of bitterness,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u68	...as well as a little revancuous tone towards the previous government with respect to the NOTRE Act. But his dream of getting out of the Greater East region will not be realized through a referral to the commission, nor by a community with a particular status: the Government must be given the clarity of the statement and the intention on this subject. I therefore do not see the benefit that could be derived from a referral to committee. Finally, the text before us is the result of a territorial initiative, that of two departments...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u69	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u70	If: of two departmental authorities, of two executive. This does not mean that it corresponds to the unanimous will of the Alsatians; But, for my part, I respect the departmental executive, even when they are not on my side. From this point of view, it does not seem necessary to make them waste more time than reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u71	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u72	It means "the best" in Alsatian!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u73	The members of my group, particularly Alsatians, and I agree with several of the comments made by Laurent Furst. [[Mr. Vincent Thiébaut applauds]] However, I would like to highlight one fact. There have already been laws relating to Alsace; Laurent Furst made a historical reminder on this subject. There was one in 1870, when it came to act on the departure of Alsace, annexed by the Second Reich; There was one in 1919, to record, this time, his return to France; in 1940, he was integrated into the Third German Reich; There were laws and ordinances on Alsace in 1945, to re-act his return to France. But this is the first time, ladies and gentlemen, that a law on Alsace is being examined outside the dramatic circumstances of the war. This bill is not perfect; We will have an opportunity to discuss it, perhaps to enrich it even more. But I would remind my colleagues in the Republicans Group that, in general, referring a text back to committee amounts to a first-class burial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u74	Not always!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, I do not want to take the risk that the bill will be referred back to committee so that it will never come out again: it is this evening that we must begin to debate. We will therefore vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u76	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u77	If we had done this bill, we would not have done so: we would have created a community with the powers of both the region and the department. That being said, I do not see the point of referring the text back to committee, which, if again examined, would lead to the same result as today. Might as well go to the end, since the Alsatians are waiting for him; It will only be a department, of course, but they are waiting for a community that bears the name of Alsace: it is important for them. [[Mr. Jean-Jacques Bridey applauds]] We will therefore not vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u79	In the general debate, Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u80	The planet is dying, humanity is stifling; and you, in this air-conditioned chamber, are destroying the Republic, yet the only one able to allow us to embark on the ecological transition. It's too hot, and it's not normal. A great heatwave should only occur every ten centuries, not every ten years. But, rather than declaring a state of climate emergency, we are mineralizing cities even more – here, but also in the Seine-Saint-Denis, where it is warmer, because there are even fewer trees. What is the relationship, you will tell me, with the text under discussion? In the face of climate change, we have the choice between everyone for themselves and methodical organization. But we need an organised state to plan for the release of carbon-based energy. But you are working meticulously to destroy what the Republic is doing: its principles, to begin with; its organization, then. We need to make people all together, in solidarity; and you, you are trying to invent divisions between departments of the interior and border departments. There is an urgent need to invent the departments of overseas Vosges with special skills. As a historian, I remind you, it is on the old scars that the new wounds open. Such a perspective is dangerous. Yet things are clearly written: "France is an indivisible, secular, democratic and social Republic. This is how our common Constitution begins.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u82	And although, as you know, our political current is radically opposed to the institutions of the Fifth Republic, we are ready to defend this Article 1 of the Constitution, of which you intend to destroy the spirit. The bill seeks to undermine the unity and indivisibility of the Republic, which is contrary to the principle of equality and secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u83	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u84	Retrograde vision!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u85	It is dangerous to touch the unity of the Republic. Everyone fully understands that the rule is the same for all. The French people are very committed to the principle of equality. However, the bill aims to apply for the first time the famous "territorial differentiation" announced by the President after his election, but which was not part of his presidential programme: he had not, in fact, indicated his intention to dismantle the Republic, otherwise it can be guaranteed that many Republicans would have voted differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u86	Oh, there, the Jacobins...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u87	This Government does not have the democratic legitimacy necessary to bring about this major rupture with regard to the spirit of the Republic as proclaimed in article 1 of the Constitution. I would remind you that, until it is amended, the current wording of the Constitution applies, and that the amendment proposed by the majority to include in the constitutional text the right to territorial differentiation has not been voted on. Don't act like you are! It would be necessary to create a cross-border community in Alsace in order to create, in a way, a new frontier area, designed, to use the terms of the impact study, to "reduce" the border effect". But what about the new border with border space? Will it still be necessary to reduce the effect?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u88	It would take a good speaker to handle the reasoning by the absurd! And that would change us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u89	Your crazy logic will then want us to create a new "cross-border" community – and so on, until the whole country is balkanized, without order or method, under the effect of derogations derogatory: a complete mess in the standards, standards that you yourself will then ask to simplify. What was said, indeed, of the incomprehensible administrative mille-feuille! And now we're creating a new layer. Besides, why stop there? Why not a border community of the Alps, the Pyrenees, Calais, the North – and even of Île-de-France, since the largest border crossing point is in fact constituted by the airports of Paris,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u90	They're selling them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u91	...that you are trying to privatize! Why is it only with Germany that you are considering this cooperation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u92	They're next door!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If the principle is good, it must be applied everywhere; If it's bad, you don't have to apply it anywhere. Instead of bordering the border to the Atlantic, we must stop somewhere, as Aristotle said. It would be wise, I believe, to stick to simple principles: the law is the same for all, and applies equally throughout the territory. No one's convinced. Even the Council of State is not certain that the new department is more able to coordinate the actions of the communities in cross-border cooperation than the Greater East region, and it criticizes the organisation that maintains two prefects for a single department. Go understand! [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Rather than creating a community derogating from the common law, we should instead ensure that the law is truly the same for all: in Alsace-Moselle, it is much more urgent to repeal the concordatary provisions dating from Napoleon Bonaparte,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u94	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u95	Don't touch it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u96	What about secularism?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u97	It applies! It's your vision that's obtuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u98	...to finally apply the 1905 law to the whole territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u99	What about the story?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u100	May I speak, Madam President?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u101	Don't worry, Mr. Lachaud, I'm doing what's necessary. Please let the speaker speak! Then you can answer him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u102	Secularity should not be used to periodically make reels to stigmatize a particular person. Secularity is first of all...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u103	Freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u104	... and above all the unity of the sovereign people, who accept the same laws, which they give themselves to themselves as political people, and accept no other, especially religious ones. The Republic, in fact, recognizes only equal citizens, and does not admit any community, religious or other order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u105	No, that's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It is more than time to put an end to this anomaly of history: the separation of churches and the state must apply everywhere in the same way, and the state must stop financing certain cults in certain territories. Republican principles are simpler: equality, everywhere, all the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u107	They'd like us all in the same mold!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u108	Yes, but it's the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u109	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But the abomination does not stop there because, not content with ruining the unity of the nation, this bill is, again, a way of flouting the vote of the people by imposing on them what he had rejected. In 2013, there was a vote on the possibility of such a single community: this project was rejected,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u110	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u111	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ...lack of sufficient participation to approve it, and rejected mostly in the Upper Rhine. We would like to believe in a project to take account of Alsatian specificities. In 2013, there were not enough people to vote. Even today, surveys show that 65% of the population have not heard of this special community, or do not know what it is. I'm willing to bet that if we were to come back today, we would get the same pitiful result. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Let's vote, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u112	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u113	[[Mr Raphaël Schellenberger exclaimed]] The method of circumvention of the decision of the people put in place...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u114	Mr. Schellenberger, you will then speak...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u115	[[Laughs]] Yeah, but he's pissing me off!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Yes, but the word is free!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u117	Oh, it's okay! We don't have a Republic lesson to learn from you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u118	And even less of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u119	Let's go back to our discussion! Go on, Mr. Lachaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u120	[["No! » on the benches of the LR group]] The method of circumventing the people's decision set up for the European Constitutional Treaty is being re-used today. The people do not want it, but, as with the Treaty of Lisbon, they will still have it, because parliamentarians know much better than he does what is good for him! So we are organizing, through an international treaty and a vote in the National Assembly, this very thing that the people had rejected. Untying, perhaps even betrayal! Yes! So what happened to the great democrats who taught us last year about a more representative democracy? Blinded by Berlin and the fuzzy German model, they now want to dispel the unity of the Republic in the name of Franco-German cooperation which they are the only ones to believe in. No, France is not a Federal Republic. No, we don't have much to do with the German Länder, bazaaring our entire republican tradition of communal, departmental and national organization. Last but not least, this bill aims to create social and environmental dumping by introducing competition between territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u121	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u122	Indeed, this text comes directly from the recommendations of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle of 22 January 2019, which aims to increase cross-border cooperation between France and Germany by facilitating "the removal of obstacles in border territories in order to implement cross-border projects. I translate into common French: a free zone is being organized to establish the least-so-called social and environmental.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u123	What the hell is that? You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u124	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] While we are being used for the blah-bla on the "make our planet great again", we are preparing new environmental damage. The first of them would probably be the Grand Contour West of Strasbourg, a new great unnecessary project and imposed, widely contested, with disastrous environmental consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u125	Have you ever been to Alsace?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u126	Unless all national roads are privatized before, to the point where we are! The Treaty still provides for the provision of "appropriate competences, dedicated resources and accelerated procedures (...), particularly in the economic, social, environmental, health, energy and transport fields", while derogations may be granted. It is to bet that, as usual, convergence will be done from the bottom and not from the top. The lowest standards will be chosen to remove barriers, as in any free trade treaty. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] To sum up, this bill is not just a piece of legislation: it is mostly very dangerous. It undermines the unity and indivisibility of the nation by creating different categories of citizens, who would not be subject to the same rules. We reject the progressive and insidious "länderisation" of part of the French departments. We do not agree to comply with the German command, whose new leader of the right would like to remove the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, chosen as a symbol of the peaceful cooperation of the peoples. We do not need these fads to establish respectful and egalitarian cooperation among peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u127	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u128	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] I admit I don't know where to start after hearing so many donkeys! Mr Lachaud, you want to understand Alsace, come to live it rather than learn it on Wikipedia!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u129	Madam President! No insults in the Chamber! Who does he think he is?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u130	For an Alsatian, and proud to be, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u131	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u132	[[Exclaims on various benches]] You have no right to use this vocabulary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u133	Mr. Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u134	That's enough! That's an insult!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u135	Everyone in the Chamber is responsible for what they say.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u136	No, but that's an insult!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u137	I urge you both to pay attention to the words you use about your colleagues...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u138	We can exchange arguments, but we can't make insults! It's intolerable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u139	There is no point in screaming like that in the Chamber, Mr Corbière! Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u140	That's your role, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u141	My role, I take it! I have just reminded each of the speakers and Members present to pay attention to the words they use.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u142	We have the right to disagree with us but not to insult us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u143	Mr. Thiébaut, you can continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u144	The examination of this bill is a major step in a process that I was born two years ago and fully engaged in. I would like to thank my colleagues from La République en marche, Thierry Michels, Martine Wonner and Bruno Studer, for giving me their trust and letting me defend this project. To understand this text, we must first understand Alsace. Alsace has a strong history, identity and traditions. Alsace is above all the pride of its traditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u145	Is it a people?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u146	Yes, Mr. Straumann, from a generic point of view, it is a people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u147	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u148	But from a legal point of view, it is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u149	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u150	Understanding Alsace means understanding its territorial anchor, its playground. But what is he? The natural borders of Alsace are constituted by the Vosges – and not by the Rhine –, by the Black Forest and, later, by Switzerland: this is the Rhine basin. Alsace is at the crossroads of European roads, from east to west, from north to south. Let's make it clear: yes, regional redistribution has left a bitter taste to the Alsatians, who feel that they have lost part of their identity because of the lack of recognition of their specificities. I welcome the representatives of the departments present here; I have engaged with them for two years to carry out this project. I pursued two objectives: first, to return to the institutional contours of Alsace to reaffirm its identity and culture; Then, give him the skills and the means to express himself in his territory and in the Rhine basin, for a project directed towards his neighbours, towards Europe, an innovative project and for the future. We were expected. The framework was set by the President of the Republic, in which the Prime Minister appointed the Prefect Jean-Luc Marx to carry out his mission and present a report, and instructed you, Madam Minister, to accompany us in carrying out this project. I wanted to thank you for your listening, your understanding and the quality of your work, praised by all. The bill before us today is a continuation of a joint statement with all local authorities – both departments and the region – and the Government, within the framework set by the President. The priority was to respond to major national reforms before undertaking major territorial reform. The draft law that we are considering gives new powers to this new European community of Alsace – powers that the previous Alsace region did not have –: the transfer of roads, which will allow to introduce a tax or a charge and thus to regulate traffic; strengthening cross-border expertise – I welcome developments in the health field, which is a sensitive subject – the development of plurilingualism, particularly bilingualism, in the regional language, whether it is Alsatian or German. This is the purpose of this bill: to enable the community to have a clear voice. On the other hand, I recognize that this bill does not constitute alpha and omega: it is only the beginning of an answer. The Government, through the voice of the Prime Minister, made this clear by presenting Act II of the quinquennium: we will go further in territorial reforms, to bring more flexibility and flexibility to communities. There is certainly the right to differentiation, but there is also the reform being prepared by Sébastien Lecornu, expected of local elected officials. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We begin this act II with a bill that clearly answers this question. I also thank the Government for having responded by law: it is a strong recognition of the Alsatian specificities as well as the expectations of Alsatians and Alsatians. Madam Minister, thank you: I am sure that the discussions we will have in the Chamber will allow us to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u151	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u152	Alsace, this territory of the French Republic whose name speaks to all. Alsace, which geography and history have always placed at the heart of Europe. Finally, Alsace, which is seen as a European gateway. This region, our region, has always been open and innovative by mobilising its culture both Latin and German to get the most out of each of these influences. It is a land of territorial innovation, but also social, political and economic. This ability to draw from the bottom of itself the best that man can offer to society has suffered a lot over the course of history. In front of a monument to the dead, where in Alsace there is never the inscription "Deaths for France", each Alsatian family relives the history of a region that was at the heart of European divisions until the Second World War. From 1870 to 1945, Alsatians were able to change their nationality five times. From this story came a desire to innovate. The laws of decentralization, since the 1970s, enabled Alsace to put this innovation into practice. From decentralised management of European funds to regional express trains, Alsace has always driven territorial innovation. From 2010 to 2013, Alsace wanted to open a new way of decentralization by being the only region to seize the opportunity to merge, by referendum, the regional community and the departmental authorities, in order to create a single community. I keep the memory of this period of a founding political commitment because this challenge exceeded all divisions. It was an opportunity to move beyond the usual divisions to bring together a message of commitment for the future. With dozens of young political activists committed to the left and right, we had gathered to defend this project of hope for Alsatian youth. Unfortunately, although nearly 58 per cent of voters expressed support for the project, the conditions for the success of the referendum, as defined by law, were not met. This did not prevent an evolution of the territorial organization in France, this time without a referendum, without consulting the Alsatians, without consulting the local authorities and disregarding the international treaties by which France is bound. Thus, in 2015, François Hollande, Manuel Valls and the Socialist Party decided, with a gum and a pencil, to remove Alsace from the map. This decision resulted in a deep injury. This injury to Alsace created a need to correct this unilateral and contemptuous act of the then government and central power towards the Alsatians. As early as 2015, the departmental councils of Haut-Rhin, under the chairmanship of Eric Straumann and then Brigitte Klinkert, as well as that of Bas-Rhin, under the chairmanship of Frédéric Bierry, began a process of rapprochement. [[Mr Schellenberger speaks in Alsatian]] This mobilization led last November to the signing of a joint declaration in Matignon, in your presence, Madam Minister, that of the Prime Minister, the Minister responsible for transport and the presidents of local executive bodies. This joint statement, on the basis of which this text has been drawn up, is only a compromise that does not really satisfy anyone. Requests to leave the Greater East region or to create a territorial community with a special status were rejected from the outset by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. The conclusion is therefore necessarily lukewarm because built on an incomprehensible principle for the Alsatians. In Alsatian, it looks like cold coffee. Thus, from the Government's point of view, it makes the legitimate request of the Alsatians a means of justifying the forthcoming constitutional reform and the establishment of a right to differentiation. It must be noted that, far from serving Alsace, this logic has led the Government to refuse the status of a community with special status for Alsace, which would have had much more meaning than an administrative construction which does not clearly state itself. So this bill cannot be read as a reflection of what the Alsatians want as I was able to hear in committee, first because the principle of representative democracy, to which I am particularly attached, necessarily leads us to rule out these arguments of authority in order to prefer technical and political arguments built on the basis of reasoning and contradiction; Second, if the Government had wanted to listen to the Alsatians, it would have paid much more attention to the clear formulations of several polls that consistently demonstrate that the Greater East has no coherence that allows citizens to take ownership of the stakes of this territory and therefore prompts them to continue to wish to leave this great region, more than 80 per cent and more than four years after the creation of this superstructure. Nevertheless, if this project does not satisfy Alsace's ambition, it allows some progress that will be useful to our region. The first and most important is the transfer of unlicensed national roads and motorways. This transfer must enable Alsace to better manage mobility problems in its territory tomorrow, which is clearly specific. The scale of the territory, in this respect, is the Rhine basin. Between the Vosges in the west and the Black Forest in the east, this basin is very constrained. The establishment of the LKW Maut in Germany has deported many trucks to the Alsatian roads, which are now saturated and very accidental.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u153	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u154	If this transfer is desired and alone justifies our support for this text, it does not yet have the necessary guarantees. It is therefore essential that, in our discussions, we are able to better target the amount of the transfer of loads, in particular by introducing a coefficient of outdatedness in the calculation and by actuating the creation by law of an ecological charge for heavy goods vehicles proportional to their use of Alsatian road infrastructures. These two points are indispensable for us. This text will also somewhat promote the transmission of bilingualism in our territory. I have heard in committee and read in the amendments tabled at the sitting that some colleagues want to make it clear that bilingualism in Alsace is done with the German language. Like you, Madam Minister, I am against it. Indeed, I consider that the current framework is largely sufficient and respects what is Alsatian. [[Mr Schellenberger then utters an expression in Alsatian]] If it is an German dialect, its use has changed a lot over time. When Alsace was German, this dialect was not well seen, although his speech had previously justified the annexation of Alsace. But upon returning to France, it became chic to speak French, and beyond the bullying suffered during school for having spoken, that is, "as the beak is pushed upon us", speaking Alsatian gradually became a shame. I was born in 1990 in my village, I am one of the few classmates whose mother tongue is still Alsatian and who have learned French at the school of the Republic. This leads me to say with conviction that Alsatian is not a public language. It is the language of the intimate, the language of the family unit, the language spoken at the bistro or at the workshop. In public, one speaks French and this character may also allow certain nuances in Alsatian that do not exist in Molière's language. This language is also the vector for the transmission of traditions such as the Rhine satire which does not spare politics during the Carnival season. The whole history of Alsace, as well as its whole future, are built in its ability to establish ties with neighbouring territories. This text gives the future European Community of Alsace competence to create an Alsatian scheme of cross-border cooperation. We will have the opportunity to return to this debate in the course of the discussion. Nevertheless, I want to break an idea received: Alsace is not just looking to the East. It has always been opened at 360 degrees and intends to remain open. Thus, when the territory of Belfort asked the department of Haut-Rhin, dear Eric Straumann, to refurbish several road intersections in order to facilitate access to the Rhine of the electric turbines produced by General Electric in Belfort, it took less than a year between the deliberation of the departmental councils and the reception of the works. Unfortunately, this effort by the Alsatian and local communities was not enough to stop the company that dismantled this jewel of French industry led by Emmanuel Macron, then economic advisor to François Hollande.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u155	Thank you Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u156	But when such projects are cross-border, it is much more complicated. Thus this competence will allow Alsace to open up to 360 degrees and become the real bridge between France, Germany and Switzerland, which we desperately lack. This text, far from closing Alsace on itself, is on the contrary an ode to the difference, this difference which must lead us to respect and dialogue, this difference which, assumed, leads us to better recognize our similarities and our will to build together. What a pleasure it was last week to talk on WhatsApp with a few colleagues, young Republican MPs, in our respective dialects, without us really being able to understand each other, but remembering what brought us together, what we committed ourselves to: France! Madam Minister, the rapporteur, I look forward to taking this text seriously. Alsace is the cradle of humanism, thanks to its positioning as a land of exchanges and encounters, this humanism which questions above all the place and respect of man in its environment. In addressing this discussion I wish that the identity of Alsace, its will to be systematically in dialogue, construction and compromise rather than in opposition and violence is a force, a force that inspires respect and that leads our assembly to trust the future European community of Alsace and to equip it with the necessary skills and means that will enable it to serve the French project better and better by giving the best of its dual culture. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] Long live Alsace, live the Republic and live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u157	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u158	In speaking at this rostrum, I think first of all with great emotion to my compatriots, Alsatians and Alsatians, to their expectations, to their hopes repeatedly disappointed. I am also thinking, and above all, of future generations, because they will really measure the scope of this text. The creation of a European community in Alsace is the reparation of an injustice, it is also the recognition of a historical specificity but it is above all a renaissance and a chance to finally take our future in hand and to play a leading and pioneering role in European integration. It must be borne in mind that Alsace is an administrative and legal heritage different from that of the rest of France. The Concordat still in force in the region has become a symbol, that of an Alsace attached to its history, to its values, symbol of a multi-faith, tolerant and caring Alsace. Local law has become the symbol of a strong Alsace of its German periods, an Alsace in advance of social protections; the symbol of an Alsace that has been able to preserve part of its history and be able to make live in harmony the different cultural influences to which it has always been subjected. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Alsace is a language, it is an accent, object of bad imitations here, of mockery there, but it is a living language that tells the history of the region and its inhabitants. Language is an identity vector, it is a symbol of belonging to a singular community. These are our roots because we talked to our parents. Alsace is therefore not only French. Despite its visceral attachment to France and its love marks, Alsace remains Alsatian and European as much as it is French. This is all that needs to be borne in mind in order to understand what Alsatians and Alsatians aspire to, citizens who have too often felt forgotten and even despised. Yet they have never turned their backs on this France to which they have chosen fully and freely to join. Alsace has given France so much: Victor Schœlcher abolishing slavery; Jean-Baptiste Kléber led the French armies to Egypt; An industry leading the industrial revolution in Europe, which was born in Mulhouse, the French Manchester, or Tomi Ungerer whose works are shared by so many schoolchildren from all over the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u159	He was against the Great East!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u160	In return, France's attachment to Alsace is no longer to be proved: flying to the aid of their brothers from beyond Vosges, the soldiers of the Republic fought for the liberation of the region on numerous occasions, while the elected representatives made Strasbourg the symbol of this new Europe of peace and understanding between the peoples. [["Congratulation! » and loud applause on the benches of the LR group]] Even if the Alsatian heritage and identity are strong and alive, it would be a mistake to address the Alsatian issue through its identity and administrative aspect. The question of the maintenance of Alsace in the Greater East region is raised daily. Certainly the creation of a European community in Alsace is only a first step. Thank you, fellow Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u161	Meet us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u162	But this question cannot in any way be an end in itself: the answers that we have to give to our compatriots – it is certainly our greatest responsibility – must respond to concrete problems and improve their way of life. ECA must make and will make improvements in terms of mobility, bilingualism, employment, health, associative life and international influence. There must clearly be a front and a post-CEA! Alsace is only part of the Greater East region for four years and a large part of the problems are older, the ills are deeper. Alsace lags behind in bilingual education. For example, 40% of children are in bilingual classes in the Basque Country, compared to just 17% in Alsace, yet the Strasbourg Academy has been piloting bilingual classes since 1992! In the same way, Alsace is the region where unemployment has grown the most in twenty years! [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] To make the Alsatians believe that the exit from the Grand Est region would be the solution to all the ills of Alsace is illusory. It is even in some respects lying, in any case clearly demagogue. To meet the major challenges ahead, we need tools; we need new and adapted skills; we need commitment and will. Let us begin, ladies and gentlemen, by exercising the skills we have obtained. Let us do them well, let us exercise them effectively, let us exercise them better than anyone else, and when we have demonstrated our results through our work, our hard work and our talent, who can then refuse to entrust us with even more skills, all those that we have the ambition to exercise with or outside the Great East if it is necessary? Through this bill, we will take over the issues of bilingualism, tourism, road management and cross-border cooperation. During the debate I hope that we will be able to obtain details on the Alsace brand, on learning, in which we have proved our worth, on the local economy or on sports and cultural federations. While some federations see it as an interest in the level of competition, others suffer from a decline in the number of their members as their volunteers become discouraged. Do not expect the MODEM group to overbid and demagogue the so-called Matignon agreements. Our proposals for amendments are in line with these agreements. It will not be for us to betray the will of the local representatives, the presidents of the two departments and that of the Greater East region. It must be understood that this bill is the result of a long journey by the Alsatians to recognize their specificities. Without ever giving up anything, they have expressed their wills, often in one sense, without even being heard. Let us remember the missed appointments: the April 2013 referendum first, which ended in a failure. This political fiasco has come to defeat all opinion polls. Between the disunion of the Bas-Rhin and the Haut-Rhin, renunciations, denials, political calculations, what could have been a turning point in the destiny of Alsace has become the symbol of collective failure and especially of the political class. Alsace, disbanded and disunited, was then only an easy and defenceless prey at the mercy of the NOTRE law: promulgated on August 7, 2015, this law meant the disappearance and denial of Alsace even in its smallest powers. But on this first World Day for lovers of Alsace, I have very good news for you: Alsace and the Alsatians are and will remain immortal! Today, Alsace is reborn thanks to the presidents of the three communities – I would like to pay special tribute to Brigitte Klinkert, president of the Haut-Rhin department, whose vision and consistency have overcome all the traps and who has been able to give substance to this project despite the tumult of the negotiations and the pressure of certain public opinions. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] But, it must be said here in complete objectivity, if Alsace is to be reborn before us, it is thanks to the will and commitment of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and, of course, Jacqueline Gourault, who has spared no effort. I would like to thank her here publicly and from the bottom of my heart for the work done. The Alsatians will be grateful to you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u164	This text embodies more than just a renaissance: it is a real chance for Alsace, France and Europe. The European ambition of the European Community of Alsace has not escaped anyone. Tomorrow's Europe needs pioneers to try. With the European Community of Alsace, Alsace and its Alsatians will inevitably be! To make Alsace the prefiguration of what Europe could be in terms of integration, in terms of fiscal and social rapprochement, in terms of bilateral cooperation, is this the real ambition of this bill! It is this totally European area that we can build thanks to this text, thanks to the transfer of cross-border competences! It is this meeting that we must not miss to assure the Alsatians and Alsatians to be precursors! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] This innovative Alsace, laboratory of ideas and experiences, in advance of its time and contributing to the European project, it is this Alsace that we must also make reborn! It is with this ambition and with faith in our collective capacities that we will vote for this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u165	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u166	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u167	We can not be Alsatian and love Alsace. I wanted to start this way because I sometimes feel that this debate brings together mainly Alsatians. However, when we talk about the Republic, it is all the parliamentarians who are concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u168	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u169	Bringing two departments together to create a new community is not an anomalous decision. In the specific case of the future European Community of Alsace, it was two departments that wished to cross this course. That is why, in these circumstances, I would like to reiterate in the preamble a principle to which we will be committed: to respect the territorial initiative, even if we must refrain from considering it as the majority expression of the citizens of Alsace. After the failure of the April 2013 referendum and following the protests arising from the creation of the Grand East region in 2016, many elected representatives of the Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin put forward the idea of re-establishing a territorial community around this Alsatian territory whose identity cannot be contested. Thus, a concordant deliberation of the two departmental councils formalized this desire to merge. A joint declaration known as Matignon set the general framework and a decree in the Council of State issued last February endorsed its creation. It is in this context that the bill is being considered today. This new star in the institutional galaxy, although called Community, will therefore be a department of common law – you recalled earlier, Madam Minister – but we refuse to call it department of Alsace. At the same time, the Government announced that it would maintain two prefectures, two administrative departments. In the end, you create a new institutional object in France: more quite a department – it is not called the department of Alsace – nor a region since the perimeter of the Grand Est region remains as well as its prerogatives. So let's admit that in the concert of recurrent criticisms addressed to the mille-feuille or in the face of the complexity of a landscape made up of four local echelons, you add a little opacity to the French institutional landscape! Basically, it will be up to the Alsatians themselves to say in a few years whether this CEA has really changed their lives. Those who cared for the dream of getting out of the Greater East region are therefore disappointed. It remains to be seen whether those who, together with ECA, aspired to prefigure a new act of decentralization will be fully satisfied. Solving issues related to the culture of a territory, its identity, its history, cannot be more a matter of communication than of law. Instead, the baptismal name chosen belongs to the first register. You have chosen to name this new entity "European Community of Alsace", a name that will not fail to raise questions. In fact, the Council of State was not mistaken: it stresses that it is "likely to create a double disregard for the legal nature of the new community" and that the "European" epithet does not refer to any particular category or regime in legal terms, and even seems to misrepresent the granting of extraterritorial status to this new department. Let us now talk about the substance of this bill and its content. Many border territories are likely to follow these discussions closely and question the value of engaging in a similar approach. Whether it is health cooperation, facilitating the teaching of the language of the neighbouring country and regional languages or guaranteeing the implementation of an eco-tax, there is no shortage of possibilities for improving this text. Thus, we propose to allow the future Community to draw up a framework programme for cross-border cooperation to simplify the conclusion of cross-border initiatives. We also propose to allow the department of Alsace to negotiate teacher exchange agreements with the neighbouring Land of Baden-Württemberg. This is not a question of exempting national education from its obligations – efforts are made in the text – but simply of facilitating external interventions, complementary to education. These proposals take into account the specificities of a territory which will have to justify this marriage a posteriori, a union which the Alsatian populations will validate only if the basket of the bride is sufficiently filled. From this point of view, it seems to us necessary to leave open prospects for deepening because the text before us seems to fall short of what the two departmental authorities have hoped for and, above all, because Alsace deserves better and more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u170	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u171	The establishment of a territorial community with a special status that would integrate the competences of both departments and the region has been a long process. There will be no reduction of the administrative millet...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u172	It will come.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u173	The socialists have changed a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u174	... and cross-border cooperation is not really at the heart of this text while the departments wanted France to be able to rely on Alsace to consolidate its place in Europe. The same applies to the transfer of the national road network. Guarantees should be provided very quickly on the implementation of vehicle taxation of more than 3.5 tonnes by the European community. As you have understood, we support the approach of the territories that aim to come closer and merge in order to respond more effectively to the challenges of tomorrow. However, we regret the gap between intentions and the few new fields that this text opens. This provided an opportunity to prefigure new directions that would reassure the maltreated departments in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u175	You misled them, and the communes with them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u176	It is a missed opportunity to open construction sites, launch real experiments and demonstrate that this territorial level remains relevant. For all these reasons, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u177	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u178	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u179	Louis XIV said to Colbert de Croissy, just after the Treaty of Westphalia, on 23 October 1648, which for the first time integrated Alsace into the kingdom of France: "Don't touch the things of Alsace". The Government of François Hollande would have been well advised to follow this advice when it decided to integrate Alsace into the Greater East region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u180	For sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u181	We certainly have no problems with our friends in Champagne-Ardenne...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u182	We love them very much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u183	... or Lorraine, with whom we have shared a common history...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u184	Long live Lorraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u185	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u186	...but Alsace has a specific identity. Alsace is a historical reality, it is a geographical reality, it is a cultural reality, it is a linguistic reality...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u187	Is it a people?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u188	...and it had to be part of a territorial community. However, this was not the case in the Greater East region, which had removed it as such. Since it is necessary to pay Caesar what belongs to Caesar, we must pay tribute to President Emmanuel Macron and the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u189	But you won't be a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u190	...because it is with this majority that Alsace will be reborn in the form of a territorial collectivity. Of course, we could have hoped that this community would have a formal status, even if, as we will see in the discussion, it has most of the attributes. Laurent Furst said it excellently, but I would say that in the glass it is necessary to see the three-quarters full rather than the empty quarter. The important thing, indeed, is what the law will change in practice for the Alsatians! First, it will reborn Alsace in the form of a local authority, which will not only be able to embody Alsace but will defend its specificities...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u191	His particularities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u192	...the local law, the local social security system, the Concordat and, of course, the weight it weighs to support them. Then we're going to get the highway management back, and that's not nothing. Our citizens, every day, risk their lives on the A 35, stuck in truck caravans, simply because on the German A 5 at thirty kilometers, is collected the LKW Maut, while no tax or fee is levied on the A 35. Moreover, as regards new competences, cross-border cooperation, it is not nothing either! It is on them that the prosperity of tomorrow depends, as well as the construction of concrete projects, as we have done with our Swiss friends with EuroAirport or with Rheinports, with our Swiss and German friends. It is they who will create the employment and prosperity of Alsace in the 21st century, while its unemployment rate has more than doubled in the last fifteen years. It is also language teaching, since it will not only be possible to benefit from complementary teaching but also to recruit teachers where the rectorates once had a great deal of difficulty in finding German-speaking teachers. Here too, we will be able to bring concrete things to our fellow citizens, which will allow us to speak the language of our neighbours better, so that we can build projects with them and create jobs. This is what we must say today to the Alsatians: this project will bring you concrete things! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [["Congratulation! »on the benches of the LR group]] Let us say this: it is only a stage but an important step which, because this is the ultimate objective, will have to allow us to leave the Grand East region one day and to reform this unique community of Alsace for which we fought. We do not deny anything, but we consider this project an important step because it is the renaissance of Alsace, because new skills will help the Alsatians on a daily basis. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Bruno Fuchs also applauds]] That is why we will vote on this bill. We are about to debate this in a courageous, determined and, let us not hide it, with a pleasure that we will not squander, this project being important above all for Alsace and for the Alsatians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u193	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u194	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Bruno Fuchs also applauds]] The European Community of Alsace which we are discussing today, the result of discussions between Matignon, the Grand East region and the departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin, will make it possible to return to the Alsatians a level which will be their own following the disappearance of the Alsace Regional Council within a Grand East ensemble – against which I then voted For, yes, the Alsatian elected representatives and the population in its vast majority have never accepted the disappearance of the Alsace region: petitions with tens of thousands of signatories, demonstrations, symbolic acts, like the red and white gags on the departmental council of the Haut-Rhin, are commonplace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u195	The Lorraine region has also disappeared!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u196	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Alsatian demand to leave the Greater East region has lost no support. Three surveys conducted since 2017, respectively by the CSA Institute in April 2017, the FIFG in February 2018 and BVA in April 2019, reveal that 80 to 85% of Alsatians are asking for a return to an Alsace region outside the Great East. I will say to Mr Lachaud: let us hold a referendum. For my part, I am quite in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u197	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u198	However, I would like to recall that, in the referendum of 2013, and contrary to what our colleague from the group, France, insoubted by Bastien Lachaud, a majority of Alsatians – 57.65% – expressed in favour of a single community in Alsace, bringing together – as was then done in Corsica – the two departments and the regional council. However, for such a project, drastic conditions had been laid down: to see the light of day, this unique community had to obtain the consent of more than 25% of the registered voters, which was not the case. Why such a rule? Had they had to gather the votes of 25 per cent of those registered, many departmental councillors would never have been elected. Some of them were only with the votes of 10% of those registered! So we can ask ourselves: why did you set this specific rule? This legitimate demand for the creation of a single community is rooted in the trauma that our Alsatian and Alsatian friends have suffered as a result of the disappearance of the Alsace Regional Council without at any time having been consulted on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u199	Nor have the Lorrains been consulted on the disappearance of their own!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u200	No more than some Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u201	The 2015 reform, which led to the creation of large regions by the merger of certain regional councils, closed, as always, I would say, on a corner table, has nowhere produced the promised effect: the government of the time had claimed the benefit to be expected from the constitution of large regions within a European whole, while everyone knows that it is not the perimeter of the regions that counts but their competence and their financial resources. But it must be noted that France is the most centralized state in Europe and has the least confidence in its territories and local elected representatives. The Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe condemned him in March 2016 for his democratic shortcomings during this regional redistribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u202	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u203	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u204	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Article 5 of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which provides for consultation with local authorities, has indeed not been respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u205	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u206	The regional redistribution of 2015 will have given rise to many frustrations throughout the country, especially in Alsace, where the inhabitants have constantly expressed their anger. I could also mention Brittany, where the Britons have been calling for the Loire-Atlantique to join their region for decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u207	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u208	Here too, the populations have never been consulted, and none of the recent attempts to obtain even a consultation of the inhabitants of the Loire-Atlantique has been successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u209	We're supporting you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u210	I would like here to welcome the initiative of the association Bretagne reunited, whose petition in favour of a consultation on reunification, in the department of Loire-Atlantique of course alone, collected 105000 signatures. Members of this association also left last week for Paris on a bicycle to bring this petition to the President of the Republic, to the Prime Minister and to our Assembly by calling for a referendum: I would like to point this out to Mr Lachaud. In this dossier of the European Community of Alsace as in many others, one is struck by the ultra-Jacobine vision of the state when it deals with territories. First of all, as we have seen in committee, it is still difficult to talk about the different peoples that make up the Republic, such as the Breton people, the Corsican people or the Alsatian people. What are the fears of the Government and the majority, like their predecessors? It is foolish that people in our country should still be forced to deny themselves and that they should be imposed on them a unique identity and belonging. If the right does not recognize the people, it is not the people that must be changed, but the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u211	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u212	The majority of Alsatians believe that the creation of the European Community of Alsace is not a sufficient response to their expectations. Indeed, the competences of a department are not comparable to those of the regional council which they lost in 2015, were they timidly strengthened in the field of cross-border cooperation – an area in which it will be necessary to pass under the caudine forks of the region – of the teaching of the regional language – it will be necessary, there, to pass under those of the rectorate –, of tourism and the management of roads and motorways. Some will say that we are here in a typical case of differentiation in favour of Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u213	And it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u214	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, the result is, for the time being, very tenuous. We hope that this bill will only be a step towards an Alsace which, like Corsica, will have the powers both of the department and of the region. Well, that's the wish I'm making.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u215	At least you're consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u216	Other departments have indicated their willingness to merge, such as the two departments of Savoie or Maine-Anjou, those of Mayenne, Sarthe and Maine-et-Loire. We must be able to facilitate these mergers as was done in Corsica. In Brittany too, a region which has not merged with any other and which is still waiting for the Loire-Atlantique to be attached to it, a debate is being launched on the creation of a single territorial collectivity which would arise from the merger of the departmental councils and the regional council. I'm in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u217	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u218	On the other hand, in other territories, especially in areas that have become very large, such as Occitanie, the department retains its legitimacy. It often corresponds to former states in the Middle Ages. This is the case for the Aveyron pour le Rouergue, the Lot pour le Quercy or the Dordogne pour le Périgord.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u219	[[Smile]] Long live the Revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u220	Do you dispute his contribution and that of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u221	The Republic, the one that defends, we know it: it is the one that formed the infernal columns of General Turreau. I'll explain this to you one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u222	And you're defending the Catholic and royal army?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u223	Mr. Corbière, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u224	This is a deputy who defends the Catholic and royal army in the gallery!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u225	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] I'm not defending her, but if the Republic is burning everything in its path and slaughtering a whole population, then you can keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u226	Please, MP Molac, you are in the gallery.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u227	It is another Republic that I expect: the one that respects the people. Respect for human rights is essential for all, and of course for the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u228	Are you Chouan now?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u229	Colleagues, don't you dare! Mr Corbière, here are several times you interrupt the speaker: let him speak. You can then intervene if you wish. Mr Molac, you have the floor alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u230	We should welcome the transfer to ECA of the management of unlicensed roads and motorways: we also call for such a transfer to be made to all regions. We support the proposal to allow ECA to introduce a heavy duty eco-tax and would like to see this extended to all regions on a voluntary basis. It is the very essence of the principle of differentiation that public action must adapt as closely as possible to territorial realities, not the other way round. If Brittany, a peninsular region, did not wish to see the ecotax applied on its territory, it was because it considered it to be penalising for its economic fabric and its production. The same is not true for border regions such as Alsace, which support important international road traffic and suffer from the many negative externalities. To allow this region to decide whether or not to introduce this tax is, in our view, the right method, even if the route of the order does not seem to us the best. As regards competence in the teaching of regional languages, the approach is interesting, although in practice we doubt that this development significantly increases the number of pupils in bilingual courses, given the difficulties currently encountered. In our view, it would be appropriate to generalize the provision of regional language education, on the basis of the Corsican model, in order to enable students to attain equal competence in the regional language and in French, including immersion. On the other hand, all action to promote economic development would still be inaccessible to Alsace, whereas it is a large industrial territory which is economically linked to the German neighbour and in which experiments could be carried out. Similarly, the transfer of new competences in cross-border relations is a good thing and other border regions would benefit from it as well: I am thinking of Corsica, which could establish closer links with Sardinia. Ladies and gentlemen, while this bill is a welcome first step, since the status quo is not defensible, we must hear the request of the Alsatians for the restoration of a region in its own right, with all the relevant powers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Therefore, despite the important symbolic character of the re-establishment of a political institution in Alsace, it must be noted that this will be a kind of super-department with new limited powers. Do not therefore believe that the Alsace subject is exhausted with this bill: it remains before us for many more years and it will be necessary for the people to be consulted by referendum and to be able to express themselves on their destiny.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u231	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u232	The Battle of Alsace is just beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u233	[[Smile]] Dear colleague, you are the sixteenth Alsatian MP and the best of us. Long live Brittany!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u234	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u235	I admit that there is some discomfort with the exchange that has just taken place here and I would not like my comments in turn to ignite the House. I have seen well in our Alsatian colleagues, both through the lexical field of their remarks and their reactions at once, the pain that was theirs and the humiliation that they felt: far from me the idea of reopening this wound and reviving this pain that I know is still present. It is not as the Norman heir of the Hair Gaul that I speak to you, nor by referring to the cradles of Renaissance humanism of which you are, and of which we are, I imagine, on all benches, guardians. All this to tell you very modestly that I share the view of the colleague who considered it a mistake to address this issue from a strictly identity point of view. Indeed, there could be as many identities as Members sitting on these benches! The only reference that will guide me in this subject is the French nation. The founding act remains for us the Revolution of 1789, whose values irrigate both our principles and our efforts to translate them into action. This bill aims to create a new department, the famous European Community of Alsace bringing together the departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin. First of all, one can only wonder about the advisability of legislating today on the Alsatian case, four years after the adoption of the NOTRE law and the redistribution of regions, of which you rightly stressed how much he had ignored local democracy, and when the future constitutional reform must precisely provide for the conditions for a right to differentiation – which, Madam Minister, we will oppose. Then, this evolution is presented as the fruit of a consensus of the Alsatian elected officials around a desire of Alsace. All in all, it is not prohibited to believe that this project is intended to reintroduce the one which, for the reasons set out, could not be completed in April 2013. By now using a procedure that no longer explicitly requires the consent of voters, it is still a matter of returning by law to the 2013 referendum decision. That is a problem for us. Moreover, the Government wants the new department to be called the European Community of Alsace. The Council of State rightly notes that this name is likely to lead to a double disregard for the legal nature of the new community. On the one hand, this name suggests that a community with a particular status is created, whereas it is only a merger of two departments. On the other hand, the European epithet, which does not correspond in legal terms to any particular category or regime and which could in any case be applied to any territorial collectivity of the Republic, seems to erroneously refer to the granting of extraterritorial status to this new department. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What is most worrying is that this double scorn risks insidiously preparing public opinion for federalism at European level, what some call "European integration". With regard to the new powers to be granted to the new community, I have said that they prefigure the principle of differentiation. We are opposed to it. The right to differentiation, which does not find thanks to our eyes, amplifies territorial dissonance. Behind the appearance of difference is in reality the desire to hide inequalities and territorial social and fiscal injustices, without seeking to reduce them. This is clearly a disengagement on the part of the State. Colleagues, you have referred to the rise in unemployment in the Alsatian region. In our view, this falls within the competence of the State, with its economic and social implications. The one and indivisible nature of our decentralized Republic leads us to oppose such a development, which would reflect the disengagement of the State on major issues. Technically, the text provides for the transfer to the European Community of Alsace, from the date of its creation, of all national roads and unlicensed motorways located on its territory. One cannot speak of the attribution of a new jurisdiction, since the departments already own a large part of the public road and exercise the related powers. On the other hand, this is an unprecedented transfer of ownership, since all motorways so far belonged to the state's public road estate. The joint declaration justified this transfer by the need to give the new community the means to curb road traffic in its territory, in particular the traffic of heavy goods vehicles, whose flows have shifted to the French side of the border since the introduction of an over-Rhin kilometric charge. While cross-border cooperation is already a reality with regard to motorway traffic, this transfer raises concerns about the future disengagement of the State from the management of large infrastructure. In addition, no coordination with the neighbouring departments and with the Grand Est region is foreseen, while the decisions of the new department could have significant consequences for the neighbouring territories. The new community intends to play a key role through expanded identity skills: cross-border action, promotion of regional languages, tourism. In our view, this may complicate the local administrative millefeuille and lead to overlaps or discrepancies in the management of skills. This merger will thus have effects on the Grand Est region, the metropolis of Strasbourg, the public authorities and institutions of inter-communal cooperation of Alsace, which will be able to be granted delegations of competences, for example concerning the departmental management centres, the departmental fire and rescue services and the deconcentrated services of the State. In addition, one may wonder how the new community will be able to carry out its missions without economic intervention competence, which the August 2015 law has withdrawn from the departments for the benefit of the regions and the metropolises. The use of the line manager's technique and skill delegation agreements will complicate the management of these competences and may lead to political and legal conflicts, as well as a significant complexity for users, for whom the distribution of different competences will become completely illegible. In addition, let us highlight the enlightening opinion of the Council of State, which has made many criticisms, which, until now, have not been taken into account. It therefore considers that, while the place of regional languages and Franco-German bilingualism constitute a particular characteristic of this territory, which may give rise to a difference in treatment, the scheme envisaged is not of a normative nature since it does not alter the current state of law, which already allows the State to undertake by conventional means with the authorities concerned to recruit additional staff, including by contract. On the other hand, with a view to the creation of the new department, the bill contains several powers to legislate by ordinance. However, the use of orders does not seem to allow us to fully understand all of the legislative adjustments called for by consolidation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and the Communist elected will oppose this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u236	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u237	[[Smile]] [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, today, in a heat worthy of an Alsatian state, we are examining the draft law on the competences of the European Community of Alsace. This bill is the result of a strong local expectation and the joint declaration of 29 October 2018. As Mosellan, I can testify to this desire of Alsace. Moreover, Alsace and Moselle share a common history – no one can dispute it. This text therefore reflects the recognition of the will of the Alsatians to restore unity to their territory, a unit that can express the historical and geographical reality of this territory within the Republic, after the failure of the referendum of 7 April 2013 on the creation of a unique Alsatian community resulting from the merger of the regional council of Alsace and the two departments of Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin, and following the constitution of the Grand-Est region, on 1 January 2016. This approach reflects a strong expectation from local populations about their place in the new Greater East region, which has been expressed at regular intervals. This reform is in line with regional coherence, to which all stakeholders have committed themselves. The aim is to ensure the sustainability of the Greater East region, within its present limits, without calling into question any of the cooperation with the other departments of the region, particularly in economic matters, to respect the great balances of the law of 7 August 2015 on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRe law, relating to the distribution of competences between the different territorial authorities, which amounts to preserving the competences of the region and those of the communal bloc, and to ensure that the European Community of Alsace is given additional and specific powers, which distinguish it from the other departments of common law. Compliance with this framework results in the balance of the proposed reform, in line with the patiently built consensus on the ground. The Prime Minister recently recalled that, with regard to the two departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin, the Head of State had told the elected representatives of these departments that "if the regional map is confirmed in its current definition, a development of the two Alsatian departments within the Greater East region remains nevertheless possible".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u238	And it's only one man who decides on his own?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u239	This bill is based on a principle: respect for the joint declaration of Matignon. The Senate has profoundly changed the original text in several respects, which is essential to the balance of reform. For the sake of compromise, the Law Commission of the National Assembly has re-established the framework laid down by the joint declaration of 29 October 2018, while supplementing certain provisions so that the agreement reached between local actors, for everything within the scope of the law, is included in this draft law. Although in other departments there are regular demands for the place of everyone in the new region, it is not in the general interest of any deconstructing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u240	And he's a former socialist talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u241	Will you allow me to pursue, Mr. Straumann? We must be patient until the new Greater East region is established on a daily basis. That is why, and we must insist on it, this bill is just the preamble to the right to differentiation. This right, which will be affirmed in the context of the constitutional reform,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u242	It's not done yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u243	... will allow each territory to assert its particularities. This will, of course, require all local actors to get around the table, with a single interest in their territory and its inhabitants. There can be no desire for differentiation which is expressed against the opinion of the citizens. This will enable other departments in the Greater East region to demonstrate their differences, strengths and commonalities within a shared community. We share a lot in this great region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u244	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u245	Hence this need for differentiation on cross-border issues, tourism or economic attractiveness. The Moselle and the Meurthe-et-Moselle, with the A31 motorway, as well as the two departments of the Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin, with the A35 motorway, are busy European corridors. Moreover, the Lorrains have been forerunners in the matter of differentiation, with the Sillon lorrain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u246	Long live Lorraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u247	The Moselle department will be able to assert its status as a Eurodepartment, the Meurthe-et-Moselle its proximity to the Vosges and the Meuse. History shows us that territories have their particularities, identities and cultural differences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u248	Anyway, you like Lorraine...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u249	During the examination of the text in committee, some opposition colleagues claimed that the text was a preamble to the release of Alsace from the Grand Est region. That's not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u250	That's not what others of your colleagues say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u251	I undertake to follow up on the implementation of this text. This one translates Matignon's agreement, and just Matignon's agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u252	You commit yourself, but you won't be here forever!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u253	In conclusion, this bill does not in any way call into question the stability of the Greater East region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u254	You feel the anxiety pierce...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u255	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It was lucidity that prompted politicians to find a consensus so that Alsace could live in the Great East.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u256	Here? Mr. Thiébaut applauds that phrase?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u257	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u258	This afternoon's debates made me want to read the first pages of Gaël Faye's book, Petit pays, in order to move away from this dialectic France-Alsace-Lorraine. A particular sentence touched me a lot: "Habiting means being fleshly melted into the topography of a place, the an fracture of the environment. I believe deeply in this rooting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u259	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u260	I believe deeply in this attachment to a place, a history, a geography. First of all, Mr. Furst, I would like to express to you the immense respect I have for your account of the region you have in your heart, as well as for the measure you have put in your remarks. I know the fire that animates you, and yet you have been able to show a great deal of modesty, including in the evocation of recent wounds – I am thinking in particular of forgetting the celebration of the centenary of Alsace's return to France, a very damaging oblivion, but which you mentioned with great modesty, without making sentimentalism or falling into the pathos, which could have exacerbated the passions in the Chamber. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u261	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u262	As a neighbour and friend, I would like to tell you how sensitive I am to your attachment, and also to the ties that bind us together. The geographical connections, of which I am, as a peasant, in love, links between landscapes, between territories, between valleys, do not mark ruptures; These are passages, bridges between each other. Being elected from a territory that has one of the smallest vineyards in France, the Côtes-de-Toul, located between Champagne and Alsace, I can say that we are proud to have two big neighbours who have a lot to teach us about the future of the vineyard and who help us to strengthen our own identity, through these wines on the edge of the Moselle which take us, across borders, to Luxembourg and Germany. All this is not contradictory. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, how valuable these bridges are to me, how fruitful our ties are and our unwavering friendship between Members of the various regions. In the love of the country, what strikes me the most, it is not so much the country as love, this attachment of men to places, to a history, to an inheritance. I will take two examples, in order to avoid any caricature – to which no one has given a voice until now, except for exceptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u263	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u264	The main humanist legacy of Nancy's school certainly comes from those who found refuge in the city after the Frankfurt Treaty. These artists, scientists and researchers have left Nancy, in the field of health, social, technological or scientific, a legacy that is still extremely valuable today. On the other hand, it was in Strasbourg, in the cathedral, in this year 2015, which, in your opinion, was so disastrous, that I heard the great Bernard Cazeneuve, then Minister of the Interior, deliver one of the most beautiful speeches on secularism that is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u265	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u266	We must avoid caricature. In a world marked by interdependence, the regional fact and local identities must be put at the service of something beyond us. This is the very history of the Republic and, beyond that, that of universalism. No one today will oppose the heroic memory of Victor Schœlcher and that of Henri Grégoire; No one will oppose the memory of all those who, coming from our regions, have contributed to the universal purpose of France. These memories, we have to mix them up, associate them. My only question right now is how differentiation can lead to more republics and more universalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u267	Bravo! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u268	In my view, this is precisely the limit of the bill. I mean, and this is an important confession for the Socialist who I am, the policy that has reshaped the regions was, in my opinion, a policy of squabbling.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u269	That's right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u270	But we don't correct one policy of gribouille by driving another.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u271	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u272	What will differentiate us and unite us in the service of European and universal design? That's the real question. The real challenge is not the discussion we can have at this time; It is the fight against climate change, against terrorism, against poverty: it is not to the cries of "Vive l'Alsace! "Vive Occitanie!", "Vive Occitanie! or "Long live Lorraine! That the various generations have descended into the streets: they have mobilized to save the planet and to see there an equal dignity among men. However, in what you are proposing, I see nothing like this, neither in practice for Lorraine – we will come back to it with the amendments – nor for the balance between rights and duties, on an equal footing, nor the necessary agility and the constant concern to give substance to the European and Republican dream, which presupposes the equal dignity of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u273	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u274	It is because we have not found a trace of this balance that we will be critical in defending each of our amendments, measures of equivalence and pedagogy of a differentiation deeply respectful of the Republic. [[Hubert Wulfranc and Caroline Fiat applaud]] One more word, Madam President: we are often asked to choose, Cornelian duality, between our mother and justice. For my part, I will never choose between our sister Alsace and the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u275	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u276	For the Alsatians, the law that we are considering is perhaps the most important in the legislature, and it is certainly the law that, locally, popular memory will remember at the time of the balance sheets. Although not necessarily disappointed, the great region has never managed to make forget the disappearance of the Alsace region. Legally, this region was, of course, only an ordinary regional council – of which I was vice-president – and its powers were, in all things, limited. However, since 2015, Alsace's desire has only grown. It is simply the cry of the heart of citizens who, to be French, are nevertheless attached to their geographical, historical and cultural particularities. In short, on the left bank of the Rhine was born an osmosis between attachment to the French homeland and the German concept of Heimat. [[MM. Olivier Becht, Vincent Thiébaut and Bruno Fuchs applaud]] It is the honour of this government to have heard it. Allow me to thank Prefect Marx in particular for his preparatory work and you, Madam Minister. I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for his sense of listening, which I found exceptional. You understood very early, Madam Minister, that we should not address the subject we are talking about with dogmatic eyes, and that the aspiration of the Alsatians was not a sign of distrust of our nation, on the contrary. Some, of course, will see in this text the glass half empty: at worst, a renunciation, at best, of a bancial compromise, since their wish to leave the Great East will not be fulfilled. For my part, I believe that it is in vain, in politics as in life, to want to replay the game that we lost. It is true that the lessons of the past must be drawn, but in order to better put them at the service of a new project. The European Community of Alsace is this gateway to the future, because it responds to the challenges of its time. It echoes, through its European and cross-border dimension, the desire to strengthen the Franco-German cooperation enshrined in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. It responds to the desire to strengthen proximity policies which have crystallized, and sometimes expressed forcefully, during the great debate. It is based on the logic of differentiation which the President of the Republic wishes to see enshrined in the Constitution. No, the European Community of Alsace is not an avatar of the project submitted to the referendum in 2013: it is indeed a new project, which will have to be implemented from 2021. To those who wish to see only a "more department", I reply that the originality of the approach lies precisely in this "more". While Édouard Philippe told us, just two weeks ago, of his willingness to propose to Parliament a law of decentralisation in 2020, is the European Community of Alsace not the right example to follow, that of a classical community exercising its legal powers, to which are added competences adapted to territorial specificities? Let us take the example of the fight against unemployment, a major cause of all governments for decades. In Alsace, you cannot deal with this subject without considering the employment pool as a whole, on both sides of the Rhine: the left bank, the unemployment rate is comparable to that of the rest of France, with young people who, despite their diplomas, do not find employment. Right bank, in Germany, the key word is fachkräftemangel: lack of skilled labour. The Rhine, which is not much wider than the Seine in Paris, is yet an increasingly impassable border for those who would like to try their luck in the face. The reasons for this are well known: the problem of language, the differences between school systems, administrative obstacles and transport problems. We have seen these truths for a long time; and to remedy it, the discourses have remained very ineffective. It is precisely at this level that the European Community of Alsace must bring added value: the head of filat in cross-border matters or the increased competence on bilingualism are the levers that must enable it to act all the more effectively as its elected representatives will be close to the ground and accountable to the public. It was in this spirit that the two department presidents wished to emphasize plurilingual competence. As you said, Madam Minister, they also want to recruit good staff to teach in German. Finally, let's keep in mind that these new skills can be combined with others from the state or other communities. The intelligence of this text is precisely not to close any doors. It is, in the end, a balanced compromise, which meets a popular aspiration while aiming for a hand-sewn administrative organisation. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – MM. Vincent Thiébaut and Bruno Fuchs also applaud]] Finally, let's keep in mind that these new skills can be combined with others from the state or other communities. The intelligence of this text is precisely not to close any doors. Finally, it is a balanced compromise, which responds to a popular aspiration while aiming for a hand-sewn administrative organisation, with a view to better adapting to local realities. Alsace will thus be able to become an avant-garde laboratory of this decentralized Republic, close to people and open to Europe to which Agir's elected representatives fully subscribe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u277	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u278	In the preamble, I would like to commend the work of our colleague rapporteur, Rémy Rebeyrotte: I can testify to the listening and tenacity he has shown to hear and take into account the positions of elected representatives and local actors, parliamentarians and elected representatives from the Greater East region and members of the Government, while affirming the place and role of the National Assembly. As I have heard on our trip to Strasbourg, and here too, the aspirations, desires and fears, sometimes expressed in a contradictory way. I would like to reassure all those elected – even if I am not sure I can – regardless of their benches or their election lands: here there is no dismemberment of the Republic, no competition from the territories or – much less – a gift given to a few. To allow one territory to seize certain skills to respond to local specificities is not to advantage it over others, wherever they are in France, in the Grand Est region or elsewhere; Nor is it to prevent other territories, wherever they are in France, in the Grand Est region or elsewhere, from exercising the same powers, or others if their representatives express the will to do so. So I say quite clearly: this text does not affect any territory, does not remove any possibility to anyone. It must be understood, and this is how the majority group understands it, as a signal that differentiation is possible and as an encouragement to agree on how to respond to the particular challenges of a territory. To differentiate, we insist, it is not to distance oneself from or to cut off the ties that make the French nation: it is to act as close to the ground and its specificities; It means promoting the intelligence of the territories. The competences of the new European Community of Alsace are – with the exception of the competence of tourism, which for this territory has a specific mark and character – competences of the State: roads, cross-border cooperation, bilingualism. So I say again with force: no one is wronged, everyone is encouraged to draw inspiration from this example. We thus allow the departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin to form themselves in the European Community of Alsace, itself part of the Grand East region within the Republic. This text is the first concrete illustration of the territorial development policy undertaken by the Government with regard to differentiation, a policy supported by the parliamentary majority. A constitutionally recognized territorial community, the department, will thus receive skills adapted to local circumstances. On the basis of the Matignon Joint Declaration of 29 October 2018, we will trust, all together – in any case those of us who will vote on the text – the Alsatian actors by giving them differentiated responsibilities. Differentiated, they may not be different enough for some; But if the president allows me a quote in French, "Patience and length of time/ Font more than strength or rage". [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Because this bill maintains the institutional balance of our Republic, because it allows local actors to seize their destiny and because it is a text of responsibility and openness, the LaREM group supports and will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u279	The general discussion is closed. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u280	Without going back to all the points discussed – which have been the subject of interesting interventions – I will focus on two or three of them. First of all, with this bill, the Government, I would like to remind you, invites you to legislate on an ongoing basis. It is the specific character of the Alsatian territory that, in addition to the powers exercised by the two merged departments, justifies entrusting to the European Community of Alsace the competences referred to in the text. Many have referred to the right to differentiation, but everyone knows that it is not yet enshrined in our fundamental law: in this respect, only a right to experimentation exists to date. However, the right to differentiation will of course open other windows, for Alsace as for other territories. The speaker who spoke for the FI Group is no longer in the Chamber, but I want to say to him that the fact of agitating, by means of a fairly well-known dialectic, the argument that France is not a federal state, that the Länder would not have their place there,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u281	She's a long way from this model!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u282	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – MM. Bruno Fuchs and Raphaël Schellenberger also applaud]] ...this argument is neither serious nor, if I may say, very healthy. He sometimes gets involved, moreover, with criticism of Germany, and even of the Treaty of Aachen, which seems to me a little inappropriate. Quite curiously, all this reminds me of criticisms that have been heard at the other end of the House. I turn to the criticisms of the Concordat and Alsatian law: they testify to a lack of knowledge of the territories concerned. He came back to my mind listening to MM. Wulfranc and Potier that in 1877 the Third Republic had distributed in all the schools of France a book allegedly written by a certain Mr Bruno and whose author was actually a woman who used a pseudonym: Le Tour de la France par deux enfants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u283	And where did he start?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u284	I understand that Mr Wulfranc's theory was the unity of the Republic, and it is a concern that I share, but I recall that the Tour de la France by two children was written following the connection of Alsace to Prussia and that the children heroes of this book, who lived in Phalsburg...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u285	It's in Moselle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u286	It's Lorraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u287	... and were therefore, of course, of Lorrain origin, crossed the whole of France. I remember that in the 1960s, the Tour de la France by two children was still very present in schools. We learned to read in this book, but we also learned the richness of the diversity of our territories, their history and that of their trades and agriculture. This Third Republic, which is nevertheless the symbol of the Republic, did not hesitate to recognize the diversity, originality and identity of the territories, and I have always thought that this was not contradictory to the republican idea of unitary France. Mr Potier, who is no longer here, should therefore reflect on his vote at the end of the discussion of the text. To go back to what many speakers have said very well, which I will not all mention, what we are proposing with this text is the institutional existence of Alsace. I very much liked the words of Mr Becht, who noted that this was the first time that a text on Alsace had been voted on outside of dramatic circumstances. This is also something very positive. Of course, as many of you have said on all the benches – and I thank them for that – all this reminds us of the Rhine basin, humanism and Europe. I hope there will be, as Bruno Fuchs said, a forward and a later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u288	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u289	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u290	This article gives us the opportunity to gradually enter the substance of the text. It is clear, as we have just pointed out in general discussion, that there is in Alsace an expectation of an Alsatian community of full exercise, which means for us a community that can exercise the powers of a department, but also those of a region, as well as those that the state will agree to transfer or delegate. In fact, today we feel a bitter taste, because we have insisted very much on the fact that our fellow citizens expect us to go further and, when we talk with them in our constituencies, they accuse us of playing with the weariness of the Alsatians. It is therefore important to state clearly and solemnly this evening that it can only be a first step and that there will be a stronger expectation: that of an Alsatian community that can also be a full-fledged regional community. As we have recalled, and contrary to what has sometimes been heard, Alsatian specificities are a wealth, as the diversity of the nation's territories is one for the nation as a whole. To deny this diversity would be very largely counterproductive. This bitter taste that I was referring to is that, while Matignon's preamble affirms very strong things, the bill is, unfortunately, very much in retrogress from these assertions. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u291	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u292	I do not share Mr. Hetzel's analysis at all. This text indeed includes very strong progress in terms of competences, which have been mentioned earlier and which we will return to throughout its examination, for example in the field of cross-border cooperation or bilingualism. In terms of bilingualism, progress is very important, with a strong commitment to be able to manage this field of public policy. Our MODEM group wants to be able to clarify certain things. As I said at the beginning, in fact, intentions are commendable, interesting and marked, but if they are to materialise in terms of public policies and produce immediate results for our citizens, we need means, methods and tools, and that is what we will strive to clarify in the discussion that will take place, with several amendments. We have proposed the creation of a centre of excellence, which is unfortunately considered inadmissible under Article 40 of the Constitution, as well as the possibility of developing Franco-German recruitment centres. These are a few tools and means to enable the rapid development of fast-paced public policies. I would point out just now that, in addition to speeches, we are, in reality, experiencing a deficit in terms of bilingualism by comparison, for example, with the Basque Country, where 40% of young people learn Basque, while they are less than 20% in Alsace. Thus, while a large number of jobs are to be filled in Switzerland and Germany, there are no young Alsatians to go, as was the case before, mainly because of a lack of proficiency in the language. We will therefore try to clarify in this article a number of means and tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u293	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u294	As far as bilingualism is concerned, we must remain reasonable and compare comparable things: we cannot compare the Basque Country, a community which now consists of an agglomeration community, with the European Community of Alsace of tomorrow, which will have nearly 2 million inhabitants. When we talk about statistics, compare comparable things. Secondly, I hear that positions would be to be filled across the border, but that is not why I am defending bilingualism. This way of perceiving things demonstrates a lack of knowledge of the territories, because similar positions are often available in France, without requiring any specific language skills in Alsace. I therefore call on some colleagues to be more present in the country before referring to such subjects in the Chamber. As far as this first article is concerned, I would like to take advantage of this introductory discussion to stress that we will not be able to debate some of our proposals in the Chamber, even though it seemed important to me. The first of these proposals was an amendment to remove Alsace from the Grand East region, which was rejected under Article 40 of the Constitution, which I find regrettable. The second amendment tended to propose a referendum for the Alsatians to allow them, as in 2013, and in the same way as they then expressed themselves, to decide whether or not to belong to the Far East. A third amendment which would have seemed interesting to me tended to propose the allocation of the clause of general competence to this particular community which will tomorrow be the European Community of Alsace. It is also regrettable that some of our amendments are excluded from a text which deals with the powers of a territorial authority under Article 40, even though they refer precisely to the powers of territorial authorities. It is a form of inconsistency of our right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u295	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u296	Beyond what may have been said in general discussion and to repeat what my colleague has just said, I fear that this bill will bring us into a period of legal inconsistency and open to a great deal of instability and uncertainty, far beyond the territory that concerns us. The text before us, Madam Minister, if it were to be an institutionally sustainable step, will ultimately satisfy no one, and that is what I fear will happen at the end of our discussions. Indeed, he will leave much of the Alsatians unsatisfied, for whom, as we have just heard, he does not go far enough. In fact, their desire for Alsace makes them wish, in concrete terms, a complete review of the NOTRE law and an independent region of the Great East – and we can understand them. The text also does not satisfy the supporters and supporters of a strong, one and indivisible Republic, who regret that a bill emanating from the Government itself thus brings to public debate the fate of a part of the national territory – and we can understand them as well. Since we are going to talk about this clause 1 A, about the name, that is, the origin and meaning of this bill, it is important to say what is: Bill NOTRE has never been accepted by anyone on the national territory and it would require a rapid review, rather than seeking to bring this and that baroque responses that, as I said, ultimately will not satisfy anyone and will cause a boomerang effect in many areas. Before we get to grips with an institutional process that could lead to what I do not know, we should clearly support the idea of a new act of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u298	This is what our country needs, first and foremost, to craft the NOTRE law. But I'm afraid that's not the case. I would therefore like to express my full reservations at the time of the debate on Article 1 A, which was devoted to the origin of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u299	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u300	I am very pleased to note that the Alsatian Members who spoke said that this text was a step and that the objective was to leave the Great East, which was not said three or four months ago. So the idea matures in the minds. The difficulty is that the President of the Republic is against this idea. So is it a man alone who unilaterally decides that we can't get out of the Great East? I have the impression that we have completely forgotten the yellow vest crisis and the indispensable evolution of the way our democracy operates. Can a man alone make such decisions? It is true that François Hollande had also decided on his own and that his majority had followed him blindly... My colleague-elect from the Vosges is quite right to recall that 67% of the inhabitants of the Great East are unhappy with the great region – they are 62% in Lorraine, 67% in Champagne-Ardenne and 82% in Alsace. We could have done a clean job right now by simply leaving the Great East to avoid the legal difficulties, especially the constitutional ones, that await us. Indeed, I am very afraid of the Constitutional Council's censorship of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u301	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u302	Mr Straumann, there is at least one Alsatian MEP who does not wish to leave Alsace from the East, and that is my case. Whatever the difficult history of the NOTRE law, the size effect of the Grand Est region is important for certain achievements, particularly in terms of economic development and innovation. I wanted to remind him. On the substance, and in response to the positions expressed, this article on the European vocation of a European community in Alsace sets a certain level of ambition, which is quite positive. Let's be clear, however, Mr. Viry: we're going to have to make a choice. If, in fact, we enter into a logic of differentiation, accepting that Alsace has specificities – for example, that, given its border character with Germany and the stakes it represents, it is legitimate to have specificities and responsibilities in the cross-border field – it is not a uniform decentralisation, in which such competence would be decentralised in a homogeneous way. That is precisely the philosophy that we are deploying. The period of uniform decentralization, with important measures, such as Defferre or Balladur decentralisation, has marked important steps, but in my view we are entering into a logic of differentiation which now fully meets the specificities of the territories. It is therefore true that we are dealing with a matter of importance, which gives us the opportunity to approach decentralization differently. And that is the new way of thinking that we are trying to apply to the Alsatian case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u303	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u304	The debate is already lively, while Article 1e r A concerns only the name of the future Alsatian community: "European Community of Alsace"! I would remind our colleague Straumann that this community will be part of the Greater East region, but with its particularism, and thus with differentiation. As I said in committee, we will share with several cross-border problems: Moselle with Luxembourg and Germany, Meurthe-et-Moselle with Belgium and Luxembourg, the Ardennes with Belgium... That is why, tomorrow, you will be an example to follow for the rest of the region in terms of differentiation, but within the framework of the Greater East region. Alsace's desire exists, as there is an equivalent desire in many departments of the Grand Est region. But if your objective is to ensure that the bill is rejected and to return to Alsace to evoke a failure of the Government and the presidential majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u305	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u306	...we won't let you do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u307	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u308	Our colleague misheard us. This debate at least allows everyone to express themselves clearly. There is a bill, and we have decided to take a position on it. There may be different visions of the future. The laws are changing, our work shows it, and the truth of the Great East is not intangible. Mitterrand's children should have remembered that decentralization was first and foremost proximity! However, when larger communities are created than the Netherlands, Switzerland or Belgium, proximity gives way to technocracy, to poor public spending – that of functioning – and to the negative carbon balance. There you are, your Great East. It's not ours, but I still respect your point of view. We pretend to believe that France is uniform. We have the same right that applies almost everywhere. But the institutional organisation of France is not uniform! There is a derogation for Paris, Lyon and Marseille; we have changed the status of Paris by merging the city and the department; we have changed the status of the agglomeration of Lyon, now both agglomeration and department; we have changed the status of Corsica by an ordinary law; Overseas territories, which are fully part of the Republic, are subject to a special status. The Republic is our common home but the tapestry can be slightly different from one room to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u309	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u310	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u311	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] As I said in the general discussion, this text is a step. About 85 per cent of Alsatians, when questioned, want to leave the Great East. For me, the Alsatians are perfectly justified in defining for themselves the community in which they wish to live.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u312	All right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u313	This will not prevent them from being part of the Republic or from being French citizens like the others. Is it better a bad compromise or a good quarrel? If we vote on this text, we will choose a bad compromise, but optimistic as I am, I think it is always better than a good quarrel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u314	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u315	The name of the future community is not just a symbol: it says the meaning of the fight that we are going to lead here, with mutual respect. As Camus has said more or less, wrong to name things is to add to the misfortune of the world. This is not a question of creating a community but of creating a European community. However, there is still an ambiguity about the word "community": it is in fact a department. And, as I say with great respect, this department is neither more nor less European than those of Lorraine, than those of Champagne-Ardenne, than the Occitan departments neighbouring Spain, etc. What will be decided today for Alsace is it intended to prefigure a law of differentiation? In this case, one must imagine the extension of this differentiation to all departments with the same characteristics. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, about the coherence of future action. Is the present text the laboratory of the future law of decentralization? Since a principle of equality must prevail in the Republic, it would therefore be called "European" a future Lorraine department, or the Pyrénées-Atlantiques... We have to get to the end of this process. A policy of Gribouille, in this case that of 2015, is not corrected by another policy of Gribouille; And that's what we're doing. We will therefore reject the name of the new community, not out of jealousy towards our Alsatian friends, but because we must have specific ideas on the subject: for too long we have been lacking a compass and a clear vision of what this powerful couple, composed on the one hand of agility and differentiation, and on the other hand of republican unity, must be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u316	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u317	Mr. Potier beat me. Everyone will have understood that through the name of the future community, it is a substantive debate that we are leading. We're not out of the question. As Mr Potier has just pointed out, the text does not regulate anything. It even introduces a specificity that goes beyond that claimed by our colleagues LR, which we should discuss. We do not see very well the usefulness of the particularism that you want to establish: is it a department of common law or not? Moreover, to be legally sound, such a status is intended to develop: the opposite would not be well understood. Why should one territory in France be called "European community"? In the name of what argument would there not be a European community elsewhere? It is not the cultural specificity of our Alsatian friends that must lead to this qualifier. It is clear that this project is very poorly designed, and that it does not even satisfy our colleagues who would like to go much further than I myself would like. [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] Bastien Lachaud, earlier, expressed himself in a style, let's say... very "principal".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u318	That's what's found!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u319	But hear that current of opinion exists! The question of local law, the question of the specificity of secularism, a debate that affects the whole country, you must hear it. Indeed, how can we justify that, in your territories, religions are financed by public funds, but that a religion is not? In the name of what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u320	Why don't you come and check it out?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u321	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] And yet you know very well that people in your territory belong to this religion – I am thinking of Islam.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u322	What does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u323	That's the question, on the contrary! In maintaining this local law, there is a risk that the country will be inflamed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u324	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u325	Yes, because you will not be able to justify to an Alsatian of Muslim faith that his worship will not be able to benefit from public funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u326	This has nothing to do with local law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u327	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You know nothing about it: it is precisely local law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u328	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u329	Yes, I do! And when we tell you that we must work on the unity of laws throughout the territory rather than exalt specificities, we are talking about the substance of the problem. I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u330	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u331	Let me turn to the context. The name of the future community was chosen by the presidents of the departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin, who decided to merge the two communities. I cannot therefore contest a name chosen by local elected officials that is entirely justified in doing so. We must therefore take into account the relevant decree. Secondly, I hear our colleagues discuss the particularity of the community in question. Any debate is good, but I would remind you that in less than two years, this majority, this government, has allowed territorial innovation, as Olivier Becht pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u332	This is not the first majority to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u333	It seems to me that the last single-status community took more than ten years to establish itself. This text is the result of an agreement. We have been heard by the Government, which has found a consensus solution in wishing to assign specific powers to this community, which was born, as I said, of the merger of two departments. The Government provided concrete responses, which none of its predecessors had done. I am thinking, for example, of the transfer of road management, which the Alsace region did not have – it should have been regretted that it had disappeared. We can discuss the form for hours, but what interests me is the allocation of skills to the new community that respond to the daily problems of the Alsatians. I say this to put the debate back on track. The question is, why are we doing this or that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u334	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u335	There are several types of people: those who would like to get everything and right away, knowing that it is not possible, those who would like Alsace to have nothing at all in the name of the uniformity of the Republic, which we also do not want, and finally those who think that the text is an acceptable compromise as it is because it is a step on a path that could be long – not too long, I hope. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM and MODEM groups and on a few benches of the LR group]] Why call this community a European? Because, you may not know, Alsace is at the heart of Europe's cultural, historical and other geography. Strasbourg is both the capital of Alsace and the capital of Europe – the Council of Europe and the European Parliament – and it intends to remain so. It's a symbol. This is why it is planned to call the new community "European Community of Alsace".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u336	That's not an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u337	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I come to end with the nature of this community. Some would have liked, first of all, that it be clearly a community with a particular status. Some say it's a department – I hear the minister. The reality is that, legally, it is likely that it will not be either completely or completely: it will have the administrative organization of a department but specific competences that are not those of a department. So here we are doing political innovation, for Alsace and for us, Alsatians. There is no reason to squander our pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u338	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u339	Of course, we have the right to have different opinions, which is what we call democracy. However, it should not be suggested that some, nice people, want a lot of things for Alsace and that others do not want to give it anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u340	Give us the same status as Corsica!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u341	Maybe some people want equality for all, whether we're Alsatian, Occitan, Breton or something. As far as the name of the future community is concerned, should it change if the European Parliament is no longer in Strasbourg? This is an eventuality that seems to be the subject of some discussion, which no one here wishes, I think. In any case, we need to be careful: why don't we discuss, after this text, a bill on the city of Verdun – by being native, I would be very proud – which would rename it "world community of Verdun", the city being the world capital of peace? The specificities are not just Alsacian, they are everywhere in France, because we live in a beautiful country characterized by thousands of specificities. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I also call your attention to words that sometimes go beyond thought, especially when some speak of the exit from the Greater East region. Some colleagues did not enjoy being merged with the Lorrains. The way they said it can be very vexing for the Lorrains.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u342	You're the one who's excited about passions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u343	I say it with kindness: you have to be careful about what you say. The Alsatian specificities exist, but those of all the other departments also.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u344	But we never said otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u345	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u346	I prefer generalization to special cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u347	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u348	We wish to delete the article. We have already made our arguments, but I insist on one point: if we consider that the creation of the Greater East region in 2015 was regrettable, questionable – we were not in favour of it – this text does not solve the problem. To get back to the bottom, let me say that no one in this Chamber has the monopoly of Alsace, not even our Alsatian colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u349	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u350	We all have the right to have an opinion. I know the weight of the words – I've already had sex with Paul Molac! – and perhaps I sometimes misspoke myself. There is obviously a tradition, an identity of Alsace, as it is also true for Brittany or Corsica. In terms of bilingualism, I am also in favour of the public service of national education allowing for the transmission of languages: this is not a problem for me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u351	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u352	On the other hand, like all of you, I have a fine ear: I hear that for some there are other things behind this debate. They say, for example, that this is only a step... Everyone exalts specificities, to finally talk about the tax on motorways. But where is the general interest? When we talk to colleagues in other departments, we know very well what happens when a free motorway becomes paid: transportation may move on other roads.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u353	Look at a map before you talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u354	Come to the scene!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u355	We have to get out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u356	The subject of our discussion must be the general interest, which, although the Alsatian question is important, cannot be a succession of pleas from each elected official who feels compelled to defend the specifics of his territory alone. The issue must be resolved in general. Indeed, the peculiarities are everywhere, as well as the feeling of abuse caused by the division of France into nine major regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u357	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u358	We do not say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u359	Of course, but the way in which the debate is initiated does not regulate anything, and even introduces a corner into the unity of the Republic, you cannot deny it. Further discussions will open. I respect those among you who say that we must even move towards local experiments without knowing how far it will go: they could concern taxation, and, why not, labour law or I don't know what other issues are still going to be... [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] That is why we are calling for the deletion of the article. In this way, we express a radical opposition to this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u360	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u361	You're right, Mr. Corbière, let's talk about general interest! We do not have the same conception of the Republic. We believe that, in the Republic, we must first respect the history of the territories...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u362	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u363	... and then adapt policies to the realities of these territories, and trust local elected officials. This is our view of the decentralized Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u364	In the history of France, there have been others!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u365	We believe that the Republic also breathes through its territories, that local elected representatives have a special place in its expression, through their work on the territory. That's our conception. It happens that the two department presidents proposed the name "European Community of Alsace", without a doubt because they also wanted to recall the European dimension of Strasbourg, the European capital. They are strongly committed to this idea, as well as to the fact that Alsace carries the European idea. We have decided to take their views into account, as the Government has done. I therefore, of course, give an unfavourable opinion to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u366	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u367	Unfavorable opinion. On 27 February, the departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin were consolidated by decree. Article 1e r A of the draft law therefore has the sole effect of specifying the name of the "European Community of Alsace", which is therefore a department with complementary or specific competences. The draft law adds to Book IV of Part III of the General Code of Territorial Authorities, relating to the department, the title "European Community of Alsace". All the articles thus created are explicitly aimed at the European Community of Alsace. Therefore the legal nature of the department as well as the name of the European Community of Alsace are no doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u368	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u369	Alexis Corbière defends his abolition amendment by explaining that we would contribute to dismantling the Republic. We do not share that view. We are only taking into account a geographical and human reality, which can justify a number of provisions. Decentralization can be a point of disagreement between us, Mr Corbière. You have a very centralizing DNA, I would even say "jacobin," if you have nothing against that term.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u370	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u371	For our part, we are Girondins, and we think we need to go as close to the ground as possible. We believe that decentralization has been a very good thing and, for the effectiveness of our country, we wish to go even further in this process. So we can only be opposed to your amendment based on the idea that everything should be centralized. We do not share that view. As you say yourself, Alsace today has a number of specificities – many, like local law, are shared by the Moselle department. All this is now enshrined in the Constitution. The debate has therefore already taken place. We are extremely committed to not touching on the specificities that can contribute to enriching the Republic, as Alsace has widely shown. I am not going to dwell on the debt that the Republic may have towards Alsace. The Treaty of Frankfurt was not a magnificent agreement for the territories ceded to the Prussian Empire! This has been done in pain, and other events of the past century also justify a number of specificities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u372	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that this text is not the subject of the scheduled legislative time procedure. In other words, you cannot speak for more than two minutes during the discussion of the amendments. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u373	Mr rapporteur, there is not on one side the elected representatives of La République on the march, who respect, listen and are in the care of the local elected representatives, and on the other side the terrible Jacobins that we would be, centralizers and Parisians – most of the time you will find it very difficult to find me in Paris! What's happened in years? The power of municipalities, departments and the nation – i.e. local policies and national policies with universalistic scope on the national territory, i.e. the policies of the Republic – has been replaced by a second institutional level: the power of metropolitan areas, regions and Europe. As a result, today we have a distance of citizens from public policies dominated by a liberal side. Do not use the word "jacobin", so you make it dirty. Instead, call us "centralizers"! For our part, we continue to believe that public policies of equality – that is, equity, including in their specific approach – freedom policies, because there are several freedoms, and fraternity policies directly refer to the issues we are causing today: national heritage, health and culture. I am talking about national heritage, because until proof to the contrary, national roads and unlicensed motorways are part of it! Of course, this conception is radically opposed to the one to which you adhere, to which the policies have been adherent for some time, but do not come constantly to teach us the lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u374	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u375	I stress that section 1 A, which we want to delete, concerns the name of the community. The presidents of the two departments have worked hard to agree on a name: we do not go back to their work, we do not contest it, and we congratulate them even on their involvement. We call for the deletion of the article because, as the Council of State has pointed out, there is an ambiguity with the attribution of this name, which could lead to a double disregard for the legal nature of the new community. Our deletion amendment is therefore intended to avoid a legal problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u376	I have before me five amendments, Nos 102, 125, 1, 30 and 104, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1, 30 and 104 are identical. I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u377	It is a kind of fun-mouth, before the much more consistent amendments proposing a community with a particular status. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LR group]] At the origin of this bill, there is the declaration of Matignon of 29 October 2018 and the decree of 27 February 2019 that creates the European Community of Alsace, on the initiative of the two departmental councils of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin. The deputy Thierry Michels, our Hans im Schnòckeloch, would probably have preferred the AEM, Alsace En Marche, but it would be taking his desires for realities! So, like the metropolis of Strasbourg, known and recognized, I propose the name "Eurocommunity of Alsace". Indeed, the name "European Community of Alsace" is not very happy and " CEA" even less. I could have pushed my approach to the end of its logic by proposing the substitution of these terms for all the occurrences of "European Community of Alsace" in the bill. I did not do so to show that I am approaching this debate in a benevolent manner, but I wanted to make this proposal for this new community of Alsace desired by 83% of the Alsatians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u378	Mr Laurent Furst, in support of Amendment No. 125, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u379	I am fortunate to be in my second term as a parliamentarian and, as I am interested in issues relating to local and regional authorities, I have always chosen to follow the texts on this subject. When we voted for a special status for Paris, I don't remember anyone who felt that we were endangering the uniqueness of the Republic – yet this status exists only for Paris. When we voted for a special status for Lyon, no one said that we were endangering the Republic – for my part, I saw it, on the contrary, as an interesting experiment for the whole Republic. When we voted for a special status for Corsica – the Chamber was even less filled than tonight – no one thought that we were endangering the values of the Republic, its unity and its uniqueness. So, sometimes, I wonder why some words or judgments come out when we talk about Alsace. Does the history of Alsace, so painful for the Alsatians still bother today?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u380	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Never!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u381	My amendment is aimed at solving a problem of law by referring to Article 72 of our Constitution. I rely on Mr. Becht's arguments, which explained to us that there is a difference between the legal status of the community and the jurisdiction exercised. Article 72 of the Constitution seems to me to be such as to secure the entire system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u382	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u383	The aim of this amendment is very clear: to secure legally the article before us. Indeed, the Conseil d'État has pronounced itself on the name, but also and above all, as Laurent Furst said at the moment, it has made it very clear that two legal structures are defined by the Constitution: the departments on the one hand, and the communities with special status on the other. It is clear that, even if it is a merger of departments, the text also confers specific powers on this territory. The very terms "European Community of Alsace" refer well to something other than a department. Let us go to the end of this logic and make it clear in the law that it is a community with a special status within the meaning of article 72 of the Constitution. As the minister pointed out, this can be done on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u384	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u385	After hearing Vincent Thiébaut in the general discussion, I think it is good to point out that we are not reinventing the b.a.-ba of the policy of decentralization of the state: this text proposes a small step forward that repairs a profound injustice that Alsace has suffered, not to institute the specificity of the territorial administration – which does not date from today. We must therefore relativize. Laurent Furst has listed several examples that should lead us to reflect more on the logics that our assembly must adopt: we would be prepared to create communities with special status for some territories, but not for others? That's a question. This amendment therefore tends to make the newly created European community a community with a special status. It has a vocation: to secure the device. The Council of State has given a relatively critical opinion on the text, which we are concerned about. The new competences assigned to a constant right can only be granted if there is a justification of specificity, which can be difficult to establish. The creation of a special-status community would make it possible to avoid this difficulty. And then, whatever you want, this community will be special because even if it takes over the administrative and political organization of a department, that is to say departmental councillors elected in pairs by canton, themselves electing their executive, this does not prevent that community from having at least the first specificity compared to the other departments to cover the territory of two departments, understood as administrative constituencies of the State. It will therefore not necessarily be a department like any other. The mechanism must therefore be secured, and it seems to us that the best way to do so is to settle it on the status of the community with special status provided for in article 72 of the Constitution. This is all the more conceivable since nothing prevents a community with a particular status from having a political and administrative organization similar to another community, with other particularities. It is therefore a security amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u386	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u387	In addition to the arguments that my colleagues have just defended, I will add that since the mission of reflection on the territorial and institutional question in Alsace entrusted to the Prefect Marx, from which the remarkable report of June 2018 is drawn, I keep saying that Alsace is not intended to be a department: reducing it to a department would be a regression. Of course, we are promised specific competences in addition to those of the departments, but at the beginning of the discussion, when most of our colleagues see this text as a first step or at least a half full drink, I see it as a drink with only a homeopathic dose of skills. And in order to avoid any confusion, to avoid the double contempt mentioned by the Council of State, my amendment proposes to make the two departments a community with special status within the meaning of article 72 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u388	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u389	A preliminary remark: the territory of Belfort is indeed a department while it does not bear the name of a department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u390	Right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u391	Secondly, in reply to Mr Reiss, I would like to point out that the name "European Community of Alsace" is an expression of the will of the two presidents of the departmental councils. They have chosen it from among others and, at the request of local actors, wanted to secure this name, which our committee approved by including it in Article 1e. A. With this in mind, I would simply like to recall, in response to the various authors of the amendments, the framework chosen: that of the joint declaration. This new community will have as its framework the Grand Est region and will bring together the two departments, to form a department, but with special expertise, which, as has been pointed out, justifies its particular name. This department, which will be above all what its actors will do with it, will be able to use its own expertise. This is where the originality of the text lies. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u392	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u393	The opinion is of course unfavourable, both on the name and on the nature of the community. With regard to the name, as the rapporteur has just pointed out, this is a proposal by the chairmen of the departments. The Government has readily accepted the choice of the two presidents as well as the two departmental councils, since it is cited in the deliberations of each of them. I would also point out that this name is mentioned in the decree of the Council of State and in the memorandum of understanding that we have all signed together. I can understand that some would have preferred another name, but we are not going to start the discussion again when there has been a general agreement. As to the possibility of creating a community with a particular status, I reiterated in my opening remarks that the Government had made clear from the outset that it was not its will to go so far, but that the new community was worth recognizing the specific character of Alsace, a recognition confirmed by the Council of State, and that additional powers could therefore be transferred to it. On the other hand, dear Raphaël Schellenberger, I heard what you said about the rapprochement between the delimitation of the new community and the departmental divisions, but let us be careful: this might justify not maintaining two departmental prefects in Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u394	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u395	However, I do not believe that this is what all the Alsatians want, for many very understandable reasons. In this respect, the new community can be compared to that of Corsica, which still has two state administrative districts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u396	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u397	I am going to vote for the amendments that propose a community with a particular status, for three reasons. The first reason is consistency: not with the whole text but with myself, since in December 2014, when the law on the large regions was passed and the integration of Alsace in the Greater East thus acted, I had advocated that it become a community with special status, in order to regain its status as a local community. The second reason is that the Alsatians are committed to the fact that the community representing Alsace is not just a department. We should be careful not to hear tomorrow "You have certainly recreated Alsace, but by lowering it to the rank of a department when it was previously a region". The third reason is legal. Having been an administrative magistrate in an earlier life and still being a professor of law in a parallel life, I really think that we are facing a hybrid object: of course, the European Community of Alsace will have the status of a department since it will have the administrative organisation – the departmental council, the executive – but giving it different competences makes it a community with particular competences. It is also the characteristic of a community with a particular status.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u398	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u399	I do not see what is likely to be made of Alsace as a community with a special status within the meaning of Article 72 of the Constitution. This is already the case in Lyon or Paris. Two merging departments could very well be subject to special status. I understand this opposition all the less as the Council of State has recommended choosing between a department, with departmental powers, and a community with a special status, with specific competences. The legal risk of your solution therefore exists, according to the Council of State. And then I recall in part that, since the NOTRE law, the department no longer has general jurisdiction. This means that if the new community of Alsace is confronted with a problem that is not provided for in the law, we will be obliged to reconsider. That's not very supple!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u400	That's a good argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u401	[[Patrick Hetzel applauds]] Creating a community with a special status with general jurisdiction in this area would seem interesting to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u402	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u403	The arguments of the rapporteur and the minister argue for the creation of a community with a particular status. Referring to the joint declaration of Matignon does not suit me perfectly, but if that is the basis of the discussion, let's go – while reminding that the Council of State considers that the chosen legal means is not the most able to secure the process! Let us then secure it, by creating a community with a particular status, even if today's text does not give it more powers than provided for in that declaration. And then, Madam Minister, I note that there is no departmental authority covering a territory corresponding to two administrative districts of the state called "departments".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u404	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u405	That is why it is necessary to make Alsace a community with a special status, as is the case for Corsica, which covers two administrative districts of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u406	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u407	[[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] First, attention must be paid, Mr. Becht, to the fact that the departmental community is a fully-fledged community in our institutions, even if the former government had at some point intended to abolish it. The major regions have in fact strengthened the departments. You spoke earlier about "lowering" Alsace to the rank of a department. It is my duty to correct these terms, which are not fair and which I find even condescending towards the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u408	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u409	It's contemptuous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u410	Secondly, the decree in the Council of State, I recall, has not been attacked, and can no longer be attacked. There is therefore no ambiguity: the new department resulting from the merger of the two departments of Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin is called the European Community of Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u411	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u412	I wouldn't want the Alsatians to discover that the departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin have disappeared one day when they wake up. I have therefore tabled this amendment so that it is clear that these departments will be retained as territorial and administrative divisions, as well as their respective prefectures: Colmar for Haut-Rhin and Strasbourg for Bas-Rhin. The Council of State noted that the name "European Community of Alsace" was likely to create a number of legal confusions. The purpose of this amendment is to avoid any confusion in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u413	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u414	The minister will be able to confirm that the deconcentrated services of the state, whose organization will remain distinct in the Upper Rhine and Lower Rhine, from the new community, which well unites the two departments to become one, with special competences – hence the bill that brings us together this evening. As Olivier Becht pointed out in committee, the important thing is these new competences, which must be able to be exercised as quickly as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, you will allow me to pay tribute to the work and commitment of the presidents of the two departments, because what they did was not easy, including politically.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u415	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u416	Unfavorable opinion. I also confirm the continuation of the two administrative districts of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u417	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u418	We still have a few fears. When examining the text in the Law Committee, one of our colleagues asked what justified the retention of two prefectures in a single department. If the law does not specify this, it is possible that tomorrow, in the context of a reform of the prefectural network, that of the Haut-Rhin, for example, will simply disappear. Moreover, as I recall, Alsace is in this respect a land of experimentation, since it is there,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u419	And in Moselle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u420	... in Alsace and Moselle, which were removed the first sub-prefectures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u421	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u422	Mr rapporteur, the department, as part of the deconcentrated organisation of the State, is part of the genes of the Republic. The prefecture cannot therefore be regarded as merely an element which can be adjusted in the same way as other deconcentrated services. This clarification seems important to me at this stage of the debate because, even if the change in the organization depends on the regulatory power, and can therefore be decided very quickly by the executive, departments cannot be affected, as is the case at present, by sub-prefectures or cash flows.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u423	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u424	The ambiguity lies in the fact that the word department covers two realities: it refers to both a territorial community and an administrative district of the State. I would like to point out that the departments as part of the administrative organisation of the State have never been cut by law: this is a matter of regulatory power. That is why I am opposed to this amendment. But, as I say loud and clear, the Government has committed itself to maintaining two departments as administrative constituencies of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u425	I have two identical amendments, Nos 135 and 274. I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u426	It is clear that the confusion raised by the Council of State persists. For my part, I consider that the proposed name, "European Community of Alsace", is subject to discussion and does not go in the direction of the clarification and legitimacy that I call for my wishes. It gives the impression that we would be sliding towards a community with a special status provided for in article 72 of the Constitution, even though this is not, I believe, the intention of the Government or the spirit of the bill. To get out of the ambiguity, I propose that you simply retain the word 'department', which you, the minister, the rapporteur, have used to explain your unfavorable opinion on a number of amendments. In fact, the use of this term will simplify and clarify things, and it is likely that it will legitimize this new community.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u427	I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 274.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u428	Our debate is an obvious demonstration that things are not clear. If they are not for us, they will be even less for the Alsatians. At this time, it is very important that we do not care to please two department presidents who have negotiated the term "community," or those of our colleagues who want to keep it at all costs because that is the case for a community with a particular status. We need to focus on clarity; We owe it to our fellow citizens, as a community with major tasks in social action, college management and road management. The truth is that tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, you will have a department, a departmental council that will deliberate, a chair of departmental councils and a place within the Association des départements de France. Nothing but a department! We can therefore always afford words by naming it "European Community of Alsace", but this denomination maintains a confusion and is, in a way, a matter of manipulation towards the Alsatians, who will wonder what this European community of Alsace is. It is not because its geographic scope is changed or because it is given some additional skills that changes the legal nature of a community. We believe that it is very important for the Alsatians that we be precise. That is why we propose that you simply christen this community "département d'Alsace".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u429	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u430	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u431	[[Olivier Becht applauds]] If it were a department in the classical sense of the word, we would not be there and the question of the name would not have arisen. In the present case, this community has special powers, at least in extremely important areas, which take account of the specificity of the Alsatian territory; hence the name "European Community of Alsace".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u432	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u433	The Government's opinion is, of course, unfavourable. I'm not going to repeat what I said earlier. The department is a community; the community is a department with expertise related to its specificity. The Alsatians, it seems to me, will be able to explain this because, most importantly, as has been said by all on several occasions, it is that an Alsatian community reappears.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u434	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u435	This discussion is symptomatic of the fact that one tends to look at the object "European Community of Alsace" as if the logic of differentiation did not exist. In reality, responsibilities, such as the teaching of the regional language – in this case, the language of the neighbour, German –, cross-border policies or the transfer of national motorways, can evolve in the current legislative framework, such as the name. Moreover, the Council of State indicates that many things are already possible with regard to differentiation. For my part, I am attached to the name "European Community of Alsace", which reflects a new reality, i.e. new responsibilities for Alsace, which correspond to its specificities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u436	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u437	As I have already said, the wrong way to name things is to add to the confusion. Madam Minister, can we consider that the department that wishes to do so will be able to call itself "territory", such as Belfort, or "community", and to qualify itself as European? In fact, many – in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region or the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in particular – can claim such a dimension – and this is undoubtedly the case with Lorrains. Is this text a laboratory of the law of differentiation? In other words, is everything that is acquired by the community of Alsace intended to apply to all departments in an equivalent situation, or is it a political decoy that will create confusion within our Republic and disappointment in Alsace?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u438	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u439	As Mr. Waserman pointed out, we are facing a problem whose obvious solution was to create a community with a particular status. Thus, we would have had all the freedom necessary to create the political agreement formalized in the Matignon Declaration. But, as the Government absolutely wants to justify the introduction into the Constitution of differentiation – which, moreover, is not useful if we create communities with special status – we are blocked. We don't want anything other than a department, because there's going to be differentiation – maybe! For, for the moment, it is only a bet on the forthcoming discussion of a constitutional revision. And everyone who was there last year knows what a constitutional discussion can look like...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u440	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u441	I am happy to join Dominique Potier when he speaks of an open door. Elected from the Lorraine region, I have a lot of ties with Alsace and I consider that Lorraine has also, in the long run, a vocation to claim a European name. In fact, we have a border and a history with European countries, we have cross-border policies... The difficulty, and on this point I agree with Mr Schellenberger, is due to the fact that we remain in the middle of the ford. This bill will create more problems than it will solve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u442	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u443	This debate is surreal. We are faced with people, in the same Chamber and in the same political party, who are for a department that does not have specific powers, or others who, on the contrary, distinguish enough from them to demand a particular status. This debate should not be approached from an institutional, identity or administrative point of view, but from the point of view of competence: it should be exercised, appropriated, resourced and delivered. Skills exist. They have been transferred, or will be, thanks to this bill, to the European Community of Alsace. So let us start from the concrete, and the benefits that our fellow citizens can derive from it. We will therefore be able to realise the real progress that this text represents for our citizens. As far as Europe is concerned, our position is settled. The new community represents a new stage in European integration. The name we have given it corresponds to the reality of today and will be even more true in five or ten years, when we have been a pilot in European integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u444	You put the plow before the ox.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u445	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u446	Sometimes I wonder what the law is for. We are working precisely to clarify a text that must propose a framework, meet expectations and address legitimate concerns. We are trying to move towards a new form of community, based on the model of the department and its competencies, which remain intact, as I know. We are adding new skills on which we need to legislate so that they can be properly exercised by the new community. These powers are the wish of the Alsatian elected officials, whose will we respect. The agreement has been validated by a decree, which has not been called into question. While we can listen to concerns, we must also trust the law, especially as we vote on it ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u447	You might as well write it right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u448	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u449	Semantic debate, though important, is not essential. Communities with special status may be subject to a different organization and have few specific competencies. What the Alsatians are waiting for is the skills: that is the essential! It is not because a community will have a special status that it will be able to solve the problems that arise on the A35 motorway, to encourage the learning of German among young Alsatians or to develop projects with our Swiss and German neighbours! The debate is interesting and the Council of State, or even the Constitutional Council, through a priority issue of constitutionality, may one day decide on the exact nature of this community. But what is important for the Alsatians is to know what particular skills they will exercise. This is what we will look at in future articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u450	I will give the floor to the two speakers who still wish to speak, because the debate is important. But let me remind you that there are 250 amendments left and that we are not on schedule: respect your speaking time! Mr Thierry Michels has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u451	The essential reason why the community is called European was recalled: the seat of the European Parliament, the seat of the Council of Europe! Together with Éric Straumann, I recently tabled a motion for a European resolution, adopted unanimously by the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the action of the French authorities in favour of the attractiveness of Strasbourg. It is important that this community bear its chosen name.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u452	Thank you for your brevity, Congressman. Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u453	I was not delighted by this name at first, because I would like Alsace to come out one day from the Great East. But a name remains a name: the essential is in the skills that will be exercised, or not, by the community. Think of the department of Mayotte, which exercises regional powers despite its name, or the territory of Belfort! However, this name has an advantage: Strasbourg is one of the three European capitals. France often forgets that it has two capitals. In Strasbourg, roughly 20,000 jobs are linked to Europe. It's not nothing. At a time when Strasbourg is being challenged as a European capital, the reaffirmation of this title is not useless, as it recalls the dimension of our community. Few Alsatians oppose it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – MM. Bruno Fuchs, Olivier Becht and Vincent Thiébaut also applaud]] Finally, the measures we are taking today in favour of Alsace do not prohibit anything for other departments or regions. I dream of seeing the Lorraine that I love reborn, I dream of seeing the extraordinary Champagne-Ardenne reborn. France is rich in its diversity, it is strong in its uniqueness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u454	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u455	I thank Mr Furst for his comments. The Government has been arrested on several occasions, but is only responding to a request from the Alsatians. We were not imagining the merger between the two departments: they asked for it themselves. We have therefore decided to work with them to accompany them and to reflect on the modalities of this merger in order to transfer certain competences to them, within the current legislative framework and in the light of the specificities of Alsace. I would add that a third partner has signed: the region. Everything has been negotiated and I stand at the disposal of those who, in France, would have ambitions to develop their territory. I am thus working with the Sillon Lorrain, which aspires to a similar, albeit less institutional, approach. Recently, we have reached an agreement on transport between the border departments and Luxembourg. The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle was signed on 22 January 2019. In short, we work with all the territories! In this case, the 2013 draft was sufficiently recalled to make it easy for you to understand that we are simply responding to a request from the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u456	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-24-O1286.u457	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on the European Community of Alsace. The meeting is adjourned.
