ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u1	The next item is the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for research and higher education (No 2301, Annexes 33 and 34 ; No 2302, Volumes IV and V; No 2298, Volume XIII; No 2292, Volume X). Mr Chouat, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u3	We are at a turning point in our research policy. In the face of the new climate, energy and societal challenges, we need to define an ambitious national research policy, which enables us to make France one of the major powers in the fields of research and innovation. The future law for the programming of research, which we will have to examine next spring in Parliament, will have to respond to this urgency. Let me quote Mr. Prime Minister's just words in his policy statement last June: "Fighting fears... is looking to the future with confidence, investing in intelligence, reconnecting with the spirit of conquest. It is by investing sustainably in research and science that we will effectively combat the feeling of distrust among our fellow citizens and that we will be able to promote a society of progress for all. This budget for 2020 is a new step. It has been part of a constant effort since the beginning of the legislature. Indeed, the research budget, outside universities, has seen a sharp increase since 2017 – 1.2 billion euros in commitment authorisations and 723 million euros in payment appropriations – and a further increase between 2019 and 2020. This trend will be confirmed and amplified in the next programming law. The first priority of this budget, in financial volumes, is our space policy. The means increase by €214 million, both to clear the French debt to the European Space Agency, which will make French involvement in European space programmes more credible, and to face competition with Ariane 6's first launch in 2020. Project-based research, carried out by the National Research Agency, the ANR, is also supported. After a low point in 2015, when the Agency received EUR 527 million, the increase in the means of commitment was continued and continues in 2020. The Agency will benefit from additional commitment authorisations of €32 million next year, thanks to a reduction in the reserve rate, bringing the total amount of appropriations to €740 million. The NRA will therefore have more resources. This will increase the project selection rate to 25%, allowing it to select some 800 additional projects worth around €281 million. However, the so-called "recurring" funding of laboratories is not forgotten. In particular, the National Centre for Scientific Research – CNRS – will benefit from an additional €25 million in order to restore budgetary room for manoeuvre to its laboratories. I also stress the strategic choices made in nuclear energy and renewable energy research. The Government has chosen to complete the Jules Horowitz reactor project, which will strengthen the safety of our power plants and the competitiveness of our nuclear industry. This implies additional funds, amounting to some EUR 30 million in 2020, for the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy, the CEA. The Commission has a consolidated allocation of EUR 51 million. Innovation support policy also has a decisive impetus. To understand it better, we need to get out of the framework of the state budget alone. The Industry Innovation Fund is now operational: it makes it possible to mobilise EUR 250 million per year for strategic innovation areas in order to bring about the emergence of the industry of tomorrow. Financing our start-ups is a central topic. I know the concerns expressed about the decline in the allocation of Bpifrance's innovation aid; We will come back to that when we consider the amendments, but I would like to make it clear now that this budget will allow Bpifrance to increase its contributions by EUR 85 million in 2020. Medical research is strengthened. Between 2019 and 2023, an envelope of EUR 25 million is to be devoted to research on paediatric cancers. We will also come back to that. Agricultural and agri-food research is also strengthened. We will devote an additional €2.5 million to the creation of the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment (INRAE), a consortium of the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA) and the National Research Institute for Science and Technology for the Environment and Agriculture (IRSTEA), capable of forming a global centre on the subject. As you can measure, the research budget does not only look at itself at the national level. I do not have time to mention the important issues relating to the European Union, in particular the next European framework for research and development, called Horizon Europe, which will have EUR 100 billion between 2021 and 2027. Nor do I have time to address the territorial articulation of our research policy, which involves regions, businesses and universities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In any case, the effort made over the past three years clearly illustrates the Government's commitment to research. I therefore invite you to adopt the proposed budget for 2020 for the seven programmes covered by our special report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u4	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u5	For the "Research and Higher Education" mission, this third five-year budget is in line with the two previous ones: with an increase of 534 million euros for 2020, the appropriations increase in three years by 1.7 billion euros, or more than half of the total budget for culture. This effort is considerable and indispensable. It will soon be combined in 2020 with the multi-annual law on research, which we hope will be as ambitious as possible. As Benjamin Franklin rightly and wisely pointed out, "investment in knowledge always has the best interests." This quotation is more relevant than ever, because knowledge and research, their production and dissemination, are the condition of a country's influence and influence; It is also the fermenting of innovation and the development of enterprises, as well as a source of human development and their ability to take down a destiny too well written in advance. The Higher Education and University Research programme is allocated an additional EUR 176 million compared to 2019. In general, these additional appropriations will help to accompany the demographic dynamics of enrolment in higher education, in which universities take their full part. They will make it possible to finance the student plan, i.e. additional places in the fields of tension as well as the accompanying mechanisms towards success, which are beginning to yield extremely encouraging results. They will also allow the transformation of the paths of health studies. In addition, they will enable private institutions which contribute to the tasks of the public service of higher education, which have seen an increase of 20% of their student population in just three years. Finally, they will make it possible to generalise a small revolution in the allocation of resources to universities by means of strategic and management dialogue as close to the field as possible, with all the stakeholders in higher education and research in a territory; This dialogue will allow much finer and more qualitative appraisals of the wealth of projects and the emergence of a logic of mechanical allocation of sometimes discouraging means. Moreover, at this stage, it should be remembered that the State's efforts in favour of higher education cannot be measured by the 150 programme alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u6	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u7	The resources dedicated to higher education are complemented by extra-budgetary funding linked to future investments and new revenue from the student and campus life contribution, the CVEC. Contrary to the ideas received, the aggregation of these new resources shows an ongoing effort by the Government in terms of expenditure per student over the past three years. I come to the "Student Life" programme, with an additional €66 million compared to 2019. These credits will increase direct and indirect aid to our students. The amount spent on grants on social criteria will increase by 46 million euros compared to 2019, i.e. a gain of 11 to 61 euros per student, depending on the scale. The mobility aid Courseup, set up as part of the student plan, is also increasing in power, with 9000 applications registered in this year's year. However, I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, to the guarantee of student loans by Bpifrance. The €2 million envelope of this guarantee fund is insufficient – it is completely consumed within a few weeks. It is a functioning mechanism, and the Court of Auditors has pointed out the important leverage effect. It is essential to increase staffing. On behalf of the Committee on Finance, I will present an amendment to that effect. Finally, at the mission level, it seems to me essential that the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, the State Real Estate Directorate and the Directorate of the Budget carry out an extensive reflection, in the continuation, in particular, of the work of our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei, on the energy renovation of the university building. Today, it is quite paradoxical to see that researchers who think tomorrow's energy solutions work daily in thermal colanders. The university's housing stock accounts for nearly 20 million square metres. The campus plan was a real effort, but it could only involve about fifteen institutions and it is coming to an end. Investing in this area means reducing the carbon footprint, saving on heating bills and promoting the attractiveness of our campuses. Investing in universities attended by nearly 2.5 million students, users and staff may seem at least as urgent as investing in administrative cities, for example. Unlocking access to bank credit to change a boiler can be climate and fiscally virtuous, while participating, Madam Minister, in your very proactive orientations to enhance the value of academic heritage. The solutions exist and must strike the right balance between the autonomy and responsibility of universities. I therefore solemnly invite the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation to begin a profound reflection on this subject with national representation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To these points, and while welcoming the remarkable commitment of the Government and the Minister, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the appropriations for programmes 150 and 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u8	Mrs Danièle Hérin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u9	2020 can be analysed as a transitional exercise for the research budget, while a multi-year research programming law, known as the PPR Act, is being prepared. This law is intended to apply from 2021, after its examination in Parliament in the first half of 2020 – I will come back to that earlier. Pending the guidelines laid down in this text, this budget is in line with the two previous financial years. He continues the important effort made since 2017 to redress the funding of MIRES, the mission "Research and Higher Education". Within the scope of research alone, appropriations increased by EUR 310 million, an increase of 2.05 %, to almost EUR 15.5 billion. I will focus on Program 172, which brings the funds from most research organizations, from CNRS to INSERM – the National Institute of Health and Medical Research – to INRIA – the National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Automation – and the future INRAE. The programme's payment appropriations amount to EUR 6.94 billion and commitment authorisations increase by EUR 118 million. For research organisations, public service subsidies are up by €75 million. The ANR's commitment capacity is increasing by EUR 30 million as a result of the decrease in the reserve rate. In particular, programme 172 provides for additional resources for the development of the national plan for artificial intelligence, to which an additional €21 million will be allocated, as well as for PPCR wage measures – career paths, careers and remuneration. The 2020 budget is also marked by a sharp increase in the resources devoted to space research. The European Space Agency, ESA, will thus benefit from an additional €226 million, which will enable France to clear its debt and thereby retain its position as a European leader. These appropriations will contribute to the financing of ongoing programmes and those to be launched at the next ESA Ministerial Council, to be held in Seville next November. The year 2020 is expected to prove significant for French and European space policy with the completion of the Ariane 6 programme, the first flight of which is scheduled for July, and the arrival in full operational capacity of the Galileo system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u10	I would like to shed some light on the financing of research and technology transfer by local and regional authorities, mainly the regions as leaders in these areas: this expenditure amounts to around EUR 1 billion. They cover technology transfer and support operations for innovative enterprises, real estate operations and support for researchers. It is important to better coordinate these territorial financings with those made by the State and its operators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u11	I will conclude by referring to the future law of research programming. The definition of a multi-annual framework will allow for the long duration of the research to be taken into account and for the laboratories to be made more visible. This text raises strong expectations within the scientific community. A report submitted to the Government at the end of September proposes measures that are important to be implemented, including the strengthening of career attractiveness, the development of basic laboratory support, the increase in the rate of selection of calls for projects and the rate of the NRA precipitate. More broadly, we must maintain the objective of increasing research spending to 3% of our GDP – this share was still 2.2% in 2018 despite the progress made since 2017. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which met last Wednesday, delivered an opinion in favour of the adoption of these appropriations and I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u12	Mr Philippe Berta, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u13	The finance bill for 2020 provides for an increase in the higher education budget, which had already marked the 2018 and 2019 financial years. Combined, the 150 and 231 programmes saw their appropriations increase by 1.8% in commitment authorities and by 1.5% in payment appropriations. The effort is particularly strong for the 231 "Student Life" program, whose credits increase by 2.5%. I welcome the Government's renewed commitment to the higher education of our youth, which is a guarantee of innovation, competitiveness and scientific excellence. These increased appropriations reflect the continuation of the important reforms undertaken since the beginning of this legislature in higher education, but also the opening of new projects. With regard to the reforms already launched, the increase allows the continuation of the student plan, in particular the opening of additional places in licence, the improvement of the Parcoursup platform and the setting up of the "yes if" routes. She also participates in the further upgrading of careers through the protocol "professional career paths, careers and remuneration". With regard to the new reforms, the financial effort will allow the implementation of several mechanisms. I am thinking first of the reform of health studies. The first year common to health studies – CAPES – should be replaced by three access routes to health studies, including a first general academic year, commonly referred to as the "health portal". It will also be possible to integrate health training through a bachelor's degree in any discipline at the student's discretion if it incorporates a "minor health." EUR 17 million is foreseen for the implementation of this reform, of which EUR 6 million was disbursed as from 1 October. I want to welcome this new organization of health studies. It will put an end to the many failures at the end of the first year, diversify the profile of our future physicians and simplify the reorientation for students who have failed in the competitions. It will, however, have to be accompanied by sufficient communication efforts not only with high school students but also with teachers and teachers-researchers. Institutions should also be given sufficient visibility of the means at their disposal to carry it out. This draft finance law marks the beginning of the implementation of an English-language certification for undergraduate students: €3.1 million is devoted to this project to enable the certification of 38,000 students. This certification has to be gradually extended to all students by the beginning of 2022. I welcome this measure, which seems indispensable in order to improve the professional integration of students, both internationally and in France. Student life credits are also on the rise. As a result, aid for international mobility has increased its funding by 12%. This will make it possible to implement the commitment of the President of the Republic, who, in his speech by the Sorbonne, said that by 2024, half of an age group should have spent at least six months in another European country before the age of 25. Social grants show an increase of €46 million in their credits due to a 2.3% forecast increase in the number of student fellows and a 1.1% increase in the rate of grants. It should be noted that this is the first increase in this rate since 2016. Among the innovations of this budget is also the extension of the strategic and management dialogue to seventy universities, following a first experiment last year in ten institutions. This is a procedure for exchanges between institutions and their trustees concerning their budget and strategic projects. It aims to encourage institutions to develop a multi-year vision of their strategy and funding and to better reward quality establishment projects. It will also encourage institutions to develop strategies with all financiers on their territory. This new exercise should be very useful for medium-sized or modest universities, which will be invited to better highlight their specificities. It should also stimulate interdisciplinarity within institutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Béatrice Descamps also applauds]] In total, it is therefore a very significant effort that is being made in this finance bill in favour of higher education. The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which met last Wednesday, has taken note of this progress by giving an opinion in favour of the adoption of these appropriations, as I invited it to do, and as I once again invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u14	Mr Lioger, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u15	For the third year in a row, I have the opportunity to present the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the appropriations of the major research organisations. It is a great pleasure for the academic that I am to address these questions. I would like to begin my speech by mentioning Europe's successes in space under the impetus of France: do you know, for example, that the number of users of the European geolocation system Galileo has just exceeded one billion people and that at the moment I am talking to you, your own smartphone is probably connected to the app? Beyond this success, there is also the discreet work of tens of thousands of scientific personnel working to advance their field of knowledge. On this point, let us not hide that material and human resources do not always meet expectations, and some research organisations are now recruiting permanent staff who have accumulated two or even three postdoctoral research contracts. In the face of this situation, the State had to react and that was what it had been doing for the past two years. The payment appropriations of the research and higher education mission are increased to 28.68 billion euros in the draft finance law for 2020, which represents an increase of more than 500 million euros compared to 2019. Between 2018 and 2020, the cumulative increase in the Mission's appropriations is more than €1.7 billion. In this context, through the funds allocated to the Centre national d'études spatiales, the CNES, the main operator of the 193 programme, France is again increasing its contribution to the European Space Agency by more than EUR 200 million. With regard to programme 172, which brings together most of the major national research organisations, the stability of payment appropriations, at EUR 6.94 billion, is mainly due to the completion of the recovery of the intervention capacity of the National Research Agency in 2018 and 2019. Apart from ANR, the programme's appropriations continue to increase by EUR 121.50 million. Despite this increase, there is still uncertainty as to what allocations will actually be allocated to agencies. According to the information provided to me during the hearing, a reserve rate of 4 % instead of 3 % could be applied to appropriations under programme 172, excluding Title 2. This mechanism would significantly reduce the Department's flexibility to meet the one-time needs of organizations in the fiscal year. I therefore call on the Government not to resort to such a plank, which would penalize, inter alia, the nuclear activities of ECA and the major health plans of INSERM. Finally, as last year, my report focused on the mechanisms for valuing public research and, more particularly this year, on the companies for accelerating technology transfer, the SATTs. Despite the criticisms they have sometimes faced, these structures are ideally positioned to connect universities and economic actors. Their performance is increasingly remarkable, as can be measured by the number of start-ups created and patents filed. The development of the SATTs, however, suffers from obstacles which are essentially linked to the objective of profitability assigned to them in the medium term and to the complexity of the legal framework for managing innovation in co-ownership. In this regard, I welcome the prospects for simplification offered by the so-called CAPTE law on business growth and transformation regarding the often very cumbersome procedures for appointing the single agent. I will conclude my speech by referring to the future prospects offered by the future multi-annual research programming law, of which it is little to say that it is much expected by the academic and research community. I have taken note of the conclusions made to the Prime Minister by the three working groups on 23 September, in the presence of the Minister of Research. All their recommendations seem bold and challenging to me. I note that the first group has focused on strengthening the intervention capacity of the ANR and aligning the French system with European standards. I will not surprise you by telling you that this proposal has a strong consensus on my part. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In view of the discussions which will be taking place next year on these various subjects, I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention and, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for giving a very favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for the research and higher education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u16	Mrs Elsa Faucillon, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u17	The work carried out for this opinion leads me to summarize it as follows: the financial efforts, which must be noted, essentially enable France to fulfil international commitments. This is of course commendable, but I must stress the weakness of the resources devoted to the major challenges of sustainable development and adaptation to climate change. If these were really priorities, this should be reflected in the figures and commitments we are discussing tonight. But that's not the case! Of course, the three programmes that fund research in these areas will see their funding increase again in 2020, and substantially, but these additional funds will almost entirely complement the funding of past commitments. This is true of the EUR 214 million affluence of the space research programme, which will finally make it possible to make up for our late payment to the European Space Agency. As for the €118 million supplement promised to the programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research", it will finance the effect in 2020 of the wage measures granted in 2017 and of the artificial intelligence plan launched in 2018. This is also true of the 190 programme "Research in the fields of sustainable energy, development and mobility", which will increase by €28 million to finance research on fourth generation nuclear reactors. While this draft budget, fortunately, bears the impact of past commitments, it does not reflect strong ambitions for energy transition. As you know, the many citizens – especially young people – mobilized by the climate emergency are demanding action. However, neither research in future themes nor the means of action of operators are strengthened, on the contrary. Thus, for several years, the subsidies for public service charges of operators do not take account of the increase in staff costs caused by the technical old age shift, the GVT. According to the calculations of the line ministries, the loss of profits amounts to around 30 million euros per year. This increasing pressure on their payroll has forced research organizations not only to give up the necessary recruitment, but even to reduce their workforce. In public science and technology institutions alone, EPSTs, more than 3,530 jobs were sacrificed between 2012 and 2018. There will therefore be no additional investment, through operator grants or national call envelopes, to strengthen research for sustainable development or even the energy transition, despite the urgency of the situation. That is why I hope that the amendment approved by the Committee on Sustainable Development, aimed at providing resources for the hydrogen plan – a commitment made by the President of the Republic in 2018, but which is not reflected in the budget under implementation or in the draft finance bill for 2020 – will win your support. We all agree, research is a key to our ability to respond to the increasingly difficult challenges facing our planet – and therefore, our humanity. It is it that allows us to understand natural and physical phenomena, and it is it that is most able to blow up certain locks and to bring out lasting solutions. Even as the resources devoted to nuclear research are growing significantly, I note that the appropriations for research on renewable energies are not progressing. They would even tend to decline, as evidenced by the decline in some state subsidies and the threat of an increase in the precautionary reserve applied to budgetary allocations. Fortunately, a few research organizations are able, through their perseverance, to maintain their investments. But they themselves could see their room for action decrease again in 2020, and their difficulties in recruiting the skills needed to meet the new challenges could worsen. The stagnation – not to say the deterioration – of the research resources dedicated to the energy transition is unjustifiable in view of the €6.5 billion in tax credit research that the Government is able to grant to national companies, some of which are notoriously flimsy with regard to these emerging themes, despite the strong ambitions proclaimed by the Government in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Research is about exploring and understanding the threats that some of us are already seriously affected by in order to better eliminate them. It is also, and perhaps most importantly, ensuring our progress and our collective future. In the light of these arguments, I personally give an unfavorable opinion on the appropriations for the research and higher education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u18	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u19	All budgets are important for the life of our country, but higher education and research have the particularity of making us take responsibility for the future, i.e. for the younger generations. This budget calls for thinking about the future, which implies taking a part of risk. It is thanks to the bets taken by our elders on the future that France has created a school of mathematics that has become the second in the world – of which we have a prominent representative in this Chamber. It is also thanks to these bets that France now has a Nobel-winning woman in economics, Esther Duflo. It was thanks to these bets that the French laboratories were able to impose themselves and transmit the taste of research to many students. I know, minister, your leitmotiv that this budget is on the increase. That is true: it increases facially by 535 million euros between the 2019 Finance Act and the 2020 Finance Bill. That should be stressed. However, I would like to show that this increase, however significant, will not be enough to solve the equation that our country is facing. If we believe that knowledge is a real asset, that it is valuable and that it must be widely shared, more needs to be done. The examination of expenditure per student, calculated on the basis of the 150 "Superior Training and University Research" programme and the 231 "Student Life" programme, reveals the following data, including inflation: from 6061 euros in 2017, they fell to 5915 euros in 2018 and then to 5884 euros in 2019. While the subject cannot be reduced to budgetary expenditure, this development is still unsatisfactory. It started before 2017, and your policy undeniably perpetuates this decline in spending per student. The analysis of the data you present in the budget documents – the famous blue ones – is also revealing. Thus, in programme 150, the percentage of an age group obtaining a diploma from higher education in initial training has declined since 2017. The licensing rate in three and four years also decreases in 2019. In programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research", France is ranked eighth in the world in terms of the number of articles published. There is also a decline in the share of international reference publications by programme operators in global scientific production. I am just quoting the figures from your budget documents, minister. All of these indicators – your indicators – show a setback that seems problematic to us. The Socialist and Allied Group and I have tabled amendments which are solutions that can counter this unfavourable trend. Our amendments aim to ensure that expenditure on public research reaches 1% of GDP. We also propose the creation of 2000 research posts, at a budget cost of EUR 100 million estimated on the basis of the data you have submitted to us. Last July, the extraordinary session of the National Committee for Scientific Research, which I attended, made a bitter observation: 300 positions of researchers and 800 positions of engineers and technicians disappeared between 2010 and 2017. It is true that at the time you were not in charge, minister. But today, that is the case, and it is up to you to breathe new life into research – especially since when you arrived in 2017, you had restored room for manoeuvre and economic growth, which you are not making full use of in this budget. [[Marie-Georges Buffet, Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Muriel Ressiguier applaud]] We want researchers to be able to regain freedom. Last year, I pointed out, as an illustration, that it was not by improving the candle that electricity was discovered. Research involves avoiding the need to work in isolation, which means removing calls for projects and giving real budget lines to laboratories. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] As far as students are concerned, our amendments aim to increase the appropriations for restoration; to improve Parcoursup, which still has some failures; to compensate for the decline in resources that universities will suffer as a result of your sponsorship reform; and finally, to increase the credits for foreign and French students with the lowest means, in order to reduce the fees to a level consistent with, in particular, the decision of the Constitutional Council of 11 October 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u20	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u21	The Government is presenting us with a budget that is 1.9 per cent higher than in 2019. We welcome this increase in the current economic context, while noting that it remains relative, both higher education and research suffer from a lack of funding. This is not a recent situation, but a briefing note issued last Friday by the Directorate of Evaluation, Prospectiveness and Performance reveals that the average expenditure per student has reached its lowest level since 2008. Before entering the budget debate, the UDI Group, Action and Independents, Madam Minister, would like to know how the Government intends to understand the decision of the Constitutional Council of 11 October, in which it bases the requirement of free public higher education on the preamble of the 1946 Constitution, stating that there is no obstacle to the collection of modest registration fees. We renew our support for your initiative to promote the accessibility of large schools to scholarship students. It should be noted that public higher education has 38% scholarship holders, compared with 19% at the École Normale Supérieure or 11% at Polytechnique. Of course, we support the upgrading of student scholarships. Unfortunately, a large number of students are forced to devote a significant part of their time to a job in order to support their needs – time that they cannot devote to their studies. Our group will defend an amendment to revise the national scale of grants on social criteria. The latter does not take into account the specificities of the territories, and thus affects a number of students, particularly in Pacific communities. In the same vein, our group has tabled an amendment calling for intensified efforts to build student housing in order to achieve the target of 60000 new housing units by 2022. France spends 2.2% of its GDP on domestic R & D spending, i.e. around EUR 50.2 billion, while the European target is set at 3%. We will open a debate on the resources allocated to research, both in cancer prevention and in the fight against Lyme disease. We will also introduce an amendment to upgrade the state's allocation to Bpifrance, which increased from 250 million euros to 120 million euros between 2011 and 2019. The result of this reduction without compensation was to reduce the number of cases funded by Bpifrance by almost a third, even though this scheme is an essential pillar of French innovation. We will also come back to the lack of resources for art and design research, which is gradually weakening an entire ecosystem. Finally, we would like to make you aware, Madam Minister, of the importance of training in inclusive management for students in higher education enrolled in managerial courses, both in initial and continuing training. This training would promote access to the labour market for persons with disabilities, by preparing employers and human resources managers to accommodate them in the best possible way within enterprises. Before concluding, we welcome your ministry's commitment to €5 million in paediatric cancer research. This funding should facilitate the implementation of emerging projects. [[Applause on a few benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mr. Francis Chouat also applauds]] The IUD group, acting and independent, will vote in favour of the appropriations of the mission "Research and higher education". Nevertheless, we hope to obtain encouraging answers to the questions we raise and to the amendments we propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u22	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u23	The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the increase in higher education and research funding, which confirms the direction taken since 2017. The PLF for 2020 is drawing a satisfactory path with regard to the €500 million student plan target. We will pay attention to the use of these credits, and in particular to the correction of the imperfections of the Parcoursup platform. By the beginning of 2019, 1175 bachelors were still waiting for a proposal, and many pointed to inequalities in the number of proposals received by candidates. Will this budget be able to finance the necessary improvements? That's one of our questions. We are also dubious about the reform of health studies and its ability to meet a major objective: the fight against medical desertification. EUR 17 million is foreseen to enable universities to deploy this reform, of which EUR 6 million has already been disbursed. What actions do these investments translate into? That's another question. Other measures appear to be in the right direction, such as an increase in the number of grants awarded on social criteria in the preparatory classes, or an increase of 1.1 per cent in the grants awarded on social criteria. We also note with satisfaction the recent decision of the Constitutional Council on the principle of free public higher education. As my colleague M'jid El Guerrab pointed out, the increase in registration fees for non-Community students would have adversely affected the attractiveness of the French university. In addition, we would like to draw your attention to the issue of student housing and rent prices. The government set a target of 600,000 new student housing units in 2022. In the meantime, the number of these dwellings remains lower than needs, especially in the Paris region. Energy renovation of the university park is also required. Similarly, there is a great deal of concern about clause 50 of this bill. How does the government intend to compensate for the financial loss for higher education institutions resulting from the reduction in the tax reduction rate in favour of sponsorship for payments in excess of EUR 2 million? In this regard, we regret the decrease in funding allocated to the National Research Agency. We will present in the medical field an amendment by Jeanine Dubie aimed at increasing the means of research on Lyme disease, and in the energy field an amendment by Matthieu Orphelin in favour of the deployment of hydrogen. Human progress has always gone through scientific advances and the technological revolutions that have resulted from them. There lies the immense responsibility of research. It is therefore necessary to make this sector more attractive by increasing remuneration, increasing mobility, increasing our international visibility, and upgrading the PhD. We call for increased public investment in the essential sector of artificial intelligence, and more generally in basic and applied research. Among other priorities, we must engage in strong and focused research for a true technological revolution. Research needs to be stepped up in terms of equipment, processes, and the contours of a massive investment plan in the ecological and solidarity transition. We need to make progress in the intelligence of objects, in renewable energy technologies, in building, in transport and in logistics, in communication and in agriculture. This is not an option, but an obligation: we cannot continue to look at a future based on fossil fuels that are in the process of exhaustion. It should be recalled that the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, considers that in order to avoid mass extinction, it is imperative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by almost half. The painful challenges and the progress required for this transition are conceived. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] This will also go through our territories. We call for a better articulation of local and national funding. There is a need to develop a joint approach between the State and local and regional authorities, and to encourage their ownership of national research support tools. These issues must be at the heart of our debate and, more broadly, at the centre of the review of the future multi-year research programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u24	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u25	The budget of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation amounts to €25.49 billion, and you proudly announce, Madam Minister, an increase of €500 million. However, according to trade unions and some directors of higher education institutions, this budget will not be able to cope with the increase in the number of students, nor with the application of the so-called ORE law of 8 March 2018. France spends 2.2% of its GDP on research, of which only 0.76% is for the public, far from the 3% target of the Lisbon strategy. The national research union advocates an annual increase of EUR 1 billion to reach the 1% threshold for public research funding in ten years. However, the draft finance law foresees € 6.94 billion for this programme, as in 2019, a 1% decrease given inflation. In addition, the ANR payment appropriations decreased by 14.3%, to EUR 738 million instead of EUR 860 million in 2019. At a time when we are facing many societal and environmental challenges, this budget is not up to date; he lacks ambition. In higher education, the loss of university autonomy is increasing, the quality of teaching is deteriorating and the university fleet is declining. The logic of selection is always to be emphasized: by aggravating the inequalities of orientation, Parcoursup calls into question the democratization of higher education. Thus, on 19 July, at the end of the main phase of Parcoursup, 58724 candidates had not received a proposal; Among them, 12% of bachelor's degrees from the technological fields and 22% of those from the professional path, compared with 8% and 14% respectively in 2018. We do not know what these candidates have become: it is possible that many of them have abandoned their study projects, for lack of proposals in the field of interest to them. In addition, students are increasingly affected by insecurity, which sometimes makes their study conditions very difficult. Their expenditure is increasing, but no compensation is proposed. According to a survey by UNEF, the Union nationale des étudiants de France (Union nationale des étudiants de France), the overall cost of student living has increased by 2.83%, twice as much as inflation. Housing, feeding, accessing care, moving around become challenges students face on a daily basis. Nearly one in two is obliged to engage in gainful activity rather than devote themselves fully to their studies. Far from enabling their emancipation, higher education reinforces social determinism, from which to emerge becomes a feat. As far as research is concerned, you unlock the doors between the public and the private sector and organise the flight of public investment to businesses. The state employs researchers without really giving them the means to work. There are two main sources of funding: the public service subsidy, used for salaries and the operation of laboratories, and the so-called "competitive" resources allocated by tender. However, for several years now, the balance between "basic" and "competitive" credits has been broken. It is still the market logic that guides you: in fact, competitive credits usually fund research on objectives, while a recurring budget allows more exploratory research, whose goal is not profitability in the short or medium term. In addition, working conditions are deteriorating. The lack of staff is felt in the laboratories. In 2016, there were 1,4456 researchers in the public, 1.6% more than in 2009. But over the same period, a decrease of 0.9% in the so-called "research support" category – managers, secretaries and technicians – forced researchers to carry out ever more administrative tasks. In addition, precarious jobs are increasing: 30% of postdoctoral researchers are in CSDs; INRA hires 43% contract workers, and CNRS 22%. Renovation of the real estate assets alone would require an investment of €7 billion. Researchers often work in under-equipped laboratories; They also suffer from a lack of recognition, and their ill-being is on the rise. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applauds]] Faithful to your belief in a "start-up nation" and in the commodification of knowledge, you develop precariousness and competition in higher education and research. The State withdraws a little more; private ownership of the public continues. The Group of the European People's Party does not share this concept of knowledge, which, for us, must be a factor of emancipation in the service of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u26	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u27	[[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] "It is not by improving the candle that electricity has been invented": this famous phrase by Niels Bohr, Nobel Prize laureate in physics, expresses the very essence of research – the discovery, sometimes accidental, in any case far from a purely utilitarian aim of scientific activity. The research world in France has enormous human and institutional potential. But, despite the increase in the budget, researchers report on their ill-being, their difficulty in carrying out their missions, and more generally a lack of recognition and a loss of sense of their activity. Academic freedom, freedom of research, is increasingly constrained by insufficient budgetary appropriations, but also by a system of allocation of funds that meets ever more restricted criteria. The burdensome administrative tasks, the lack of financial visibility and the ever-increasing precariousness of posts contribute to the stagnation of our public research. The widespread use of call-for-project funding, particularly through the ANR, raises questions. The very low success rate – 16% – and the decline in the average budget per project since 2010 reveal the limitations of this system. The multi-annual research programming law will have to address this problem as a matter of priority by increasing the core funding, in order to allow for more free, more exploratory research. We must dare to take the risk of unmanned financing, because many of the great discoveries come from such initiatives. While in the economic world the emphasis is on innovation and the valorisation of risk-taking, it is regrettable that this reflection is not transposed into the field of public research. In addition, the precarization of researchers, researchers and staff assisting them is increasing. The decline in permanent jobs and the proliferation of CSDs are contributing to the weakening of our research. The recruitment of lecturers decreased by 36 per cent between 2012 and 2018. At INRA, 43 per cent of staff are contract staff. However, the use of the CSD must be the exception. This is in line with my previous remarks: a freer, more independent search requires stable posts. I am therefore concerned about projects of conditional tenure or CDI of scientific mission. Everything that makes employment precarious mechanically weakens our research system. Psychosocial risks are increasingly present there; On this point, we must hear the warnings of the unions. At the CNRS, the 2016 social balance sheet reported 955 permanent and 87 contract workers under supervision, in particular for psychosocial risks. With regard to higher education, the increase of 175 million euros and the increase of 67 million euros for student life do not cover the needs related to the increase in student demography. Between 2011 and 2018, the budget per student increased from 11,000 euros to 10300 euros. Our country will have 2.8 million students in 2022, an increase of 6.7% since 2017: this is a very good thing, because the challenges facing humanity call for knowledge and skills; But higher education must have the financial means to receive them. In addition to this, competition between universities is becoming more and more intense, due to their autonomy, to the pursuit of labels, to groups that too often operate under questionable conditions. This could lead to multi-speed higher education, which would be relegated between the major structures meeting the international criteria and the other institutions. However, it is an open and accessible university that our country needs. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Mr. Alain David and Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applaud]] The Constitutional Council has just enshrined the principle of free higher education: I take this opportunity to ask the Government once again to reconsider the increase in fees for non-community students, which is unfair, discriminatory and contrary to the very essence of the university. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Finally, the Democratic and Republican Left expresses serious doubts about the budget dedicated to supporting disability in higher education institutions, which has remained strictly the same since 2015, while the number of pupils concerned is increasing – which we must welcome. For all these reasons, Members of my group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u28	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u29	The budget you are submitting to us, Madam Minister, for the research and higher education mission amounts to almost €28.7 billion, of which almost €25.5 billion corresponds to the appropriations of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. These appropriations are increased by 500 million for 2020, resulting in an increase of 1.7 billion euros since the beginning of the quinquennium. During the presidential campaign, the candidate Emmanuel Macron promised that the budget for higher education and research would be sanctified. We note with great satisfaction that this promise is not only fulfilled, but significantly exceeded. This increase reflects the majority's commitment to a ministry responsible for building the future of our country through the formation of the younger generations, the expansion and dissemination of knowledge, and the technological progress that enables the transformation of our society. We will follow this path carefully, hoping that it will continue, with the 3% of national GDP devoted to research and development as its horizon; The effort in this area, and therefore the dynamics of innovations, are more than ever a condition for a country's economic performance. Among the programs that the mission includes, I will only take up the most emblematic of this budget. As far as higher education is concerned, all credits are increasing. The finance bill for 2020 continues to build on the student plan put in place in 2018 to solve the problem of university saturation. No less than 38,000 places were created in the first and second years in the voltage systems. Accompaniment schemes and pathways have been set up to promote student success, as provided for in the Student Guidance and Success Act. An additional €43 million will open up new places, while €6 million will be allocated to accompany the new arrangements for access to health studies in universities. Because success must be that of everyone, regardless of social origin, the means devoted to student life increase by 2.5%, which represents an additional 67 million through the upgrading of scholarships on social criteria at the beginning of 2019 and that of international mobility aids. The commitments made during the Sorbonne speech will be fulfilled: by 2024, half of the students must have lived, before their 25th birthday, at least six months in another European country. And because success must be that of everyone, regardless of geographical origin, the mobility aid Courseup and the help for mobility master are renewed. With regard to the research component, the amounts and their distribution among the various programmes remain relatively stable. It should be noted, however, that funding for artificial intelligence research is increasing significantly to €38 million, reflecting the commitments made by the President of the Republic in the framework of the national plan. In addition, the remuneration of research staff will be increased by EUR 28 million. If it is a programme with a very substantial increase in funding, it is that of space research. I regret in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education that we are not talking enough about this area, both in our committee and in the Chamber, when it is of fundamental strategic interest in terms of sovereignty, economic development – especially since the digital revolution – and scientific knowledge. The space sector is concentrating a particular effort, resulting in an 11.7 % increase in budgetary appropriations, for a total of just over EUR 2 billion. This increase will allow us to finally clear our debt to the European Space Agency and to contribute to the many projects under way. In particular, the year 2020 will see the first flight of our new Ariane 6 launcher scheduled for September, as well as the full operational capability of Galileo, which will allow Europe to have its own positioning system and no longer depend on the United States in this regard. We also welcome the fact that the Franco-German Council of Ministers on 16 October made it possible to adopt a common position on the "European preference" for satellite launches, in order to ensure that we have independent access to space. Given the substantial sums we devote to ESA – France is the largest contributor – it is important that we have some return. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Republic Group will therefore support this budget. We also welcome the fact that this finance bill for 2020 is the last of its kind with regard to the research programme and that it is accompanied by multi-year programming as early as 2021. French research needs a certain visibility, freedom and ever greater resources; the new tool will have to meet its expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u30	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u31	In its entirety, the research and higher education section of the finance bill for 2020 is positive since additional funding is being provided – notably through the space research programme, amounting to €212 million. However, everyone knows that the devil is hiding in detail, and you will allow me, on behalf of the Republican Group, to express some reservations and to express our concerns to you. First of all, the reform of health studies, decided in the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, has ended the PACES, which obliges universities to enroll in Parcoursup courses with the addition of the new "minor health". Universities will have to recruit and change training models. However, only €6 million has been earmarked to finance this transition. Is that enough? The reform is supposed to respond to the difficulties of access to care in the territories, but in order for it to be properly implemented and to bear fruit, the necessary resources must be made available. As far as higher education is concerned, a renovation of the real estate assets of universities is indispensable and indeed demanded by their presidents. It could also be a lever of the energy transition that everyone calls for. However, there is no provision for financing it: the Government refuses any contribution. In our discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs, however, the rapporteur shared our view on this subject. As far as research is concerned, we will remain vigilant about the reality of the actions that the Government could undertake in the months and years to come. The multi-year research programming bill, which is to be tabled soon for application from 2021 onwards, will thus be a major challenge for the development of efficient and strategic research in an increasingly competitive international context. I would also like to focus on research in the agricultural sector. As agriculture is about to develop a new model, it is research that will enable us to find alternative solutions and support our farmers in this transition, with the aim of ensuring the quality of our food and respect for the environment and meeting the expectations of consumers. However, the means are not available to make such a transition. A more massive investment in agricultural research would help to respond to the crisis in the sector while leading the profession to adopt even more environmentally friendly practices. But only an additional €4 million will be allocated under the 142 "Higher Education and Agricultural Research" programme, which is very small in view of the ambitious announcements. On January 1st, INRA will merge with IRSTEA to become the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment, INRAE. The draft finance law for 2020, however, only provides for an additional €2.5 million to accompany the reconciliation between the staff of the two institutes. INRA has seventeen regional centres and is located in more than 150 sites in metropolitan France and overseas. IRSTEA has nine regional centres. There may be a need for new infrastructure and targets. Under these conditions, the sum of EUR 2.5 million seems to be insufficient. Finally, let me alert you to the effects of section 50 of the finance bill, and more specifically to the proposed reduction in the corporate sponsorship tax credit, which would increase from 60% to 40% for companies that have donated more than €2 million. Such a measure would be detrimental to university resources and to private funding of research. Failure to do so would require exceptions for higher education, research and innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] While we can welcome the increase in funding for all the programmes of the "Higher Education and Research" mission, this budget does not allow us to accompany the two essential transitions: the energy transition, with the renovation of our university parks, and the agricultural transition which must satisfy the needs of farmers and the requirements of consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u34	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u35	The finance bill for 2020 strengthens the budget of the Ministry of Higher Education and Research as its appropriations are further increased, thus continuing the trajectory launched since the 2018 budget. We welcome the Government's commitment to the rehabilitation of our higher education. He will certainly find broad support in this House. Among the reforms that this budget supports is the Student Orientation and Success Act, which was passed in the first few months of our mandate. The continuation of the student plan, the improvement of the Courseup platform, the introduction of appropriate pathways, the reform of health studies, the support for space research, the introduction of an English-language certification for all students, the open library plan are all measures to be taken to the advantage of the Government and the majority, which are already bearing fruit. Thus, the credits of Action 1, "Initial and Continuing Baccalaureate Training" increase. The 150 program is up 3.8% this year to support training in the early years, so crucial for further education. The device of the custom license seems to me to be one of the most important in the student plan. The institutions have understood the usefulness of this; They have offered adapted courses and refresher courses that have attracted a lot of interest from young students to the point that this year more than 100,000 similar proposals have been made, 72% more than in 2018. An evaluation of this measure seems to us useful. The additional appropriations for 2020, amounting to EUR 43 million, will support this policy and will open new places under licence. The distribution will have to be decided within the framework of the strategic and management dialogue, a relevant tool for the integration of universities and schools into their territories. The student plan also contains numerous measures to improve student life. Its increased appropriations are included in Program 231. The budget supports actions as important as the Visale guarantee, grants on social criteria, merit grants, aid for international mobility, assistance for mobility Coursup, renovation and construction of student housing or improvement of access to health services. We will be paying attention to the next presentation of the appropriations for these programmes. In this regard, our colleague Philippe Berta regretted that the presentation of the Mission's budget was no clearer. In particular, the EUR 435 million in payment appropriations included in this year's programme 421 "Supporting progress in teaching and research of the mission Investment programmes for the future" should be added, which would provide strong arguments against criticisms such as those currently expressed by Valérie Rabault. We will also have to remain attentive to the management of the guarantee fund for bank loans contracted by students, managed by Bpifrance. We will pay particular attention to the debate on the amendment tabled by Fabrice Le Vigoureux. As for the increase in tuition fees for extra-European students, I regret that the decision was taken outside the budget discussions. The debates in the Assembly would certainly have raised the contentious issues which the Constitutional Council has not failed to raise, while guaranteeing the necessary parliamentary control. The budget for the "Research" section is increasing in turn. This long-term support is particularly welcome as major projects are opened and international competition is intensifying. I am thinking in particular of space research or that in the fields of energy, development and sustainable mobility. This transitional budget will have to be consolidated in order to meet the objectives set out in the Multiannual Research Programming Act, which is scheduled to be reviewed in the first half of 2020. Again, we will ensure that the Government's ambition since the beginning of the legislature is confirmed to be close to the 3% of GDP spent on research. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement endorses these just and ambitious objectives and will vote on the budget appropriations proposed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u36	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u37	It is with great pleasure that we open this afternoon the examination of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020. As has been recalled, MIRES is the last inter-ministerial budgetary programme under the Organic Law on Finance Laws and is a priority mission for the Government. Everyone can understand this: preparing for the future of the nation and asserting our national sovereignty means financing higher education and scientific research in all its forms. For the year 2020, the budget of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation consists of EUR 25.35 billion in payment appropriations, excluding contributions to the Pensions Trust Account. With an increase of 500 million euros compared to 2019, MIRES is one of the priority tasks of the State; This effort alone accounts for 10% of the new appropriations. In the area of research, 2020 will focus on the preparation and review of the multi-year research programming bill announced by the Prime Minister last February. This decisive year should allow us to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the unprecedented alignment of the calendars of the next CPER – State-region plan contracts – the PPR law and the European Horizon Europe programme, which is, I would remind you, the most important programme currently being prepared in the world. The decline reflected in the indicators mentioned a few moments ago is the result of sometimes old choices which led to a stagnation in the budget devoted to French research. We had to react. We have therefore chosen to increase the budget for higher education and research by EUR 3.7 billion in three years. As you know – this is a conviction that I remind you every year – we must not oppose support for project financing and the development of basic appropriations. For example, this budget will increase the ANR's commitment resources by €32.7 million, while providing an additional €25 million for laboratory core funding. The same applies to support for the Carnot institutes, increased this year by EUR 5 million. The artificial intelligence plan will rise in power from EUR 17 million to EUR 38 million, an increase of more than 100 %. The INRIA will also launch exploratory projects, particularly in the field of artificial intelligence, thus marking the priority given by my ministry to this crucial project for the future. This budget also pays particular attention to the employment and attractiveness of scientific careers, particularly within research organisations. With almost €28 million allocated to the PPCR, it will support their human resources policies. In addition, an additional €12 million will be allocated to the CNRS, which will be able to deploy an average "host pack" of €10000 from 2020 for its new research staff, totalling €2.5 million. Attractiveness is also one of INRIA's priorities, which will introduce new mechanisms to attract young talent. My ministry will support the creation of INRAE by providing it with an additional €2.5 million compared to the current combined budgets of INRA and IRSTEA. INRAE will organize and coordinate all scientific and technological research in the fields of agriculture, food, forest, environment, water, biodiversity, bio-economy, circular economy, sustainable land management and risk prevention. As you will understand, this new organization will allow us to display a renewed scientific ambition and meet the major global challenges in these sectors. Support for equipment and infrastructure is also essential for the coming year. In space, an additional €226 million will be dedicated to meeting France's commitments to ESA and close to €15 million will support the activities of the CNES – Centre national d'études spatiales. A few weeks before the Seville conference, it is indeed crucial to affirm, in space matters, our country's leading role on a European scale. The 2020 budget will provide an additional €21 million for the financing of major research infrastructures, including €7 million for the maintenance of our ocean research fleet. Finally, more than €7.5 million will be devoted to the development of research platforms and data centres. In addition, EUR 60 million has already been mobilised in support of climate research, notably through the investment programme for the future since the announcement of the President of the Republic's programme. As you mentioned, Madam draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, at the same time we paid back debts that others had not hesitated to contract on behalf of France. As you know, as far as paediatric cancer is concerned, my ministry, attentive to the guidelines laid down by Parliament, launched last January the instrument for mobilising fundamental research in the fight against all forms of paediatric cancer. Five million euros have been earmarked for this purpose, not to mention the payroll and other research programmes already led by INCa – the National Cancer Institute – in the fight against childhood cancer. INCa has set up a task force of researchers and community representatives in order to pilot actions to mobilise the best scientists. Two calls for projects were launched this year and are credited with €3.7 million. An additional EUR 1 million is dedicated to the creation of a platform for the identification and dissemination of relevant scientific information in order to feed the work of the whole community. A review of all of this work is under way and INCa is keen to organize at least twice a year a public restitution of the work dedicated to paediatric cancer. As I committed myself to it last year and as I recalled last September, this measure will be renewed every year to give the time and visibility needed for basic research. A specific annex will now be included in the budget yellow to enable Parliament to monitor its progress. As everyone knows, research is never far from higher education, which is an equally important priority of my ministry. The 2020 budget will continue the deployment of the student plan and fund all university missions. The 150 programme will thus see its appropriations increase by EUR 176 million. The trajectory set out in the 2018 Finance Bill will therefore be respected. Similarly, EUR 142.5 million is spent on the student plan, which is EUR 43 million more than last year. These means will allow our universities to open up additional places and to deepen the remediation mechanisms put in place through the "yes if" courses. In addition to the student plan, two other structural changes are under way. First of all, the generalization of the strategic dialogue with the institutions will have to allow us to thoroughly renovate, in 2020, the arrangements for allocating the resources paid to the universities. The principle of this dialogue is to build a direct and annual discussion between the Ministry and the institutions so that each university can discuss its structuring projects and its approach to implementing the Government's programme. This dialogue will make it possible to allocate an envelope of EUR 50 million. A further amount of the same amount will be allocated directly to the financing of the PPCR for 2020 as well as to the recognition of the pedagogical investment of teachers-researchers. The reform of health studies, another major transformation, will also be reflected in this budget. Close to 16 million euros will be opened to support educational and innovative initiatives in schools: 6 million euros already notified and 10 million euros in the framework of the management dialogue. A final word about student life, whose budget resources are up by €67 million for 2020. This year, for the first time in more than ten years, we have re-aligned the grants on social criteria to the tune of €43 million. This is in line with the work done by my Ministry to improve the living conditions of students and fellows. I am of course thinking of the abolition of membership in the student social security system, which has been generalized to all students since the beginning of September 2019. I am also thinking of the implementation of the student life and campus contribution, which is expected to generate nearly 140 million euros this year and next year dedicated exclusively to the financing of health prevention actions and cultural actions for students. Other specific measures complement the Government's commitment to the well-being of students. In particular, we will spend just over €3 million on the financing of English certifications for 38,000 students as of 2020, with the aim of financing this certification for all students in the new school year 2022. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] These are, in a few words and in a few minutes, the main lines of strength of the budget that I submit to your vote today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u38	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u39	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the particularly worrying situation of the French university. Indeed, despite your commitment to making student success a priority of the executive – a commitment reiterated during the strategic presentation of this mission – no action seems to support such an ambition. The selection at the entrance to the university that you organized through the Pathup device showed its limits and experienced malfunctions. Even more so, the derisory increase in funds allocated to higher education in the context of the finance bill for 2020 runs counter to the reality of the field. This reality, for example, is that of the STAPS (Science and Techniques of Physical and Sports Activities) branch of the University of Le Mans, which saw its director and twenty teachers abandon their responsibilities, an unprecedented event. For almost three weeks, they have been denouncing, together with their students, the inevitable decline in their resources in line with a steady increase in the number of students: from 329 students in 2009, this sector has indeed increased to 955 students this year, including 448 in the first year. This means a ratio of one teacher to 48 students; in Nantes, another city in the Pays de la Loire region, this ratio is one for thirty-four. The creation of two teaching-researcher positions announced by the Rector of Academy last Friday is not likely to provide a lasting solution to these difficulties since it will be financed from the university's own budget. The Commission has, however, voted for a plan to return to balanced budgets, which shows that it is unable to bear such an expenditure. Only the allocation of exceptional resources could provide a real solution to this type of problem, which concerns all universities. Minister, what do you intend to do to ensure dignified teaching conditions and to respond to the legitimate demands expressed by the teaching world and students?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u40	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u41	I would like to point out that the 150 programme will benefit from an additional EUR 176 million and that a total of EUR 1 billion will be provided for the student plan, either through budgetary appropriations or through future investments. No less than €73 million in additional funding has been allocated to the University of Le Mans. It therefore seems to me important that work be carried out between the president of the university, the dean of the STAPS training and research unit and all the students. An additional € 200000 for the University of Le Mans has also been decided in the framework of the management dialogues. Funding therefore comes not from the university's own funds, Mrs Tolmont, but from part of the EUR 50 million entrusted to the rectors and dedicated to the management dialogue. In addition, in the STAPS sector, which is highly organised in France, the first results of the law on the guidance and success of students are observed. By aggregating its results at the national level, there is more than 11% additional success in the first year of the licence. We have proof here that when the necessary resources are devoted to accompaniment of success, things work. I did not ignore the particular difficulties of the UFR STAPS at the University of Le Mans. But be convinced, Madam Member, that the Government is very attentive to this, as evidenced by the action of the rectors and the additional appropriations that have just been deployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u42	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u43	Last week, Madam Minister, I asked you in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education about the role of gender equality policies in your ministry. This question covered another, more general one. When reading this budget, one is tempted to ask for an analytical accounting which would precisely identify the funding allocated to each priority. This applies not only to equality, but also to a recent issue in our ranks, for the priority to be given to the funding of research on a particular disease. But we are also confronted with the reality of research: as a popular saying teaches us, when we do not find what we are looking for, we sometimes find much better, which is rather positive, because it confirms the idea that we can improve research on one disease by researching another disease. How, then, can we strike a balance between the setting up of tenders on priority causes and the freedom of research that allows for accidental discoveries? How can we reconcile an accounting readability of the efforts made in favour of research priorities with the necessary trust to be given to researchers, so that they can have the means to find what they were not always looking for at the outset?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u44	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u45	You are right to point out that it is difficult to establish a fine analytical accounting of a researcher's work. It is already difficult to translate the time of the research itself into hours, since, by definition, reflection is always carried out against the background of the current programmes. Then, as you have also pointed out, the principle of research is the acquisition, by different teams of different laboratories, of knowledge, the cross-section of which will enable solutions to be found. Research must always be conceived in its transversality. If Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, who devoted himself to theoretical physics, had not made his discoveries, today the size of our mobile phones would be closer to that of plasma screens... This was not the object of his research. If biologists had not wondered if there could be living organisms in geysers of more than eighty degrees, which was a question of mere scientific curiosity, today there would be no prenatal screening and no genetic activity. This is how research works: this is why it needs to be supported through both core funding and calls for projects. Researchers should be encouraged to work together in a multidisciplinary manner to respond to complex topics. Indeed, all the challenges we face today are complex. A single discipline will not solve the problem of adaptation to climate change: it is the whole research. That is why, I repeat, we need to support and the basic funds and research on a project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u46	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u47	Last year, the members of all the parliamentary groups that were still sitting at one late hour had mobilized against a sad reality: every year more than 500 children die from cancer and more than 2500 are diagnosed. Paediatric cancers are the leading cause of child mortality by disease: the most serious is that in the last 30 years we have failed to reduce neither the number of children diagnosed nor the mortality rate, while prevention bears fruit in adults. Indeed, cancers specifically affecting children are special: some have nothing in common with cancers affecting the general population. That's why we asked you to allocate extra funds to research on pediatric cancers. Thanks to this mobilisation on a subject that goes beyond political divides, and with your help, we obtained €5 million in additional funding. My question concerns the use of these appropriations. We can improve it without costing a euro. The INCa had to discuss with the associations to clarify the use of this additional €5 million. However, the Institute wants to finance only "exclusively new" actions, which results in the rejection of innovative calls for new projects dedicated to paediatric cancers, as these projects have been managed by regional canceropoles. As you know, Madam Minister, these cancers are far from having the same means as INCa, especially since they have not received an extension of EUR 5 million. INCa's overly restrictive funding policy has a negative impact on research into paediatric cancers. Only one in ten children is offered to participate in an epidemiological study, while these studies are necessary to reduce the number of children diagnosed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, what can we do to change this restrictive funding policy on the part of INCa? The fight against pediatric cancer requires money: we got it last year. It must be used properly: that is why we need to know what the Government intends to do to unlock the use of the funds obtained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u48	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u49	You recalled the consensus to provide additional dedicated funding to paediatric cancer research to support new types of research. INCa already spends between 12 and 16 million euros on research on paediatric cancers, excluding payroll – these are operating expenses. INCa met with researchers and associations. There was a first call for projects of € 200000 and then a second of € 3.5 million, the results of which will be known in the coming days. These programmes have been discussed, I repeat, with the associations. If you feel that associations have not been heard, we will be able to look at the matter again. The aim is to look for new avenues for the treatment of paediatric cancers, since, as you have indicated, the treatment of other cancers is suitable for some, for some, for paediatric cancers, and for others, not. I would also like to recall the considerable progress we have made in the text on bioethics, since many of the paediatric cancers are caused by defects in the development of the embryo in its very first days. It is therefore important to better understand these early days of embryo development, in a framed manner, what the bioethics bill is doing. The drafting of the budget yellow has, it is true, taken some delay, I am sorry. We will of course be able to work together in a way that will make trade more fluid. However, it is the INCa which, for the moment, is the best operator for the use of these funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u50	I call the appropriations of the mission "Research and higher education", entered in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 486.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u51	This is an appeal amendment. If health research is a priority, however, it must not be done at any cost. However, the first reading of the bioethics bill again raised the question of ethical research. From this perspective, the decryption of living technology by "omical" technologies cannot be done at the expense of embryos or by creating chimeras. I recall that an animal chimera is an animal embryo modified by the addition of human cells to give birth to a chimera animal. The authorization of such an experiment, which was proposed in section 17 of the bioethics bill, raises many questions to which we would like answers. This experiment presents a proven risk of interference with the human-animal boundary. What will be the identity of an animal that, by adding cells, will become partly human? On the other hand, we would like to add human cells to the animal embryo so that they reproduce in the body of an animal: yet we are not immune to the possibility of other human cells developing. Such a perspective seems to be a science fictional one: however, what will we do with an animal that is born with a kidney, hands or human face? In addition, what percentage of human cells will be added to the animal embryo? The bioethics bill does not set any limits today. The greater the number of human cells, the closer the animal will be to man, with all the unknowns and the dangers that such a rapprochement will entail. Finally, what about the major risk of creating a human consciousness in the animal? Such a risk was mentioned by the Council of State: since it would not be possible to control embryonic cells in vivo and they would migrate into the animal's brain, the question arises objectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u52	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u53	I do not think that the finance bill is the right support for continuing the long and rich debate that has already taken place in the context of the bioethics bill, which, as such, provides guarantees on a large number of questions that we can ask ourselves. Nor do I believe that the abolition of EUR 5 million from programme 172 will allow us to move forward. You are obviously afraid of science, honourable Member: for my part, I can only be against this type of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u54	I have before me two amendments, Nos 487 and 488, which can be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u55	I call on the Special Rapporteur and the Government not to reduce their responses to such slogans as "You are afraid of science". The questions I have asked are legitimate, and I have made it clear that this is an appeal amendment, as I am now defending. While it is clear that research into other energy sources is a priority in the light of the climate issues we are experiencing – in Béziers, given recent events, we are speaking with knowledge – we should not be mistargeted, especially with wind energy. Already last year, two defenders of our heritage and landscapes, Pierre Dumont and Denis de Kergorlay, had fired the alarm signal on a policy that would make wind energy the ideal path to clean and abundant energy. Both are very clear: the price to be paid is exorbitant, because it involves weakening both our culture, our health, our public finances and even our environment. Building on this, we must return to a more responsible policy that encourages research into truly clean and protective energies on our planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u56	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u57	It is not about cultivating fears or suggesting that wind energy, which is one of the ways of diversifying our energy production, could lead to the suggested apocalypse. Again, reducing by EUR 5 million the 172 programme will not make it possible to move forward on the efficient path of energy diversification. Opinion against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u58	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u59	I would like to shed some light on the funding of research in this area: either on the sustainability of systems, in particular on the possibility of replacing rare earths present in wind turbine magnets and on the recycling of materials used, or on environmental aspects, by studying in particular the influence of wind on terrestrial or marine ecosystems in order to reduce this impact. Wind energy has a place in the French electric mix by providing more than 5% of electricity production. It is an energy source taken into account in the multi-annual electricity programming, which was updated in 2018. It is therefore important to preserve research in this field. Opinion against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u60	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u61	I would like to return to the economic aspect of wind energy. As you said, minister, wind turbines are partly made up of rare earths. This is a cause for concern, as their use places France in a state of dependence. Indeed, these rare earths are now supplied by China, which, with 95 per cent of world production, has a quasi-monopoly, even though it would hold only 36 per cent of the natural reserves. The non-recyclable nature of certain materials used in the construction of wind turbines also poses environmental problems. I therefore wished to draw your attention to all these issues, which was precisely the subject of my appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u62	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 257.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u63	It is an appeal amendment, so it is intended to be withdrawn. Presented by our colleague Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur of the fact-finding mission on the implementation of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, this amendment proposes to refocus the scope of MIRES on the four programmes managed by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, and to redistribute the other programmes within the scope of ministerial competence to which they belong. After a discussion in the Committee on Finance, we adopted this amendment and agree with our colleague on the need to clarify as much as possible the budget architecture of the mission. Nevertheless, the right legislative vehicle will probably be the multi-year research programming bill that will be debated in the first half of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u64	The next speaker is Mr. Francis Chouat, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u65	I have nothing to add to the comments made by our excellent colleague Fabrice Le Vigoureux. Madam Minister, this amendment was conceived by the Finance Committee as an invitation to think about a budgetary organisation that takes into account the multi-annual programming of research.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u67	The purpose of your amendment is to open a discussion on the perimeter of the MIRES. If the issue is fully relevant, it falls within the inter-ministerial level and would probably have a greater place in a public finance policy debate. Indeed, it is not possible for us to change the budget model for 2020. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on the form, but open on the substance, if Parliament would like to discuss it again in the debate on the orientation of public finances. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u68	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 430.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u69	It aims to compensate universities for the loss of funding due to the reduction of the tax reduction rate in favour of patronage, by increasing the credits from the 150 programme devoted to initial and continuing training from the baccalaureate to the doctoral degree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u71	The amendment is curiously drafted, since it provides for the transfer of considerable appropriations – EUR 817 million – in order to compensate for the reduction in the tax reduction rate in favour of patronage. In fact, this amount represents the entire tax expenditure related to sponsorship, all sectors combined; This envelope is not limited to universities, which receive a much smaller amount. Moreover, only 78 companies would be affected by the limitation of tax expenditure. In a given territory, a middle-sized company that would donate EUR 1 million to its university – which is not so common – would not be affected by this sponsorship measure. Finally, there is no evidence that the reduction in this tax expenditure, which has experienced very high inflation in recent years, will be correlated with a decline in donations. Indeed, because of the ambitious corporate tax trajectory, it should be remembered that the contribution of companies to this will be increasingly low. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u72	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 423.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u73	It is based on the same principle of compensation but, this time, in favour of the real estate of universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u74	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u75	I invite you to read again the Court of Auditors' report entitled "Public support for corporate sponsorship", which was published last November. It states very precisely that the 817 million euros represent the totality of the donations – not just those to universities. In addition, the summary statement of the amendment refers to a dramatic reduction in the success rate for licences, which, at the very moment when the accompanying arrangements which have been introduced are beginning to produce results, seems somewhat excessive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u76	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 504.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u77	Under the 150 "Superior Training and University Research" program, this amendment aims to increase the full-time equivalents of researchers for 2020 by 2000 positions. This recruitment represents a budgetary cost of EUR 100 million for 2020, based on the data in the budget blue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u78	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u79	I recall that universities are autonomous in the management of their human resources. To announce the creation of 2000 posts is therefore totally inoperative; The experience of the last legislature proves, moreover, that, in this respect, when one is full of good intentions, the disillusionment is only greater. To illustrate my point, I would like to remind the group which tabled this amendment that the number of teachers-researchers who completed the programme fell by 1000 FTEs between 2014 and 2016, when it was announced that jobs would be created in the superior – the famous 5000 jobs in the Fioraso plan. In other words, the 100 institutions that have acceded to the extended responsibilities and competences use the additional appropriations freely, within the limits of financial sustainability. These establishments do not systematically create jobs, as the rigidity of their wage bill makes them finance their mechanical progress. Thus, in 2017 there was an under-consumption of 11498 FTEs under ceiling. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u80	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 517.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u81	It aims to affirm our opposition to the selection mechanism in higher education at work in Parcoursup. As a reminder, 70 per cent of executive children are employed in managerial positions, while 70 per cent of workers' children are employed in so-called "executive" jobs. This means that social determinism, against which we should all fight, is still at work, and we are of the opinion that Parcoursup will only aggravate an already overwhelming process of social reproduction. Therefore, and in order to ensure the financial admissibility of this amendment, we propose the transfer of all the appropriations from Action 4 "Private educational institutions" from Programme 150 to Action 1 of a new programme entitled "Free access to university".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u82	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u83	We all share here the desire to give free access to university. You present Parcoursup as a selective model, this is not the case: it is a model that accompanies a large number of students towards success; a model that creates more places in BTS for professional bachelors, more places in IUT for technological bachelors and, more generally, more places in the voltage tracks for all bachelors. A major budgetary effort is being made in universities, in particular to provide specific support. This policy gives its first results, aggregated figures should soon confirm them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u84	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u85	Madam Member, I see your amendment as an additional way to appeal to the Government and to investigate the trial of Parcoursup and the student plan, but without making any argument. You accuse the Government of not having increased the number of seats: that's not true! We created 38,000 additional places, including 16,000 in 2019 alone. We also abolished the drawing of lots at the entrance to the university, created 3000 places in IUT, 6478 in STAPS, 4767 in law, 4422 in economics-management, 2385 in psychology and 2464 in PACES. These are concrete data! You also say that Parcoursup prevents the democratisation of access to higher education: this seems a little short to me. If only by considering Île-de-France as a single academy, we have given each Franciscan high school student the opportunity to ask for all the trainings he wishes in Paris, Versailles or Créteil. Here again, the results are concrete: the number of high school students in Créteil who had a proposal for training in a Parisian institution increased by 6.7%, and this figure rises to as much as 11% for high school students in Versailles; More Parisian high school students have also received training proposals in Créteil or Versailles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u87	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In order to measure the concrete effects of the Pathup on access to higher education, it is very important to rely on the figures produced by the Information Systems and Statistical Studies Branch – SIES – which are available to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u88	All right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u89	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u90	On this subject, we have an ideological disagreement that we will not resolve today. For us, Parcoursup is obviously a form of selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u91	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u92	We saw it at the end of the first phase, in July: about 58,000 students were still waiting for a place – some abandoned, which explains why we did not find them again in the system. In addition, Parcoursup accentuates social determinism. However, it would certainly take several hours of debate to have a chance to agree on the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u93	We can't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u94	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u95	Since we are talking about equal opportunities, here is a very concrete fact: in my home, in Val-d'Oise, there are many technological establishments. Two years ago, students in health and social science and technology – ST2S – had very little chance of accessing nursing studies. When Parcoursup was put in place, I received many teachers whose attitude was similar to yours: they were afraid that their students, because of a technological baccalaureate or a pro ST2S baccalaureate, would have even more difficulty accessing higher education. At the beginning of the year, I saw these same teachers: they said that the results were incredible, that the share of their students – especially girls leaving ST2S – admitted to nursing school had increased by 25%. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This example therefore goes against your point: thanks to Parcoursup, which puts forward the results of pupils and treats different courses equally, students from vocational or technological fields have access to studies to which they could not claim before.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u96	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u97	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 437.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u98	It aims to propose the increase of credits for the most vulnerable French and foreign students, in order to reduce their enrolment fees to acceptable levels in the light of the Constitutional Council's decision of 11 October 2019 on free higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u100	Your amendment combines two things: firstly, it assumes that the increase in tuition fees for extra-Community foreign students is applied in all universities, and secondly, all the conclusions of the Constitutional Council's decision of 11 October last, which established the principle of free public higher education from our constitutional block, have already been drawn. For these two reasons, you feel that additional appropriations should be mobilised to finance the recurrent expenses of universities: this is not the case! Firstly, to date, only seven to ten universities have decided to apply the increase in tuition fees for non-Community students: these additional resources do not constitute long-term and general resources for the whole of public higher education, so there is nothing to compensate for. Secondly, in its decision, the Constitutional Council recalled that modest registration fees could be levied taking into account the financial capacity of students. It will therefore be up to the Council of State to give its opinion and to determine precisely the concept of a small amount, as well as the financial capacity to be taken into account. Secondly, your amendment aims to raise funds for the regional centres for academic and academic works, the CROUS, to finance grants to foreign students. Some EUR 10 million is already foreseen under the "Bienvenue en France" strategy to finance policies on reception, language preparation, follow-up of foreign students, both at undergraduate level and at master and doctoral levels. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u102	The Government is also opposed to this amendment. I would like to recall what has been said in this regard by the Constitutional Council, which was seized of a priority issue of constitutionality. It confirmed the conformity with the Constitution of the third paragraph of article 48 of Act No. 51-598 of 24 May 1951 on finance for the financial year 1951, which establishes the differentiation of the registration fees for non-Community students. In addition to the statement of conformity, it is now the responsibility of the Council of State, which is seized of the merits, to clarify the exact scope in the coming months. All universities may take into account the special circumstances of non-Community students and grant exemptions in the light of the individual circumstances of the students or the strategic orientations of the institution. The CROUS are already providing assistance to all extra-community students who need it. An amount of EUR 68.78 million is included in the draft finance law for 2020, under these specific aids which extra-Community students do not fail to appeal for if necessary. All students may, in fact, be entitled to this ad hoc assistance in order to respond to new situations. Finally, I would like to point out that there has been a threefold increase in scholarships awarded to non-community students because of the family situation of these students or the strategy of the institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u103	Several amendments relate to Bpifrance's appropriations. I propose that the authors present them successively before the commission and then the Government give their views on each of them. I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 395.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u104	We propose to increase the appropriations allocated to Bpifrance by EUR 60 million. Bpifrance is responsible for supporting and advising small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs and ITEs, in their technological and industrial innovation projects. However, since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has been reducing its appropriations: the allocation has increased from 160 million euros in 2017 to 140 million euros in 2018 and to 120 million euros in 2019. In total, the appropriations dedicated to Bpifrance have decreased by 60 million euros since 2017. In response to this decline, a report on aid for innovation, published in March 2018 by the General Inspectorate of Finance, recommended that the aid should remain at least EUR 140 million. How can support for innovation and technology transfer be seen as essential in preparing our economy for future challenges and in supporting businesses, as outlined in the annex to the report to the Finance Bill for 2020, without providing the agencies responsible for assisting these companies with the means to support them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u105	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 333.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u106	Several amendments, both from the right and from the left, are actually aimed at defending the budget line for innovation support provided by Bpifrance. We have all seen that these loans have melted in recent years, while the funds provided by Bpifrance have a leverage effect on businesses: EUR 1.2 billion has been mobilised for SMEs in support of innovation through aid from Bpifrance, the regions and the European Union. As my colleague Sylvie Tolmont said, the appropriations for Program 192 have been declining for several years. The Communist Group's amendment tends to increase these appropriations by EUR 40 million and to give Bpifrance back resources to support innovation in all SMEs – not just in the beneficiaries of the IIF, the Innovation and Industry Fund – through direct financial support and advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u107	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u108	Minister, it is clear that this is a sensitive issue: Members of Parliament from all walks of life are mobilizing for the Bpifrance-led business innovation aid programme. To be precise, the amount of the dedicated fund has been divided by 2.5 since 2013, which shows a real erosion. All the amendments aim to raise the level of appropriations for this fund, the amount of which is set at EUR 100 million in this draft finance law for 2020. I'm taking an informed step. Before being a member of parliament, I was a project leader in the automotive industry in the Hauts-de-France region. I accompanied SMEs and TPEs in the development of their innovation projects. You cannot know the number of companies for which this aid was actually used as a lever for innovation. Our territories – whether in the city or in more rural areas – have a lot of small nuggets with real skills. The leader is multi-cassette, and sometimes himself a researcher. Thanks to this Bpifrance-led system, they can develop and enhance their skills, implement their projects, win markets, develop and create jobs. This dynamic is very positive. I think we could make an effort to support those of our companies, TPE and start-ups, which are really dynamic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u109	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u110	While this is a sensitive issue for all of the Assembly's benches, it is also a sensitive issue for the Special Rapporteur before you. I have also had the opportunity to hear from the person in charge of the programme who is of concern to you because of the evolution of this line of appropriations. It is true that it has been declining for several years. I will explain the reasons for this development. The first reason is the increase in the number of innovation support schemes. I am thinking in particular of the future investment programme, the IAP, as well as the Innovation and Industry Fund, which was created more recently and which provides an additional EUR 250 million each year. In this context, Bpifrance will receive an additional €70 million from next year under the so-called deep tech plan, designed to promote the emergence and development of companies investing in break-up technologies. These EUR 70 million cannot be frozen or redeployed as they are part of the financing of the IIF. Second reason: given the ceiling on the payment to social security organisations of the compensation of the scheme for innovative start-ups – JEI – we will be able to secure the appropriation line for innovation aid. In 2019, the level of implementation of these had been quite low, which is not normal: we had voted for EUR 100 million, but EUR 15 million had been raised as compensation for social security organisations. For 2020, the ceiling for this payment will ensure that payment appropriations will actually be EUR 100 million, without further redeployment. A total of EUR 85 million will therefore be made available: the additional EUR 70 million, to which must be added the EUR 15 million due to better implementation of the budget. Even though I share the concerns expressed on all the benches, I therefore propose that you withdraw these amendments. Otherwise, the committee's opinion would be unfavourable – but I imagine that the minister will give us her own insight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u112	We believe it is important to allow Bpifrance to ensure a good level of investment for innovation. This is why EUR 100 million is included in the draft finance law for 2020, EUR 120 million per year will be allocated to it for three years from 2021 and EUR 70 million from the IIF will be entrusted to Bpifrance. On the basis of these financings, Bpifrance provides €1.4 billion in innovation aid, thus ensuring a remarkable leverage effect, which we will continue to support. Some EUR 170 million is available from this year, plus an additional EUR 20 million from 2021 under the three-year budget. Since the beginning of this discussion, several interventions have shown the importance of extrabudgetary funding. This is the sum of the budgetary and extrabudgetary appropriations that must be mobilised in a coordinated way to be effective. I call for the withdrawal of these amendments; Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u113	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u114	I will not withdraw the amendment. Mr Special Rapporteur, not all SMEs are eligible for the IAP, since there are floor thresholds that sometimes exceed the amount of the company's project. Bpifrance ensures a good network of the territory and its advisors are present as close as possible to SMEs, TPEs and start-ups that they can support in financing their projects. Hence the relevance of a device like this. I have the feeling that the state is gradually withdrawing from part of the support of companies in research and innovation, as shown by the decline in allocations to the competitiveness poles. The State discharges itself to the regions. We see the same approach with regard to Bpifrance. It is still unpleasant in relation to the small structures, which would deserve to be accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u115	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u116	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u117	The subject deserves to be stopped. The Bpifrance system works because it is very close to the ground. The IAP systems are complex and have evolved since their inception. As for the fund that Bercy wants to create from sums raised from the "privatisation" of ADP and French gaming, it remains to be determined. A priori, this fund will target larger companies. The usefulness of these credits should therefore be reconsidered, as they allow for a rather fine irrigation of the fabric of SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u118	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u119	I support these amendments, which are in line with the one I will shortly be defending. The IAP and IIF do not fund at all the same type of activities as Program 192.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u120	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u121	The IAP co-finances with private actors the development of a company in the amount of several hundred thousand euros or several million euros. The same is true with the financing of break-up innovation: we will not finance break-up technologies with only 20,000 or 30,000 euros! With the 192 programme, it is a question of financing the start-up of a start-up or an innovation project within an SME. Therefore, as you have done, Madam Minister, we cannot add up the EUR 100 million allocated for Action 02 with the EUR 70 million to come. However, due to the contraction of funding for Program 192, the start-up pipeline will not be adequately fed. It is therefore a pity not to add EUR 20 million or EUR 40 million to the 192 programme. Secondly, Mr Special Rapporteur, I thought that, in considering the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020, the amendment providing for the ceiling on the payment to social security agencies of the compensation of the scheme in favour of the JEIs had not been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u122	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] If it has not been adopted, you cannot say that this ceiling is foreseen! I would like you to clarify this, because if there is no ceiling, next year there will be a risk of 15 million to 20 million euros on the 192 programme again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u124	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u125	I was not talking about the PIA, I was talking about the FII, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u126	It's the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u127	No – I know it all the better as I co-chair the IIF with Bruno Le Maire. Of the €70 million planned for Bpifrance, €10 million will be spent on grants and start-ups under French Tech, €15 million on i-Lab – this is also the creation of start-ups – and $45 million on individual grants and support for SMEs and start-ups. This €70 million is therefore specifically allocated to support start-ups and SMEs, which has nothing to do with the purpose of the IAP – which, I repeat, I did not mention. This sum, within the framework of the IIF, is entrusted to Bpifrance for the missions that I have just recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u128	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u129	Allow me to insist, Madam Minister. The 192 programme makes it possible to finance SMEs directly, upstream, which is not entirely the case with the IIF, and in particular with the deep tech plan – a new mission for Bpifrance, without new human resources – whose aim is, over the next four years, to double the number of companies supported. The deep tech fund works with research laboratories and universities; It will be the start-ups of deep technology that will be helped in this context, whereas only programme 192, I repeat, can at present directly assist SMEs in their financing project and in consulting on innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u130	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u131	Forgive me for insisting too, Madam Minister – I am doing it as politely as our colleague Roussel – but the question is important. I will repeat what Laure de La Raudière said, because I too find it difficult to understand – believe that I am sorry. Unless I am mistaken, the ceiling on the payment to social security bodies of compensation under the scheme for innovative start-ups was rejected in the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020. I would therefore like to see additional aid provided, Mr Special Rapporteur, but I do not see how this is possible – again, perhaps I have been misinformed and, if that were to be the case, I apologize for it. Secondly, I welcome the intervention of our colleague Roussel, who is used to supporting employees more than companies: it is indeed true that 42% of Bpifrance's aid is devoted to the TPE-SME of the territories – and it is a Member of Parliament from Paris who says so. Finally, I am Special Rapporteur for Program 134 and I have the honour to sit on the General Secretariat for Investment, the IPS – and I make it clear, Minister, that I am not confusing with the third part of the IAP. I am obliged, after President Woerth, to stress this French trait: we have something that works very well, which is called Bpifrance; in the territories, the companies understood how it worked; Laure de La Raudière stressed it, at the start, when the boxes have nothing, when the banker refuses his help, it is often Bpifrance who is there; In spite of this, aid is becoming increasingly dispersed. I do not understand, philosophically, if I may say, that we want to add to a device that has been almost identified and which has been operating for ten years, funds with the most varied acronyms, which, of course, are useful to us politically, but which, from a practical point of view, for entrepreneurs, are a maze, or even a hell. Why don't we try to rationalise these innovation aids rather than scatter them? [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LR, UDI-Agir, FI, GDR and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I do not know if it is Mrs Vidal that we will then have the pleasure of seeing at the bench of the Government, but the discussion will continue on Bpifrance with programme 134. But when we add what is provided for in the 192 programme for Bpifrance to what is provided for in the 134 programme for the same Bpifrance, we are entitled to be concerned about the functioning of this organisation – and, as Special Rapporteur, I am concerned... On the one hand, in programme 192, I see only aid for innovation falling, and, on the other, in programme 134, I see that we want to abolish a budget line again this year. So what is the Government's will regarding Bpifrance?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u133	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u134	I can only repeat that an additional EUR 250 million per year will be devoted to support and innovation, of which EUR 70 million will be entrusted to Bpifrance to support the creation of start-ups, TPEs etc. on their start-up, when they leave university laboratories, but not only, because it is also a question of helping doctoral students who have signed industrial training agreements through research – CIFRE. So that the EUR 100 million of programme 192 allocated to Bpifrance will continue to feed all other tasks of the bank. It is therefore an additional €70 million from this year that will allow Bpifrance to raise €1.4 billion – this figure comes from the bank itself. In addition, from the three-year budget of 2021-2023, the budget line of programme 192 for Bpifrance will go up to EUR 120 million, plus the IIF's EUR 70 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u135	The next speaker is Mr. Francis Chouat, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u136	I am not used to speaking after the minister, but I would like to see as little confusion as possible, dear colleague Gregoire. First of all, you blame us for undoing Bpifrance's end mesh with the regions and other actors. Not at all! It is absolutely not a question of harming Bpifrance's strike force. Secondly, to be as factual as possible, it seemed to me, to a greater extent, that article 17 of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020 provided for the capping of compensation due by the State under the exemption in favour of JEIs. The question is therefore – and it is up to the minister to tell us – how to ensure that the EUR 100 million planned for Bpifrance in the draft finance law for 2020, and the EUR 120 million planned for 2021, do not experience the same unpleasant plank that brought this amount down to EUR 85 million in the context of the budget implementation for 2019. Finally, I can only abound in the direction of the minister: we are not in the process, dear Olivia Gregoire, of making financing more complex, we are trying to strengthen Bpifrance so that it is at the heart of a ramification strategy which, with the funding of the State, the IIF, the European Union – let us not forget – and the rise in power of the regions, which reinforces the territorial character of the scheme, will give a strike force of 1.5 billion euros for supporting innovation. One thing is to guarantee the amount of EUR 100 million, another is to portray this budget for 2020 as a step backwards from the efforts that the majority, the government and innovation actors are making towards innovation and business support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u137	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 108, 207 and 471. I call Mr Eric Bothorel to support Amendment No. 108.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u138	As Olivia Gregoire said, we hear a little tune of "Viva la start-up nation! on all benches – and this is rare enough to be underlined. This amendment is of the same nature as those previously advocated, but aims, as far as it is concerned, to increase the allocation for Action 02 of Programme 192 to EUR 120 million. I'm sorry to come back, but I understand that with the deep tech fund, it's more about semiconductors, quantum, artificial intelligence... It is therefore far from programme-type 192 programmes that tend to irrigate the territories. Olivia Gregoire recalled: 42% of Bpifrance's aid is devoted to companies outside the metropolis. I understand that you are announcing for 2021 the change in appropriations for individual aid for innovation to EUR 120 million; Well, I propose that you take this step now and thus avoid the wandering of the freezing – or the freezing – of credits, which would reduce their amount to a level far away from the one to which one can claim to feed a train of companies, which, perhaps tomorrow, will change scale and become ETIs, or even the twenty-five unicorns that the President of the Republic calls for his wishes for 2025. If we do not align the figures, we could recall the EUR 5 billion announced by the Head of State and consider that we no longer need the EUR 100 million we are talking about here...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u139	I call Mr Lioger, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u140	This amendment by the Committee on Economic Affairs was adopted against my opinion. It aims to increase the allocation of action 02 under programme 192 to EUR 120 million for the financing of technological and industrial innovation projects led by Bpifrance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u141	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 471.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u142	I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, the specific nature of programme 192. No other program funds individual seeding aids. It is the 20,000 or 30,000 euros that allow an innovative company to be created in our territories. The deep tech fund is very different: the financing of innovation is in this case linked to laboratory techniques and technologies; we are far from the start-up or innovation project of an SME. I strongly urge that the additional €20 million be used to consolidate the 192 programme so that it continues to irrigate grants and repayable advances to SMEs and start-ups in all regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u143	Mr Roussel, would you like to support Amendment No 496 so that the Special Rapporteur and the Minister can give an overall opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u144	With pleasure, Madam President, since this amendment, which I tabled with my colleague Sébastien Jumel and the members of the Communist Group, is in line with the previous ones. This is a fallback amendment, which aims to transfer EUR 10 million to Action 02 of Programme 192. [[Marie-George Buffet and Sylvie Tolmont applaud]] It is wise that we should adopt Amendment No 207, since it was adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs. In any case, that is what we call you to do. If it were adopted, we would obviously withdraw our amendment. [[Marie-George Buffet and Grégory Besson-Moreau applaud]] Madam Minister, you are telling us that this budget line is already sufficiently equipped. However, last year, the proportion of freezes was incredibly high, and it continues to grow for programme 192: the allocation actually allocated to Bpifrance, i.e. 85 million euros, was only 71% of that which had been voted. The budgetary freeze is a reality which strikes hard on the appropriations voted for Bpifrance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u146	Let me make two points. First of all, when I hear you, I feel that when the choice is made, for example by Bpifrance, to support particularly the so-called break-up innovation, any other innovation is abandoned. But in breaking innovation, there is initiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u147	It's more for the research labs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u148	Dear colleague, here I have the documents on the link between Bpifrance's interventions in support of innovation: it is clear that breaking innovation is not only about companies that are already at the threshold of growth. Secondly, as Special Rapporteur on the research budget, I need a guarantee that this time there will be no EUR 15 million plank. The scheme had a single motivation, not to reduce intervention, but to meet the obligation to compensate for exemptions from social contributions. Article 17 of the draft law on the financing of social security does not provide for a cap on these exemptions, we must have the guarantee that the EUR 100 million of appropriations will be properly implemented and that there will be no freeze. However, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand we do not have EUR 70 million for wealthy companies and, on the other hand, EUR several million less for poor companies. A total of €1.5 billion is mobilized for innovation through Bpifrance, and €70 million goes to the most innovative sector. The challenge is to guarantee EUR 100 million in 2020 and EUR 120 million in 2021 for other companies in the innovation sector. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u150	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u151	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u152	I fully agree with these amendments, particularly with Amendment No 207 of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. They all seem to me to be perfectly in line with the philosophy of the President of the Republic in this area. He absolutely wants to emerge from the French " unicorns" – but, before becoming a river, the Seine began a small stream. Perhaps my experience is interesting? I set up multiple companies, which had nothing to do with deep tech. Without Bpifrance's help, without the lovemoney she brings, I could never have done it, and I couldn't have created jobs. It is therefore essential to support young start-ups in all territories, so that they can grow, grow, create jobs and become unicorns. It is important that all start-ups have access to these financings; they should not be classified in categories, as we want to do by evoking deep tech or designating very specific products. I will vote in favour of the same amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u153	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to understand what the Government is doing, at the request of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u155	[[Smile]] Ah! Call to order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u156	First, we need to create a link and a partnership between the academic world and the business world to support breaking innovation. We are no longer in a world in which incremental innovation will allow us to create twenty-five unicorns. We really need breaking innovation. As a result, Madame de La Raudière, it is true: the start-ups we support come from academic research laboratories. Why not? It's like this all over the world! On the other hand, we must be very clear, it is not a question of funding academic research. Since an additional €70 million is spent on deep technology, this is no longer the case for the €100 million programme, which can be entirely directed towards support for TPEs and SMEs outside the Deeptech sector. We have to look at the budget as a whole. On the one hand, there is EUR 100 million outside deeptech, and on the other hand, there is a further EUR 70 million under deeptech, of which EUR 45 million is earmarked for individual aid to enable all small companies to start up. You have to have this in mind. There is simply more money for Bpifrance to support innovation and business creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u157	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u158	The Republican Group will support these amendments, which are in line with those we have tabled. Madam Minister, I believe that members of the majority can very well understand on their own the will of the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u159	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u160	Several of them have defended these amendments with the same arguments as we have, and one of the amendments has been adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs. It is clear that we touch on this at a sensitive point: the accompaniment in our territories. Half-worded, you accept these arguments, announcing that you will raise this direct aid to EUR 120 million in subsequent years. In other words, you agree with the amendments – which we could therefore adopt perfectly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u161	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u162	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The words will fly away, but the writings will remain. It would be better to include these EUR 120 million in the budget for 2020 now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u163	Mr Roussel, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u164	I have the floor: I withdraw it since the identical amendments have been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u165	I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 473.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u166	This is an appeal amendment which tends to underline the significant delay we have taken in the construction of housing for students. In 2018, the Government had announced the construction of 600,000 student housing units, but a recent article in Le Monde reported that only 30,000 housing units had been built by 2022, just half of what was planned. As we know, housing is the first item of expenditure for a student, with an average cost ranging from 430 euros to 872 euros per month – the highest rents being raised in Paris. It is therefore important to bridge the gap in housing construction. We have tabled this amendment in order to know the intentions of the Government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u168	I understand that this was an appeal amendment based on the fact that the 60000 student housing plan had fallen behind. Nevertheless, the trajectory is respected. The success of the plan requires social partners to regain visibility. It would seem, as we shall see in the review of housing credits, that the change in their economic model is becoming more and more integrated. In addition, there is a need for land opportunities, which are sometimes lacking, and for closer cooperation with universities. It is one more partner to include in the loop, and whose real estate skills are new and must rise in power. The creation of the mobility lease should, however, facilitate access to rental for students and trainees in need of short-term accommodation. The State guarantees itself to them by means of the Visale guarantee. In the first quarter of 2019 alone, more than 30300 Visale bonds were distributed to students. This is a very powerful mechanism in their favour. I therefore ask for the amendment to be withdrawn – but I believe that was your intention, Mrs Lemoine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u170	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u171	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u172	The information that has just been given to us by the rapporteur is such as to reassure us, but we will remain very vigilant in the coming months with regard to the objective to be achieved. On this basis, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u173	The following amendments, Nos 41, 404, 43, 405 and 493, all deal with a single theme: cancer. I propose that their authors present them successively before the Special Rapporteur and then the Minister give their opinion. Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor in support of Amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u174	Every year in France, 500 children die of cancer, and more than 2500 new cases of paediatric cancer are diagnosed. Cancer is the leading cause of death by disease in children. However, research against child cancer is not funded to match the challenges. Specialists, practitioners, doctors are absolutely convinced that with higher financial resources, public research in this sector could achieve better results. In view of this, last year, during the examination of the 2019 finance law, our assembly made the choice of a joint action, beyond partisan differences. We asked for an additional EUR 18 million for research against child cancer. Finally, an additional EUR 5 million renewable over several years was made available unanimously for research on paediatric cancer. It was, and certainly remains, a concrete and salutary first step forward. There is also a need for greater transparency in the implementation of research against child cancer. We are convinced that we can do more and better. Funding is not up to the stakes: France has the human resources, thanks to its leading researchers, to make significant progress in this field. In the United States, since 2014, there has been a research program, Gabriella Miller Kids, created by a law that has introduced, in addition to existing resources, a fund dedicated to research on the fatal cancer of children, worth $126 million over ten years. This law, Gabriella Miller Kids First ResearchAct, has largely proved its worth. We too can become a leading country in paediatric oncology research; We too can find powerful solutions to improve the living conditions and treatment of children with cancer. That is why, in the continuity of what we did last year, we propose to increase the appropriations for research in paediatric oncology by EUR 13 million per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u175	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 404.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u176	I recalled earlier, Madam Minister, how pleased we were last year, on all benches, to have obtained, at a very early hour, an additional EUR 5 million for paediatric cancers. We were proud to have obtained this dart against the government's – I insist on this point – opinion! We started by proposing an amount of EUR 18 million, but we were told that it was not possible: research could not receive too much money in the same year, it was said. I have reviewed the Government's explanations and that is what has been said! I believe, for my part, that we must continue to increase the funds allocated to paediatric cancers: firstly, because the researchers rightly complain about the lack of financial resources; Secondly, because associations are the first funders of paediatric cancer research. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I therefore propose to redirect an additional €7 million from space research, already heavily funded by Europe, to research on paediatric cancers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u177	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor in support of Amendment No 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is a fallback amendment. Last year, we voted for EUR 5 million a year for research on paediatric cancers. We call for an additional 5 million to strengthen the fight against childhood cancer and to improve research in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u179	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 405.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u180	It is also a fallback amendment. Without the EUR 7 billion proposed in Amendment No 404, I propose to redirect EUR 5 billion. The first option, however, seems to me to be more interesting, since it is an intermediate amount between the 5 million already obtained and the 18 million initially proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u181	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 493.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u182	Cancer is the leading cause of death in France, with 385,000 new cases each year and 150,000 deaths. If early detection and advances in medicine improve the chances of survival of cancer patients, prevention can also play a major role in the fight against cancer. The authorities believe that 40% of cancers could be prevented by adopting a healthy lifestyle. As such, additional funding for cancer research would reduce risk factors and increase protective factors. The aim of this amendment is therefore to focus more specifically on the causes of cancer. Smoking, alcohol and sedentary behaviour are the most well-known risk factors. However, further research on environmental factors or air quality should be carried out, to name but a few. The aim of this amendment is therefore to allocate EUR 1 million to action 15 "Scientific and technological research in the life and health sciences" of programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research", to the detriment of action 04 "Mastering access to space" of programme 193 "Space research", and to the benefit of research on the causes of cancers in adults and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u183	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u184	For the sake of clarity of the debate, allow me to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that these amendments concern a common theme, but that that of Mrs Descamps differs from the previous ones, all of which concern the development of research on paediatric cancers. I shall therefore begin by speaking on this last amendment, which has a wider scope, since it concerns cancer research in general. Of course, I agree with the idea behind this amendment, but the cancer plan will end in 2019 and will be relayed by a new 10-year strategy. I therefore do not think it appropriate to increase appropriations until the strategic framework is determined. However, it would be interesting to hear from the Minister on the lines of this future strategy, particularly with regard to cancer research actions considered incurable. I propose that Amendment No 493 be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable. As for the other amendments, the minister has already given a general framework when she answered Mr Diard's question earlier. Depending on whether they are in decline or not, the amendments propose amounts ranging from an additional EUR 5 million to an additional EUR 13 million. Amendments Nos 43 and 405 propose 5 million, precisely the amount included in the finance bill for 2020. We discussed it quickly with President Woerth in the Finance Committee, because he was about to table an amendment for a similar amount. Indeed, the question could arise as to whether, beyond 2019, 5 million euros would be released every year until the end of the quinquennium, to reach the 25 million euros planned, the 25 million which were apparently the subject of careful discussions last year, late in the night and from the potron-minet! I was not among you then, but I have the pleasure of exercising the right of continuation today. The EUR 25 million for research on paediatric cancers is guaranteed over the five years of the quinquennium: 5 million are guaranteed in 2019, even though the minister stressed the need to better understand how they are used, which is far from simple, especially for associations; 5 million will also be included in the budget in 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023. It's a question of trust between us: on this type of subject, we're not going to have fun waltzing reserves or redeployments. I will not go back to the substance, which has been mentioned by the advocates of the amendments and by the minister. In view of the guarantee that the 5 million for 2020 will be added to the 5 million for 2019, and in anticipation of the 5 million for 2021, I suggest that you, ladies and gentlemen, withdraw these amendments. Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u186	Since the subject of paediatric cancer is a particular subject, I too will distinguish Mrs Descamps from those amendments. You recalled, Madam Member, cancers represent, per year, in France, 150,000 deaths, 500 deaths of children, 385,000 new cases detected, 2500 new cases of paediatric cancers. The amount of €5 million committed by the Government over five years will obviously be included in the budget every year. I have already had the opportunity to remind him, the associations have worked with INCa to help with the dangling of these 5 million euros. The request was made last year for a consolidated vision of funding dedicated to cancer research, and in particular to research in pediatric cancerology. To this reserve, once again, that it is extremely difficult to classify basic research into categories as precise as those I am going to name, we conducted a survey of the units of the INSERM, on the understanding that it is not the only guardian of the biological units in France: of the 209 million euros spent on cancerology, 21 million concerned paediatric cancers in 2018. With regard to the competitive funding of INCa or the multi-agency thematic institute – ITMO – cancer of the National Alliance for Life and Health Sciences, AVIESAN, within the framework of the cancer plan, as well as the specific programmes of the ANR, EUR 119 million was spent on cancer research, of which EUR 10.3 million was spent on paediatric cancers. A total of €31.3 million was allocated to paediatric cancer research in 2018, plus the additional €5 million annually voted in 2019 and, I hope, the €5 million voted in the PLF for 2020. The amounts I have just mentioned relate to basic and clinical research activities. Of course, there are also prevention and care activities funded by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, including the cancer plan, with funding of 60 million. If I asked for this study, it is that, this time, we were able to include the wage bill in the figures, at least for the units that are under the responsibility of INSERM, but they probably remain far below what is actually being done in cancerology. The work carried out by INCa with the associations around the additional €5 million has shown that it is essential to be able to coordinate actions undertaken in a wide variety of disciplines in order to understand paediatric cancers and their specificities, and to be able to propose treatments. Associations have supported modeling research with specific markers of early paediatric cancers. It is extremely important to animate dialogue within the research community, regardless of the disciplines involved in this area. For all these reasons, the Government requests the withdrawal of the amendments; Otherwise, his opinion would be unfavourable. However, I would like to reiterate that the Government is heavily engaged in cancer research in general, and in paediatric cancer research in particular. This is a particularly painful subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u187	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u188	Paediatric cancers affecting children and adolescents must mobilize civil society as a whole. On several occasions, particularly with Bernard Perrut, we have called for child cancer to be declared a "major national cause" in order to ensure that the public authorities are fully engaged in the fight against these particularly aggressive cancers. I would like to see families and doctors who are watching us feel supported by the vote on additional research funding tonight. Unanimity would be a strong sign for all these young people who are fighting for life, as well as for their families and the associations around them. The figures are alarming: 1 in 440 children develop cancer before the age of 15, and nearly 2500 children and adolescents each year are diagnosed with cancer or leukemia in France. Nearly 500 of them will die, and this figure has not declined in the last fifteen years. That is, Madam Minister, the equivalent of nearly twenty school classes each year. There are more than 60 types of pediatric cancers. Research focuses primarily on adult cancers. However, malignant tumours detected in children are not of the same nature as adult tumours and therefore cannot be treated in the same way. The lack of resources allocated to research leads to a vicious circle and contributes to the maintenance of such figures. Few budgets, few researchers, and therefore few results. Last year, we voted €5 million for research aimed at reducing cancers in children, while 18 million were expected. This year, we must vote for credits that match the expectations of the sick children and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u189	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u190	I welcome the multi-year programming of this additional 5 million, but I would like to speak for parents and grandparents – I am a grandfather myself – whose children or grandchildren are affected by rare disease-related syndromes. Would it be possible, Madam Minister, to have a consolidated view of the budgets devoted to research in this area, as you have done for paediatric cancers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u191	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u192	I have asked you to speak, Madam President! What a funny way to preside...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u193	You will speak after the minister, Mr. Woerth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u194	I am unable to provide you immediately with the consolidated accounts of all expenditure related to research on rare paediatric diseases, Mr President, but I will of course do so if the House so wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u195	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor. I recall that the Government speaks whenever it wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u196	There are, however, usages, Madam President. Last year's debate was very difficult and, if EUR 5 million were voted, it was because the Government had, in the end, folded before the Parliament, which had explained to it, in a trans-partisan way, that it needed to see more clearly in the fight against cancer that affects children. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health was very closed on this point, but you were more open, and I thank you for that. There are, however, two things that I do not understand. First point: you indicate in the yellow budget that the appropriations are consolidated, but does that mean that you are going to add an additional EUR 5 million each year? That there would be no basic effect, but 25 million more credits in five years compared to 2018? If it were only to renew the same 5 million credits each year, the increase would not be 25 million but only 5 million, which is not conceivable! I want to be sure that it will be more than 25 million compared to 2018 in five years. I have not tabled an amendment on this subject, because that is what I understood at the outset, as it seems to me to be the Special Rapporteur, but I would like to have confirmation of that. Second point: I have already told you, Madam Minister, that I am amazed at the method. We wanted a follow-up last year, because Parliament is also there to control – it may not necessarily please the Government, but it is so – and that this follow-up is as transparent as possible and takes place in an atmosphere of mutual trust; There is no reason to squabble on this type of subject, which should not be controversial. I thought, for my part, after the meeting held on 6 March 2019 between your firm, officials of the National Cancer Institute and associated parliamentarians, including Amélie de Montchalin, that you would present to us elements relating to the overall budget reserved for the fight against childhood cancer, even if it is undoubtedly methodologically complicated, as well as the state of consumption of the 5 million euros of credits. That has not been done. Only one seminar was held, to which parliamentarians were invited only four or five days before, and without any documents being sent to them. I do not know whether it is by will, by incompetence or by distraction, but there has been an absolute ignorance of the role of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u197	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u198	I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out this ignorance, when there could be a large majority on the subject on all the benches and even unanimity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u199	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u200	Why such an attitude?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u201	I don't understand either!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u202	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u203	I repeat, Madam Minister: there is a real problem with INCa's calls for tenders. These are too restrictive and the EUR 5 million may therefore not be fully consumed, even though some projects are innovative. I propose, by my amendment, to draw up EUR 5 million from the appropriations for space research, whose overall budget is EUR 230 million, because I find it abnormal that the associations and the private sector as a whole concerned are always at the top of the funding for research on paediatric cancer. I hope that the President of the Republic, perhaps in the near future, will one day make paediatric cancer a major national cause. Efforts have been made by the State, but I think more can be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u204	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u205	President Woerth, there is indeed no cause for controversy. I have been asked about rare diseases, and other pathologies will be mentioned: there is no question of prioritizing pains and horrors – it is neither your wish nor mine. What happened? As a result of the Government's commitment, EUR 5 million was made available to INCa. By the way, I don't understand, Mr.Diard, why you feel that his management of tenders is not working well, while he manages all cancer funding scientifically – but we can see this closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u206	It's the associations that say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u207	A first call for tenders was concluded in very short time, at the beginning of the year, leading to the selection of two projects, and a second call for tenders was launched for an amount of EUR 3.5 million; The winners will be known shortly. If associations feel that the appeals are not proceeding well, it is important to hear them. President Woerth, I too was invited by INCa a few days before his restitution meeting, but I took the time to attend. Nevertheless, I regret that all this has been done in haste. It would probably have to be explained to INCa that these funds have been specifically requested by Parliament, so he must report to it, in particular, on their use.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u208	You could write it to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u209	I really wanted INCa and my department to work with Parliament in a transparent way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u210	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u211	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u212	I'm sorry if that wasn't the case. The method chosen was presented to the Senate last February by INCa, which responded to a request from senators to question it on this point. All the minutes of the meetings have been published online as they progressed; the platform was set up and the return to the associations took place. I had made the choice to report on the actions undertaken each year in the yellow budget, but, and I have already apologized, the publication schedule did not allow it before the review of the MIRES appropriations. It will be important to achieve this in order to ensure follow-up year after year, which is in the spirit of the measure. You sent me, Mr. President Woerth, a specific questionnaire on pediatric cancer in July, and my ministry replied, including extracts from the yellow budget. I am, I repeat, well aware that the content of the measure is not yet fully satisfactory with regard to the full cost of the measure, because it has to be evaluated by laboratory and that each researcher estimates the working time that he or she devotes specifically to this issue – compared to others, such as developmental biology or other aspects of cancerology in general. We also know that if we want to take the payroll into account in the cost, we need to apply a multiplier coefficient that my department is calculating as accurately as possible – knowing that, as it is never on the basis of this criterion that research funds are allocated, we need to develop a specific mapping. This will allow us to answer questions on other issues. It will be the heart of the future multi-year research programming law to provide information systems that will enable the ministry to better account for the use of public funding. However, you know the spirit of independence of researchers – very often recalled in this Chamber as elsewhere; They are driven by the need to be able to search freely, without its object being fixed a priori. It is true that this is also the way knowledge is produced, and a balance must be found. I have had the opportunity to discuss this with its chairman: if you wish, Mr Woerth, that the INCa officials should be heard by the Monitoring Group, there is no problem with that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u213	Radio silence from them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u214	I say again that I am sorry if you feel that things have not gone well. In any case, it is neither bad will nor incompetence on the part of the INCa, which, I believe, has demonstrated for several years its ability to manage funding dedicated to cancer in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u215	What a lack of transparency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u216	Since Amendments Nos 128 and 234 are both on the subject of hydrogen, I propose that they be presented by their authors before the committee and then the Government give their opinion. I call Mrs Elsa Faucillon, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, to support Amendment No. 128.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u217	This amendment, adopted by the Committee on Sustainable Development, aims to increase by EUR 20 million the allocation for research in the field of new energy technologies with a view to strengthening work on hydrogen solutions. It seemed to us, on all the benches, that solutions could thus be found not only in terms of sustainable mobility, but also in terms of the massive storage of renewable energies, that it was necessary to continue this research. The Government had promised to mobilize significant means to accelerate the maturation of these solutions, but we do not see the signs of the implementation of this commitment made in 2018, either in the current budget or in the draft finance bill for 2020. Through this amendment, the Commission on Sustainable Development wishes the Government to inform the Assembly on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u218	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 234.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u219	This amendment tabled on the initiative of our colleague Orphelin aims to provide an additional EUR 10 million for Action 17 "Research in the field of new energy technologies" of the 190 programme in order to support the research component of the hydrogen deployment plan. This is an amendment to be withdrawn from the one adopted in the Committee on Sustainable Development, so that at least part of the funding for the 2020 plan is guaranteed. To preserve the budget balance of the mission, we are obliged to display the artificial reduction of 10 million euros in Action 3 "Dual research in the aerospace field" of programme 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u221	I had the opportunity to say to Matthieu Orphelin, when he had come to defend his amendment before the Committee on Finance, that of course we shared the same concern as he did. These two amendments aim to abound the research component of the hydrogen plan. It turns out that this plan is being implemented mainly by the Environment and Energy Management Agency, ADEME, whose funds fall under the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". The deployment of hydrogen is a major scientific issue, involving many, sometimes long-standing, research institutes. As such, the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy is funding important research in this area, particularly concerning the decarbonization of hydrogen production – it should be noted that hydrogen emits CO when it is made from hydrocarbons, which further complicates the subject. Only the CEA relies on high-temperature electrolysis, the high efficiency of which would allow this technology to be established in the international market. He works for this in liaison with private partners who seek to decarbonize their business – I note in passing that a company is being set up in order to value the result of this research. ECA is also working on new materials to build storage tanks for hydrogen, a subject that is known to be particularly sensitive. Finally, it is preparing a partnership with the French Institute of Petroleum and New Energies, always on the same subject. In short, this issue is well taken into account, but it is largely outside the research and higher education budget. For this reason, I ask for the amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable, not because of a disagreement on the substance, but because the matter is dealt with in other ways, in particular by the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u223	Same opinion. The development of decarbonated hydrogen is one of the Government's priorities, which announced a €100 million hydrogen deployment plan. This plan will be mainly implemented by ADEME, but not only, as support for innovation also takes place through the future investment programme. Eleven projects, to be funded by ADEME, have already been selected as part of the call for projects "hydrogen mobility ecosystems". Five research projects on decarbonated hydrogen in industry have also been proposed for funding to the Prime Minister under the IAP, for a total amount of EUR 11 million – they are the more research-specific component. On the basis of the report prepared by MP Benoit Simian on the greening of rail transport, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition is also studying the possibility of supporting a first order of hydrogen trains by several regions, in order to initiate a dynamic in this field. The Government's strong commitment to hydrogen was confirmed at the recent Franco-German Council of Ministers. On this occasion, a convergence of French and German efforts in hydrogen use and energy storage was decided, with particular attention to the fact that hydrogen is decarbonised. If these actions do not therefore fall within the scope of this budgetary mission, I would like to reassure the National Assembly of the Government's attention to the proper implementation of the hydrogen plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u224	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u225	I maintain Amendment No 234, if only because I am not the first signatory. I would also like to take this opportunity to recall that, at all times, humanity has advanced on the basis of technological progress: this was the case with Paleolithic, Neolithic, during the first and second industrial revolution, and it has always allowed us to become more numerous, and less poor – without being able to say "richer". [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Today we are facing a situation whose gravity requires us to be present at the meeting and to start a massive research in all areas relating to the energy transition. But we are already late. It is therefore necessary to go there frankly, and to further research in the fields of material, process, economic intelligence, intelligence of objects, etc., in all fields. It's not an option, it's an obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u226	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u227	I cannot withdraw Amendment No 128, since it has been adopted fairly broadly by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning on the proposal of Mr Orphelin, with the willingness – and I express myself in full transparency – to obtain not only clarifications but also commitments. It seems to me, Madam Minister, that if the commitments are real with regard to demonstrators – relatively concrete elements are included in the budget – this is not the case with regard to research. That is precisely the point in the amendment. I therefore propose to maintain it, and let everyone express their position in the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u228	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 461.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u229	The aim of this amendment is to restore the appropriations for the action "Development of meteorology satellites" to their previous level, so as not to alter our means of observing and collecting climate data. The development of meteorological satellites helps to improve the collection and measurement of data used for weather and climate monitoring, to collect information on sea surface temperature, glacier progression and atmospheric pollution, or to inform light pollution studies. The climate and weather issues of our time have a pressing need to continue and boost the development of ever more efficient satellites, for the benefit of people – especially in territories such as the French Antilles, which are suffering increasingly powerful and dangerous cyclones – and biodiversity. However, the appropriations for the "Development of Meteorology Satellites" project are falling sharply between the 2019 Finance Act and the 2020 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u231	You note a significant decrease, between 2019 and 2020, in France's contribution to the development of meteorological satellites. This decline is simply due to the smaller needs of the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites – EUMETSAT – to which we are contributing. The decrease in appropriations therefore does not reflect a disengagement of the State: the contribution requested in 2019 corresponded to a peak linked to the active development phase of various observation programmes, which do not need to be extended to the same level in 2020. I would also like to stress – as we have already said on several occasions – that our space policy is a real priority in this budget, as evidenced by the €225 million increase in our contribution to the European Space Agency, ESA. The latter deploys the Copernicus programme dedicated to Earth observation, which also includes an emergency management component in the event of a catastrophic climate event. Thus, not only are we cleaning up particularly old payment delays, as I know we have been doing since 2017, but we will also restore our credibility in European programmes. As far as meteorology satellites are concerned, we simply adapt to the annual demand of the European institution managing these development programmes. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u232	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u233	To complement the explanations given by the Special Rapporteur, we have chosen to increase the envelopes of ESA and CNES. The European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites is implementing the "Development of Meteorology Satellites" project, which recorded a decrease of €27.4 million. With EUMETSAT's surplus account, calls for funds to individual states for this year are lower than in previous years. Since we had a surplus in the EUMETSAT account, we budgeted a smaller amount for 2020 to use this surplus while continuing to support the action at the same level as in 2019. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u234	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr David?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u235	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u236	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u237	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 506.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u238	This amendment is based on the fact that there is a difference in funding between "hard" science research, funded up to 95% – which is very good, of course! – and research in literature and social sciences, whose funding rate is in the order of 40%, is insufficient. The aim of this amendment is therefore to make up for our backlog in the rate of access to doctorates in the social sciences and humanities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u240	Dear colleague, of course we share your concern to better support doctoral research, particularly in the social and human sciences. In this connection, it should be noted that action 3 of the 150 programme for initial and continuing training of the Ph.D. level has been increased by EUR 2 million. However, there are two problems with your amendment. First, it would create a new programme based solely on Ph.D.s in the humanities, which would be quite singular, since Action 3 must focus on the whole field. Secondly, and even if it is only a pledge, the withdrawal of EUR 25 million from ESPICs – private health institutions of collective interest – which fulfil, as has been said in the preamble, a public service mission, would be very penalising for these institutions, which have seen their number of students increase sharply in recent years. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u242	In general, the Government pays close attention to the financing of doctorates. This is one of the measures proposed by the Task Force on the Attractiveness of Scientific Jobs and Careers – in the full sense of this term – and on which we will work in the framework of the multi-year research programming bill. The particular question of funding PhDs in the humanities and social sciences, which vary greatly according to the disciplines, is also related to the number of PhD students enrolled per research authorization holder, as well as the number of years required to obtain these doctorates. It will be addressed as a whole within the framework of the multi-year research programming bill. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn, failing which the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u243	Mrs Ressiguier, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u244	Not being the author, I will not remove it. Nevertheless, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u245	On the identical amendments Nos 174 and 294, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to several amendments which may be the subject of a thematic discussion on Lyme disease. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u246	The aim of this amendment is to give INSERM additional resources for a genuine research programme on Lyme disease. Indeed, the numerous hearings we conducted in the context of the work of the study group on this disease, co-chaired by our colleagues Nicole Trisse and Vincent Descoeur, have allowed us to see that controversies surround both the diagnosis and the serological tests, the management and the treatment of these pathologies. The controversy is even more acute with regard to recognition of the chronicity of the disease, an issue that strongly divides the medical community. The measure we are proposing was considered necessary and useful in view of the increase in the number of reports registered by Public Health France. In 2018, 67,000 new cases were diagnosed, i.e. 104 per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to 69 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2017. Today we are facing a disease that is developing strongly and on which research is insufficient. The aim of this amendment is therefore to provide an additional €20 million for "Scientific and technological research in the life and health sciences", by allocating it to INSERM, so that specialists on severe and persistent forms of Lyme disease can work on these issues, including co-infections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u247	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 472.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u248	I could take on board everything Mrs Dubie has just said, which has explained the situation very well. Madam Minister, you said earlier, quite rightly, that the pain following the illness should not be graduated. But the victims of Lyme disease feel completely obscured, because of the problems of diagnosis and because within the medical community, doctors do not agree with each other. We all come to the conclusion that there is a lack of means to properly diagnose the disease and to properly accompany the victims. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] That is why we are asking for additional funds to be directed towards research on this disease, which affects an increasing number of people, mainly in eastern France, and is beginning to spread throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u249	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor in support of Amendment No 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u250	As a result of tick bite, many patients suffer from severe and persistent forms of Lyme disease. Despite an antibiotic treatment of two to four weeks, this pathology can be assimilated to a polymorphic syndrome after tick bite. These patients suffer from severe fatigue, muscle or joint pain, skin, heart, neurological and psychological disorders, and may even suffer from memory and concentration disorders. Yet these suffering patients are not recognized medically and socially. Too often, they find themselves in a situation of therapeutic wandering. We are thus faced with a real health problem. I do not want to go into the details of the debate that is agitating the medical profession, because it primarily serves patients, but this debate underlines that we lack a thorough understanding of the mechanism of Lyme disease and its severe and persistent forms. It is not surprising, however, because public funds dedicated to basic, applied and clinical research are almost null in France. But Lyme disease currently affects tens of thousands of people, and if nothing is done, it will affect hundreds of thousands in a few years. We therefore believe that a better understanding of this disease is essential in order to make a real difference in the lives of the sick. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] We therefore propose to increase public funds for basic, applied and clinical research against tick vector disease by EUR 11 million, by allocating these funds to INSERM. They could be attributed, under the supervision of the scientific council of the French Federation against tick vector diseases, to research projects carried out with specialists in the severe and persistent forms of Lyme diseases and co-infections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u251	We come to two identical amendments, Nos 174 and 294. Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u252	The aim of this amendment is to increase funding for Lyme disease research. The funds available to public research institutions, in particular INSERM, in this regard are minimal, if not non-existent. As part of the work carried out under the Lyme Disease Study Group, of which I am co-chair with Mr Vincent Descoeur, we quickly realized that better support for research on Lyme disease – I am thinking in particular of screening tests – could help ease tensions. We are, in fact, faced with totally distraught patients and a fractured scientific and medical community. The medical error of these patients represents a real cost to our society and we should instead focus financial efforts on research into this disease. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] I therefore propose, with this amendment, to increase by EUR 10 million the appropriations for Action 15 "Scientific and technological research in the life and health sciences" within the programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u253	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor to support Amendment No. 294.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u254	Madam Minister, when I asked you in committee about Lyme disease research, you told me that it was not fundamental research. All right. However, in September 2016, the High Health Authority launched a national plan to combat Lyme disease, aimed at increasing and coordinating research. A sterile guerilla divides the medical community, while patients with Lyme disease suffer and thousands of new cases are reported every year, as Ms. Dubie, Ms. Trisse, Mr. Naegelen and Ms. Trastour-Isnart have just pointed out. In June 2018 a national diagnostic and care protocol – PNDS – was published, but the High Health Authority sown the disorder, so that we are still in a dead end, while INSERM does not have the ability to respond to the challenges of reliability of tests and treatment management. The Government has just announced the establishment of reference and identification centres for the management of vector-borne diseases, creating some hopes for patients with severe forms of Lyme disease and those who are in a state of misdiagnosis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The purpose of this amendment, tabled at the initiative of Mr Descoeur, is therefore to give research the means to be able to provide answers to the patients and to the associations that defend them, in abundance of the funds of the programme "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research" of EUR 10 million taken from those of the programme "Cultural research and scientific culture".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u255	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor in support of Amendment No 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u256	Madam President, if I may, I will support Amendment No 375 at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u257	Please, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u258	These are two amendments which are in line with those which my colleagues have just tabled. They are intended to provide INSERM with additional appropriations of EUR 10 million for the first, EUR 5 million for the second.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u259	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u260	According to the latest figures provided by the Ministry of Health, between 2017 and 2018 there was a significant increase in the number of new cases of Lyme disease in France: 104 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2018, compared to 69 per 100,000 in 2017, or close to 70000 new cases diagnosed in 2018. At the same time, many patients report difficulties in the diagnosis, management and treatment of their disease. It is therefore now essential to increase public funding for research on Lyme disease and tick-borne diseases. As a follow-up to the strategic axis 5 " Mobilising research on tick-borne diseases" of the national plan to combat Lyme disease and tick-borne diseases launched in 2016, this amendment aims to strengthen the research effort on these diseases by an additional €2 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u261	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u262	Far from my will to underestimate the importance of the problem. However, I must reply as Special Rapporteur for the "Research and Higher Education" mission of the Finance Bill. In the case of Lyme disease, priority is given to clinical research. The challenge is to better diagnose the symptoms, because we don't know them well. However, this issue came out in particular in the Department of Solidarity and Health – but I imagine that the minister will say so. Inserm, responsible for various plans to coordinate the activities carried out on the subject, has set up a thematic institute dedicated to research on Lyme disease, in liaison with the Institut Pasteur, INRA, the National Agency for Research and several hospital-university centres. I therefore propose that these amendments be withdrawn; Otherwise, the committee's opinion would be unfavourable – not to kick in, but because this is a matter for another budget mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u264	Lyme disease research is already receiving national funding, notably through hospital clinical research programmes and through the ANR, as well as European funding under the Horizon 2020 programme. As far as MIRES funds are concerned, the ANR funds in particular the OHTicks Participatory Research Programme – One Health Ticks – coordinated by INRA in liaison with the Institut Pasteur, which consists of setting up, in four hospital centres in France, a cohort of people with ticks and symptoms. The aim is to develop better methods of detection – especially with high-speed sequencing – and characterization, thus improving diagnosis. Conducted under the authority of AVIESAN and INSERM, the DIABOLYC – B correliosis diagnosis of Skin Lyme – allows for a skin diagnosis of Lyme disease. The difficulty lies in the ability to obtain an early diagnosis, as one is perfectly able to treat the Borrelia bacteria with antibiotics. The problem arises if the diagnosis is delayed and if other effects occur. Mobilization is also very strong on the side of clinicians in the Greater East Region. In addition, the CiTIC citizens and ticks programme, funded by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the European Commission, foresees, in 2019, a new cohort of prospective follow-up research of 8000 patients suspected of carrying Lyme disease. We also mention the centres of competence and reference for the management of vector diseases, which are also run by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. At European level, the problem is also taken into account, since two projects, financed to the tune of EUR 5.4 million, have been drawn up. Finally, the measures dedicated to the national plan for the prevention and control of Lyme disease and tick-borne diseases, implemented by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and health agencies, with the support of INRA, are another priority. It is therefore a multi-stakeholder and multi-stakeholder research that will help to combat this disease in a more coordinated way. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u265	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u266	For the past 15 years, our country has been lagging behind in the field of basic research and applied and clinical research, which now needs to be filled with the glaring deficit in order to cope with the development of this pandemic, the Lyme B correliosis. I am thinking, unfortunately, among other things, of a young woman from Saint-Marcellin-en-Forez who was the victim. That is why we have tabled these amendments, which aim to allocate to INSERM essential funds for research into the severe and persistent forms of Lyme disease and its co-infections. The research would gradually put an end to scientific controversy and provide the patient with diagnostic and therapeutic solutions, responding to all situations. We propose that the amount of these additional funds be EUR 10 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u268	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u269	I just want to recall that on 3 July last, several hundred people, sick people and their families, demonstrated in Paris, close to the National Assembly, at the call of the Ensemble contre Lyme movement, to call for full recognition of Lyme disease, the establishment of a medical research policy to meet the challenge of health and better care for patients. I would like to hear the argument that much is already being done in terms of research, but patients do not feel it at all, and that is the first thing to answer. As the medical profession does not agree on the methods of detection or on the treatment of the disease, it seems that the patients are left in deep disarray and – to put it briefly – that we are content with the strict minimum. Such an answer is not at the height of France or the expectations of the sick, who do not understand why they are left on the edge of the road. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] We must therefore stop procrastination and give INSERM the means to confront this disease and to end it once and for all with the current controversy, in order to be able to truly and concretely respond to the needs of the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u270	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u271	If clinical research is undertaken, the problem, as has been said, is that they are not bearing fruit. Above all, a very hard confrontation today divides the medical community and learned societies. If we have tabled these amendments as part of the research and higher education mission, it is that we want this issue to be the subject of fundamental research, under the authority of a non-partisan body. This concern for impartiality leads us to ask that these appropriations be granted to INSERM. (Applause from the LT panel)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u272	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 174 and 294.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u273	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 22 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u274	Amendment No 505 by Mr Guillaume Garot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u275	This amendment, although interesting, is largely satisfied. As the time for the adjournment of the sitting approaches, I shall say no more. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u276	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 446.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u277	This amendment seeks to draw the consequences of the transition from the Group of National Schools of Economics and Statistics – GENES – to the broader responsibilities and competences defined in Article L. 711-9 of the Education Code as of 1 January 2020. It therefore proposes to transfer the staff expenditure appropriations from Title 2 of Programme 192 to Title 3 of Programme 192 in order to enable these institutions to benefit from the extended responsibilities and competences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u278	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor to support Amendment No. 604.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u279	Through this amendment, I plead for the recognition of a third sector of research. The idea is to move towards a gradual expansion of the French research and innovation system towards society as soon as the draft finance law for 2020, ahead of Parliament's consideration of the draft multi-annual research programming law. I start from the following observation: only public research, including higher education, and industrial research, mainly in large companies, today benefit from public research and innovation policies. While one can understand the desire for optimization and refocusing with regard to international scientific competition, one can also see the concentration of human resources and investment in the territory. It is therefore a matter of advocating for a first recognition of the part of society that has been excluded from public policies and research and innovation activities since the 1960s: non-market sector actors, such as associations, trade unions or local authorities; actors in the not-for-profit trading sector, particularly within the ESS – the social and solidarity economy – and among professional groups; as well as self-entrepreneurs or agricultural or artisanal groups. The amendment aims to increase to EUR 8.5 million the allocation of a new sub-action, Third Research Sector, of Programme 190, for the financing of research cooperation with high societal impact, between public research institutions and the third research sector. Such cooperation would enable us to respond to societal challenges, to develop our capacity to face current challenges – for example, urban planning, land management, transport, sustainable mobility and biodiversity conservation. This amendment also aims at the creation by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation of a FONJEP scheme – funds for cooperation in youth and popular education – in order to consolidate the ongoing experiment launched by Secretary of State Gabriel Attal in November 2018, as well as FONJEPs linked to city policy, environmental policy or cultural policy. It is therefore an institutional change that would not disrupt current balances but would broaden the range of potential actors that we would like to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u281	I cannot deliver an opinion on behalf of the committee, because it has not examined this amendment, but I personally find it very well documented and very interesting, if only because it affects a very wide range of actors and sectors of public research. Such a measure would, I believe, have its full place in the framework of the multi-year research programming bill, which we will have to consider in the coming months: in addition to giving us time to upgrade, your amendment, Mr Kerlogot, is, in my view, more of a multi-annual programme. Wisdom – but this proposal commits only me, I repeat – would therefore be in my view to withdraw it, in order to return to it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u283	We need to address this issue in the context of the multi-year research programming bill, as other actors, such as associations and communities, are involved in funding research and higher education. Request for withdrawal, therefore; failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u284	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u285	Thank you for that clarification. Through this appeal amendment, I wanted to give a measure of what is at stake under the future multiannual programming law. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u286	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-28-O1044.u287	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020: Further examination of the appropriations of the research and higher education mission; Review of the appropriations of the "Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Affairs" Mission and the "Agricultural and Rural Development" Trust Account. The meeting is adjourned.
