ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u1	The next item is the debate on the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2493, 2504).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u3	I am pleased to meet you for the new reading of the Finance Bill for 2020 in the National Assembly. We are approaching this text at a time when the French economy is facing real difficulties. Some of them are cyclical, linked to the current strike movement, which particularly affects traders, small businesses, TPEs – very small businesses – and number of employees. I would like to take advantage of our discussions to reiterate to the traders that the Government will stand by them and will take all necessary measures to continue their activities under the best conditions. I received them last week and we will receive them as many times as necessary to study with them the measures to be taken to accompany them and support them in this holiday period where activity is usually supported. There are also challenges at the international level, as global growth continues to slow down, particularly because of the consequences of trade tensions between China and the United States. Most of the major emerging economies are experiencing a decline in their activity. In Europe, it must be recognised that the business climate has deteriorated significantly at the end of the year. Growth for 2019, which we initially anticipated at 1.4%, is expected to ultimately reach, as I had the opportunity to say this morning, 1.3%, given the third quarter data available and the fourth quarter forecasts. This figure should be confirmed by INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – which will deliver its forecasts tomorrow in its economic note. I would like to make three points. First, this adjustment, which is within the margin of error, has no impact on the assessment of revenue and expenditure in 2019. As our forecasts are based on actual figures, we confirm the deficit of 3.1% for 2019. Secondly, this economic performance remains strong: French growth will be higher in 2019 than the euro area's average growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u4	Let's ask ourselves why!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u5	German growth will probably be twice as low in 2019, which again calls, as I repeat tirelessly, for fiscal policy to take over from monetary policy in the states – Germany, among others – that have the capacity to do so. No one can be satisfied with the low level of growth in the euro area, which has an impact on employment, overall activity and the prosperity of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u6	You're a Chicago boy, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u7	Thirdly, for 2020, our growth forecast remains unchanged at 1.3%. I note, moreover, that most conjuncturists as well as the European Central Bank expect risk stabilization in the euro area in 2020. In this deteriorating internal and international context, the French economy is doing better than resisting: it stands above the euro area average, thanks in particular to the purchasing power measures decided by the Government and the investment of enterprises, which remains dynamic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u8	It works together! Say thank you to the yellow vests!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u9	Therefore, it is wise to recall the economic line that we have been defending for almost three years, with the Prime Minister and under the authority of the President of the Republic. First of all, we are pursuing an offer policy based on clear policy choices, which have been consistently confirmed and will remain so in the coming years. The first choice, vital for our compatriots, is a better pay for work. It is a choice of justice and economic efficiency. All the measures taken – a reduction in income tax from 1 January 2020, an increase of 100 euros in the activity premium which thus reaches the level of the SMIC, support for self-interest – are aimed precisely at ensuring that every person with a job in our country can live with dignity. In particular, I hope that interest will be widespread among the smallest French companies in the coming months. I have heard the remarks and concerns of small business managers who consider this to be too complicated, too cumbersome. I would remind you that we have taken three measures for the radical simplification of the agreement of interest, so that it can be developed in the smallest companies in France: the possibility of signing it for one year rather than three years; simplifying the form; the authorization, for smaller enterprises, those employing fewer than 11 employees, to adopt the first agreement of interest by unilateral declaration by the entrepreneur, without the obligation to support or sign employees. With this last measure, which I announced this morning and which we want to implement as soon as possible, as many employees as possible will be able to benefit from this agreement as soon as possible. I would like to point out that the signing of an interest agreement is a condition for the payment of a defiance premium to employees. The increase in these agreements over the next few weeks, thanks to these simplifications, is therefore in the interest of the country's employees, entrepreneurs and economic activity. The second choice of this supply policy is the restoration of the competitiveness of enterprises. All companies, without exception, will see their taxes continue to fall in 2020. Their decrease will amount to EUR 1 billion in total, thanks to the reduction in corporate tax, the reduction in the levies allocated to the CCIs – the chambers of commerce and industry – and the opening of new possibilities for exemption for trade in rural areas. The third choice is the control of our public finances, since in the 2020 budget we have changed tax expenditure in favour of companies, reduced the number of tax niches and continued the decline of certain expenditure, particularly concerning the KICs, in order to achieve a public deficit of 2.2% in 2020, the lowest rate in France in 20 years. If we persevere in these political choices, it is for a simple reason: they give results: growth, as I have told you, is solid; 540000 jobs have been created since 2017; our country is one of the most attractive in the euro area in terms of foreign investment. These three results call for us to remain on the course of our policy, which is based on an improved offer, better compensation for employees and the restoration of our public finances. These stable choices will lead to the success of France and the French, but must be accompanied by an anticipation of the major changes that are expected, especially in terms of technology and the fight against climate change. We know, for example, that the automotive industry has been facing unprecedented technological upheavals since its appearance in the 20th century. Several months ago, industrialists, especially second- or third-tier subcontractors, expressed their concerns to us. After listening to them, we have built a support plan for the automotive sector, which will be studied as part of the new reading, in the framework we will propose that you spend EUR 50 million to support companies in difficulty and to diversify them. We also propose that part of this amount guarantees the loans of subcontractors to enable them to finance themselves in 2020, which will give them a considerable leverage effect. The financing of the EUR 50 million will be provided by deflation of the car malus for vehicles emitting more than 172 grams of CO per kilometre. I know that this proposal, which we will make to you under Article 18 of the PLF, will provoke debate, but I do not see why the malus would be progressive for all vehicles emitting up to 172 grams of CO per kilometre but capped above. We believe in the principle that the more you cap, the more you pay. We also want to continue to support the chambers of commerce and industry. At first reading, you adopted several measures and we listened to you by deleting the France Télécom levy. We are committed today to follow up on this reform. I know that the Chambers of Commerce and Industry are very committed to the introduction of an annual review clause, in the form of a report by CCI France, submitted to the Government and Parliament, on the sustainability of the ITC's financial trajectory. I am in favour of such a report, which, submitted before each FLP, will enable us to assess the impact of our decisions on the KICs, which is a good policy. Finally, the transformation is affecting the ecology sector, in particular with the reform of taxation on non-road diesel. As you know, I have had this measure preceded by a very large number of consultations, and we have decided to conduct it in three steps instead of one, from 1 July 2020 rather than 1 January 2020, and with a whole series of compensations for the construction and public works sector. We have carried out this reform with the craftsmen of public works, who have rightly pointed out to us the lack of equity in the markets, with some operators using defied diesel. This will no longer be possible because we want to guarantee fairness and put an end to unfair competition in the markets in France. More generally, these decisions are a prelude to the productive pact, and I will make a number of proposals at the beginning of January, before the President of the Republic sets out the broad guidelines, at the end of the same month. The objective of this pact is to maintain strong French production while engaging and accelerating the decarbonization of our economy. With this pact, we want to prove that it is possible to be a powerful and decarbonized economy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Our economy is strong, in a particularly unstable and fragile economic environment, which prompts us to continue the transformation of the economy engaged with the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u10	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u11	To complement the intervention of the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would just like to point out that, unfortunately, as usual, the Joint Joint Committee has not reached agreement on all the provisions of the PLF for 2020: of the 393 articles in the text adopted by the Senate, only 111 – which is already considerable – have been voted in conformity, or a little more than a quarter. The text before you has been profoundly amended by the Senate, which immediately rejected the appropriations for five missions: "Security", "Ecology, sustainable development and mobility", "Agriculture, food, forestry and rural affairs", "Justice" but also "Immigration, asylum and integration". This has de facto led to a reduction in expenditure of EUR 52.7 billion, which is neither desirable nor credible given the importance of these missions. The Government will therefore propose that you re-establish the appropriations for each of them. Beyond the incredibility, at least, of these changes, you will not be surprised that the Government is opposed to all measures aimed at challenging the reforms that have been carried out for more than two and a half years. The new reading is also an opportunity to highlight the contradictory minimum nature of certain positions adopted by the Senate. Thus, the Senate majority expressed its commitment to the energy transition while making the choice to simply reject the mission's appropriations on this issue. Similarly, the Senate reminded us of its opposition to the IFI – the property tax – but at the same time provided for several provisions aimed at correcting certain side effects that it considered penalizing. Similarly, the Senate has told us of its opposition to the reform of local taxation, without, however, deleting the corresponding article or questioning the architecture or redistribution of the local tax revenue we are proposing. More generally, while the Senate majority claims to support the objective of improving our public accounts, it has passed a number of amendments whose overall cost exceeds the understanding: following the examination of the first part of the Senate, the balance had thus been reduced by more than €4 billion. You will not be surprised, therefore, that the Government is proposing to continue last year's effort to reduce inefficient tax expenditures, and is opposed to all the provisions adopted by the Senate, on the contrary, to increase certain tax expenditures: I am thinking, to take only two examples of this creative imagination, of raising the limit of the tax reduction "IFI Donations" or of raising the limit of the annual deduction of expenditure on the acquisition of original works of living artists. The examination at first reading showed that the reduction of inefficient tax expenditure was a shared concern on the benches of the Assembly, in particular by the rapporteur-general. The same applies to the abolition of low-yield taxes, a subject on which Laurent Saint-Martin has been particularly involved. Without carrying out an exhaustive analysis, which will take place during the general debate, I take this opportunity to welcome the work of both the majority and the opposition in Parliament. I will mention just a few examples. An amendment by Sacha Houlié aims to maintain, for the beneficiaries of the so-called "old parents" clause, the exemption from housing tax and contribution to the audiovisual sector. Pires Beaune has been involved in strengthening the framework for tax advisers; At first reading an amendment was adopted to extend the scope of the scheme to cover VAT fraud as a whole, and we will have the opportunity to discuss an even wider extension, as the Court of Auditors invites us to do. I am also thinking of Mr Dufrègne's amendment on half the widows of veterans. In a trans-partisan spirit, I will also mention the lowering of the turnover threshold applicable to the tax residence of large employers, a provision of Article 3 on which the Senate has not returned; the rapporteur-general proposes to re-establish the version adopted by the National Assembly at first reading while excluding from the scope of the measure leaders who do not exercise an executive mandate and specifying that the persons concerned are deemed to be carrying out their main activity in France, "unless they report proof to the contrary" – the Government will be in favour of this amendment. I also want to say a word about some of the measures introduced by the Senate in our view, subject to some adjustments here or there. I am thinking in particular of the Senate-inspired amendment tabled in the House by Daniel Labaronne to exempt EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent elderly people from housing tax. The Government is in favour of such an exemption from 2021. The Government will present you with a limited number of amendments. Beyond the measures mentioned by the Minister of Economy and Finance on the GNR – the non-road diesel – we will draw the consequences of certain announcements made since the first reading, in particular with regard to the deflation of the car malus and the support plan for the automotive sector. The financial support arrangements for the regions under the apprenticeship reform will also be adjusted, with increased resources allocated to them. With regard to the funding arrangements of the Association for the Support of Private Theatre, we propose that you continue to consult with the players in the sector prior to any evolution. The sincerity of the draft budget we are submitting to you is a priority. The new reading will be an opportunity to update our revenue and expenditure forecasts, in line with the latest information that has been presented to you in the context of the 2019 Finance Amendment Bill. The resumption of fiscal gains in 2019, particularly on transfer fees, thus leads us to increase the forecast of revenues by €1.4 billion. In terms of expenditure, given the dynamism of social benefits observed in 2019, we will propose that you increase significantly, up to 750 million euros, the appropriations for the activity premium and the allowance for adults with disabilities. Taking into account the end-of-year forecasts formulated as early as the original finance law with a budget objective as close as possible to the compulsory expenditure, we are preparing a more sustainable and serene management. These adjustments lead to a very slight upward revision of the government deficit, amounting to around EUR 100 million, but not our forecast of the government deficit, which we maintain at 2.2%. Finally, in keeping with the action we have been taking over the past two years, we maintain our demand for budgetary discipline. The amendments to the appropriations that we will submit to you will thus be part of our approach to the Sincerisation of Accounts – we will have the opportunity to come back to this during the debates. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will have understood, the Government considers it desirable to re-establish the text adopted by your Assembly at first reading very broadly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u12	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u13	The new reading of the PLF for 2020 follows the failure of the CMP last Wednesday. It is necessary before the Government asks our Assembly to take a final decision, in accordance with the last paragraph of article 45 of the Constitution. [[Smile]] The discussion of the PLF was fruitful, both in the Assembly and in the Senate. Our Assembly thus adopted 80 articles from the original text, deleted 1 of them and introduced 164 additional articles. The Senate, for its part, adopted 110 articles in a consistent manner, confirmed the deletion of 1 and deleted 37 articles adopted by the Assembly, including 5 articles of the original bill. It has finally adopted 148 additional articles, which is not little... As President Éblé in CMP recalled, the PLF for 2020 is the most voluminous text that the Senate has adopted since the beginning of the Fifth Parliament. I myself have done the accounts: on a new reading, the discussion was on 282 articles deleted, amended or inserted by the Senate, compared to 241 last year and only 150 the previous year. This trend is cause for concern: the delays in the examination of an FLP, which is very constrained, have probably not been imagined for projects made up, in the end, of 300 to 400 articles. The vote on the budget is one of the most important acts of Parliament; It is therefore important to ensure good conditions for examination – as you see, at the end of my mandate as rapporteur-general, I am beginning to draft some testamentary provisions. In the CMP, I have noted that, on many issues, the parliamentary shuttle has made it possible to enrich the PLF opportunely. On behalf of the Committee on Finance, I will propose that you continue to have almost 90 articles as adopted by the Senate. However, the CMP could not succeed due to major differences which made the two versions of the PLF, adopted by both chambers, irreconcilable. I have thus noted several stumbling blocks. In Article 2, the Senate raised the ceiling for the family quotient to 1750 euros, which would significantly worsen the budgetary balance. In Article 4, the reform of the ISCED – the tax credit for the energy transition – decided by the Assembly was substantially amended, with the Senate, for example, reintroducing the eligibility of affluent households, down from the original objective of refocusing the scheme on modest households. In Article 5, the Senate, through no less than forty-two amendments, substantially changed the economy of local tax reform. On this subject, the major difficulty that I have been able to identify is the postponement of the reform by one year, but we must also mention the increase in the amount of compensation to be paid to the local authorities as a result of the abolition of the TH – the housing tax –, far beyond a reasonable compensation to the nearest euro. Article 47 E replaces the property tax with an "unproductive capital tax", which, notwithstanding the retention of the acronym, is an interesting originality on the tax side. Finally, the Senate, as I said, has reduced the deficit by EUR 53 billion, since the appropriations for five missions, particularly those relating to agriculture and ecology, have been rejected in their entirety. Dissensus of this magnitude, of which I have given only a few examples, prohibited an agreement. The CMP therefore logically failed, and the Finance Committee handed over the work on the trade last Friday. I have proposed that it adopt nearly 280 amendments, keeping an open mind when it seems to me appropriate: the drafting of 36 articles preserves some of the Senate's contributions. On the other hand, the committee proposes to simply reinstate forty-four articles in the Assembly version and to delete one hundred articles created by the Senate. The purpose of these amendments is also to restore the budgetary balances that we adopted at first reading. Indeed, after the examination of the first part of the PLF, the Senate degraded the budgetary balance by 1.5 billion euros, bringing the state deficit to almost 95 billion euros in 2020, compared to 93.3 billion euros after the vote in the National Assembly. In the second part, the Senate, as I have pointed out, has removed EUR 53 billion of budgetary appropriations, so that the government deficit in the text before us today is only EUR 42 billion, and the public balance, all of which is government, is virtually at a balance, at less than 0.1 percentage points of GDP. The amendments by the Finance Committee and the Government to reintroduce the appropriations which have been withdrawn will enable the introductory article and the balancing article to be re-established at levels very close to those which we voted on 19 November. [[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I end with this, using only half of my ten minutes of speaking time: this is, I think, the best Christmas gift I can give you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u14	That's an elegant gesture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u15	A song, Mr. Rapporteur General!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u16	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u17	[[Smile]] With only five minutes of speaking time, I fear that I can be as generous as the rapporteur-general... We find ourselves, on the occasion of the new reading of the finance law for 2020, in a social climate that is hardly more soothed than a year ago, that is the least we can say. On December 10, 2019, the President of the Republic announced a series of measures that today weigh heavily on the balance of our public finances. The effort to reduce the deficit in this LFP has been the least ambitious in ten years: 0.1% – our deficit will thus reach twice that of the euro area average. Public expenditure is rising by 0.4% in volume, or about €20 billion excluding tax credits. Just as the trajectory of the billiard ball prolongs the player's gesture, the stagnation of the deficit at such a high level is an extension of your policy. I will probably be taxed to be an accountant or to sacrifice to budgetary orthodoxy – that is what I often hear when we plead for a reduction in spending and deficits. But orthodoxy in France, on the contrary, consists in spending the money that we do not have by putting this expenditure on the backs of future generations. From this point of view, unfortunately, this budget does not escape tradition. Yet it is our budgetary sovereignty that is at stake; to continue in this direction, we will one day lose it. I am afraid that the reform of pensions will in fact cost us a lot of money in order to bring up a burning news in this regard. While a number of measures presented last week must be supported, the first of the justices, the one that is owed to future generations and already to the young active people of today, is the financial balance of our system by distribution; Otherwise, the system will expose. Financial balance is a systemic parameter. Our social model is one of the most generous in the world, but social dissatisfaction is particularly strong in France. The truth is that we will not solve this French problem, this French paradox with financial imbalances. The Senate, from this point of view, has often gone in the right direction with the changes it has made to the text, and I have no doubt, of course, that the majority will agree with most of them – it has not done so in committee, but I am sure it will come together again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u18	Um, um!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u19	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u20	In any case, I remain resolutely opposed to the removal, unfunded, of the housing tax. In addition to being particularly costly – more than €20 billion – this measure breaks down an essential link between the taxpayer and local public services, which, in the absence of direct financing, could become a mere consumer. This reform is rather technocratic, if not demagogic, if, as is the case, it is not accompanied by a reduction in public expenditure. Under these conditions, we cannot afford to reduce income tax simultaneously, as this finance bill provides for, to the tune of EUR 5 billion – again in the absence of any funding. We could start thinking about the taxation of the twenty-first century; I know, Minister, that you are particularly interested in this subject. With regard to green taxation, I reiterate my opposition to the worsening of the car malus, which would now affect 60 % of new vehicles. It is putting millions of people in a situation where they have no alternative but to pay, without it protecting the environment more. The Senate has appropriately expanded the scope of the revised ISCED and adjusted the airfare tax, which has nothing to do with green taxation. But we need to go further, and perhaps rethink the system: where are your proposals on a green tax reform, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State? Nowhere! At first reading, I had proposed, among other possible measures, the introduction of a green component in France's large taxes, at constant rates, in order to finance a specific programme that would enable us to achieve our objectives of reducing our carbon footprint. As far as digital taxation is concerned, we will have a debate on TASCOM – the commercial area tax – which is one of several measures in this area. The imbalance in the level of levy between physical and e-commerce is a major issue; I also, supported by many colleagues, have proposed to the Finance Committee that the matter be taken up early next year, since the amendments voted by the Senate in this respect have been rejected by our House. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, we will obviously be very attentive to your forthcoming announcements, Minister, on the trajectory of production taxes. I hope that we will not have to have a long view to see the effects, as we must do for pension reform...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u22	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u23	This new reading, I fear, will not change much to the first. However, it is an opportunity for us to compare the results we observe with your first announcements. You spoke of the "context," minister. Well, the global context is not limited to trade tensions between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China; the context, it is first and foremost a general insurrection of the peoples against the consequences of neoliberal policies applied with unprecedented ferocity in all the countries of the world. The hardest hit are those who have moved in. Our time is that of peoples and citizen revolutions. These revolutions are not driven by ideological considerations, as in the past, but by simple demands. Society, under the influence of neoliberal fiscal policies, no longer responds to people's basic demands: to have access to electricity, to drinking water, to receive care, to see their children educated normally... all this became an issue when yesterday it was still a social acquis. So, of course, here, between us, continues the ideological confrontation, respectful of each other's points of view, between two visions of the world. You're still convinced that runoff will happen if you allow fortune to accumulate at one end of society. For our part, we remain convinced that the policy of supply does not correspond to any need of society and is therefore doomed either to produce things that are useless but that are hoped to be needed through advertising, or to lead to dewatering of resources because we are looking everywhere to reduce wages and public benefits, thinking that things need to accumulate at one end of society and then run into the rest. Only in politics, in my opinion, is the idea that the economy is at the service of human beings, not the other way around; So only demand policy makes sense because it is it which, unlike supply policy, stimulates the economy and inventiveness. The proof of this has been given in our country. If France, together with Portugal – I will come back – has the highest growth rate among the countries of Europe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u25	... it is because it alone, following a social struggle, that of the yellow vests, to have poured 17 billion euros into popular consumption, which have fully contributed positively to economic activity. In Europe, absurd policies are applied, of which the right-wing German government is the initiator, leading to restriction everywhere. There is a counter-example: Portugal, the only country where social gains are growing and where the economy is in less difficulty than anywhere else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u26	You have to see where they come from...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u27	I do not agree with all aspects of the policy pursued there, but I agree with the inspiration. Fortunately, my friends from Podemos, who are participating in the government being formed in Spain, will soon allow for an increase in the minimum wage and other social benefits, of which you will soon see, Mr Minister, that they will trigger a sudden resumption of the activity of Spain, currently on the brink of agony. You, no, you're doing the opposite. And you argue that it is because there are trade tensions between China and the United States of America. I do not deny the existence of these tensions, but they are the symbol of the failure of a certain theory, which, since the Giscard years, has dominated the right-wing thinking of all governments. This is the theory that free trade and the expansion of trade in the global arena would allow each national producer to escape the limits and constraints of the domestic market. What did you do? Simply subjecting the entire economy to dependence on the new international market. As a result, public budgets are often no longer in a position to play the countercyclical role that it was once possible to obtain from them and which was the main characteristic of the French economy – its budgets, its social system were a damper for countercyclical policies. You go along with the depressive cycle, except when people go down the street to get social benefits that then benefit the productive economy. This flight forward on your part, I find it once again in this draft budget, I repeat. Abolition of the housing tax for the richest 20% who, until now, were not entitled to it: 8 billion euros to be offset by the State – because any gift made on the one hand must be compensated by the State budget, either by payments to local authorities or by the reduction of public services. Whenever you reduce the public service, you think that the private service will take over; But that is not the case. And even when it is, it costs more than the public service, for reasons that everyone knows, simple to understand: the public service does not pay shareholders, while any private service has an additional burden in its budget, namely the service it renders to the shareholder. Reduction in corporate tax: €2.5 billion less in state funds. Reduction in income tax: €5 billion to be offset. Finally, let us add that, from one generation to the next, we see you moving forward. This time, income tax, the only tax that is roughly fair compared to the unfair tax of VAT – value added tax – will weigh 2.5 times less in revenue than the latter. Soon the day you propose to remove the income tax to return to the situation of the beginning of the previous century, saying that after all, indirect tax is much more effective – it is true that it can only report more if, at the same time, you lower the other... In total, your gifts of all kinds amount to 15.5 billion euros, to which you have added, in the PACTE law – on business growth and transformation – a measure that has not yet produced its effects: pensions paid by private bodies will benefit from a 70% income tax reduction. This is going to cost us EUR 1 billion. The total thus amounts to 16.5 billion euros, to be borne by all taxpayers, either that they will pay tax or that they will suffer from the reduction of public services. Moreover, if your pension reform were to come into force, given what you have given to the highest incomes, those that exceed EUR 120,000 per year, 7 billion of contributions will not be paid, of which 4 billion will not be paid by the companies, you say – in reality, the shareholders. Is it clear that, in the pension reform project, 4 billion euros less employer contributions are planned, almost one and a half times the gift you have already given them with the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth? No one's talking about it? I'm doing it. So, 1 billion plus 7 billion: we will have 8 billion euros less in the state coffers. If we add the 15.5 billion mentioned above and the 8 billion I have just mentioned, we have 23.5 billion euros to compensate for. [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] I hope that we will succeed in preventing you from making your pension reform, unhealthy, bad for the country's economy. The High Commissioner has already left; You could take the rest of the reform with him. So we could have a more reasonable discussion than the one you have so badly engaged. Here is the cumulative cost of three years of your presence in power: removing the ISF, 10 billion euros; flat tax on capital income, 5 billion; decrease in corporate tax, $15 billion; removal of the housing tax for the richest 20%, 8 billion; lower income tax, $5 billion. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, 43 billion euros have been taken from all French to be given to only a few. This budget again provides for a reform of the APLs, personalized housing subsidies: 600,000 more people will not affect any of them. As last year, these allocations will certainly be revalued, but at a lower rate than inflation – we must do so. In all, it is 2 billion euros less in the pockets of the French without fortune. But the most important thing, in my opinion as a republican and a friend of the idea, is that state intervention is the only one that is worth it, including in the economy. I once told you that I was a collectivist. Well, yes, I am! I believe that the economy only makes sense underpinned by rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u28	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u29	On this point, you might agree with me because total market freedom makes no sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u30	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u31	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, if there are rules, they must be applied; And, if we want them to be, there must be people to enforce them. You imagine hiring enough I don't know how many policemen to keep order on the streets – at least what you call order. On the other hand, when it comes to controlling capital, when it comes to running after fraudsters, there is no one left!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u32	What about the policy of combating tax fraud?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u33	Yes: 1600 fewer posts for the Ministry of Economy and Finance – I would have kept them so that we could run to get the money we are owed, 80 billion euros that are stolen from us every year! But also 1000 fewer posts for the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. In other words, regarding the two great evils that afflict our society, you do not change a method to stop climate disruption, and instead of tightening their screws, you facilitate the work of the social parasites who engage in the looting that we know, who waste money without ever having enough. That is why, once again, we will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u34	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor in the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u35	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement remains of course faithful to the policy pursued by the Government and welcomes the policy of combating tax fraud launched last autumn, led by Minister Darmanin, which has begun to bear fruit. We will therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u36	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u37	The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of President Mélenchon's motion of rejection. Economic life is punctuated by cycles, and it is important to support investment. However, we note that French growth has fallen, you do not mind, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, from 2.4% in 2017 to less than 1.3% two years later – and one point less GDP is 25 billion euros. Thus, when economic activity is not supported, especially when it is needed, the economic recovery decelerates, which will, of course, not at the end of the year or perhaps during the first half of 2020, but a few months later, lead to a decline in job creation and probably an increase in unemployment. On this point, we agree with President Mélenchon. Then, all the tax cuts you have made have benefited some – suppression of the ISF – to the detriment of others – without revalorisation of the APLs. We are not going to repeat the usual debate, but the most concentrated on some and the least on others. Those who benefit the most and those who suffer the least are spread over specific territories: the rural territories are the big losers of your tax reforms. You can make a sign of denial, minister, but just take a card from the INSEE and overlay it with a paper-calk, and you will see that the most are concentrated in some places and the least at others. You will see that your policy exacerbates the territorial divide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u38	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u39	The IUD Group, Action and Independents will vote against the motion for rejection because it would be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u40	That's tricky...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u41	We have the right to have disagreements but it is important to be able to discuss the text and not to plunge the country into a greater disorder than the current disorder. You have to be reasonable and get around the table right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u42	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u43	We could discuss many of the provisions of the finance bill, be it the overall balance, the fundamental choices that are made, but also the distance from the forecast trajectory. We may regret the lack of a strong impetus for the energy transition. We could discuss the advisability of the change in local taxation, which Members of the Liberties and Territories Group do not understand very much. We can conduct these debates both in committee and in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u44	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u45	The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this motion because, as President Mélenchon has explained very well, it denounces the unjust and ineffective budgetary logic that has been at work for two years or more. Its unjust character provokes the various manifestations and mobilizations that we are witnessing. As for its inefficient economic side, I will have the pleasure of demonstrating this to you in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u46	All right, Mrs. Rubin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u47	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u48	Despite the widening gap between your politics and our fellow citizens, you persist in your deadly policies for the little people in order to serve as soup for the wealthy. You reduce the taxes of the wealthiest to reduce public spending, which leads to a reduction in social policies and to a loss of resources to meet the environmental challenge we face. The result has not been delayed: the number of poor has increased by 400,000 last year. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore not be reasonable and will vote in favour of this motion to reject this policy in favour of the richest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u49	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u50	The La République on the move will obviously vote against this motion for rejection, for one reason of form and another of substance. On the form, even if it is a parliamentary procedure, an adoption of your motion would have a rather baroque consequence, Mr.President Mélenchon: we would have to discuss, in final reading, the text of the Senate, which is even more in line with the so-called "neoliberal" logic that you denounce. In substance, you say that there is only the policy of demand that is worth it. Do we make a policy of supply or demand? I'll let you judge. What is certain is that our fiscal policy tends to lower the tax burden on households, and we are proud of it, particularly through the income tax that we are making more progressive: by lowering the rate of entry from 14 to 11 per cent, we are allowing this fine tax – which you have rented – to be more redistributive. We are also, of course, reducing the tax burden on businesses, which are still the most taxed in Europe. To you, who are calling for a demand policy, this budget can give some satisfaction because it protects our fellow citizens more, in particular through an increase in regal expenditure and the budgets devoted to national education and the ecological transition, that is to say, to all the areas considered a priority by our fellow citizens, and we are proud of that. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have another reason not to vote in favour of the motion to reject beforehand: we keep the public finance trajectory that we announced. Because they are important, I will repeat what Bruno Le Maire has just said: despite a likely decline in growth, we are maintaining our public deficit target at 3.1%. This is proof that we can give more money to our citizens and also to our companies to create jobs, while protecting the French better and remaining serious on the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u51	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u52	The Republican Group will not vote in favour of this motion for two reasons. The first is in form: at second reading of the finance bill, it seems to me that it would make no sense to adopt a motion to reject, because we are going to have to pass a budget on January 1, 2020 – which does not mean that we will vote in favour. The second reason is fundamental. We also have many points of disagreement about this budget, and I am thinking in particular of Article 5 and the removal of the housing tax. The members of the Government keep telling us that this measure gives the French taxpayers purchasing power back. Who are we laughing at? All those who did not pay the housing tax do not have 1 euro of additional purchasing power. However, we have a great deal of fundamental divergence with you, Mr.President Mélenchon: we are not in favour of a policy of demand recovery because we do not believe in it. This is our divergence, even if we can have common positions. The fact that we are not voting in favour of the motion to reject it before, I would point out, is not, above all, a blank vote given to the Government: it does not mean that we are in favour of the finance bill for 2020, which is absolutely unbalanced and dangerously degrades public finances, as President Eric Woerth said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u54	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u55	I would like to reply to a few comments and first of all to you, Mr President of the Finance Committee: the malus imposed on vehicles emitting more than 172 grams of CO per kilometre does not concern any car produced in France, not even the Alpine Renault, built in Dieppe, in my region. Unless you drive in very powerful cars of the Maserati, Porsche, Aston Martin or Lamborghini style – which can be your choice, perfectly respectable...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u56	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] He has ways we don't have!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u57	And 3008!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u58	With a 3008, you will not have to pay any super-malus, the one that is applied beyond 173 grams of CO emissions per kilometre. If you find a 3008 that emits 173 grams of CO per kilometre, bring it to me! This is a measure of justice: when you choose a model at your Peugeot or Renault dealership, the malus will increase depending on the CO emissions, and I do not see why it would be capped at 173 grams for the largest cylinders. [[Smile]] Mr Mélenchon, I agreed with you for five seconds of your speech – it's not bad already and it deserves to be noted – :...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u59	And applauded!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u60	... when you said the economy had to be at the service of people, not the other way around. Indeed, the economy is at the service of a society project. Ours is very simple: to allow everyone to find a well-paying job. If there is to be a job for all in French society, we must improve our offer and the quality of our products, in order to succeed in selling them better in the growing markets, thus creating wealth in our country. On the other hand, as I have often told you, I do not believe in the theory of runoff of wealth for a second, and that is by no means what we are doing. We are working to create activity and employment in our country. You praise public spending and say that their continued growth will create more and more activities. We tried! We cannot say that France has not tried since it has had the highest level of public expenditure of all the developed countries on the planet! We saw the result: mass unemployment, massive indebtedness and impoverishment of the territories. We propose to try something else: to improve the quality of French production and the integration of technologies, design, French know-how in our products, so that the offer gains in quality and exports better! You will tell me that you do not believe in the international market, that we must break with this dependence. Go tell the manufacturers of luxury goods that produce in France and export. Go tell the French exporters of cars and engines. Go tell the French wine growers who export their production massively. What will they live from if they no longer export their wine? Go tell the pig producers in Brittany. Why did the price of the kilogram of pig exceed 2 euros, when it was taped 1.10 or 1.20 euros for years? Because there was a swine crisis in China and this country had to import an additional 150000 tons of pigs. Suddenly, the price per kilogram of pork rose from 1.20 or 1.30 euros to almost 2 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u61	At 1.70 Euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u62	This increase is, and I welcome it, the success of pig producers in Brittany and elsewhere. It is the foreign markets that draw prices upwards, allowing us to produce more and better in our country, so to have prosperity in our territories, which I am sure you are happy about. Finally, I would like to make a few clarifications because, for the quality of our discussions, it is important that we discuss accurate data, regardless of our disagreements. As far as pensions are concerned, we propose the same contribution of up to EUR 120000 in annual income and, beyond this amount, the payment of a contribution of 2.8% which will not offer any additional pension rights to the contributor but will be used to finance the most modest pensions, in the interests of solidarity and justice. You should be glad: it may not be collectivist but it is generous; For my part, I like generosity but not collectivism. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As for Spain, do not worry about this great nation. Contrary to what you claim, it is not in the middle of a crisis: its growth rate was 2.4% in 2018 and 2019, one of the highest levels in the euro area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u63	[[Smile]] It took a hair!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u64	More like a tuft!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u65	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Noël Barrot spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u66	We are looking at the finance bill for 2020 again, in a context of which we must highlight three main points: a social dialogue that initiates a profound and necessary reform of our pension system; low rates that weaken our savings system; international threats to global growth. As the opposite winds blow hard, our responsibility is to ensure the soundness of our public accounts for the year 2020 while guaranteeing the tax justice that we owe to the French. This concern for tax justice is accompanied by a desire to support the economy: even those who oppose the draft budget have pointed out that considerable efforts have been made to reduce taxes for the middle classes. These efforts have had their effect: if France's growth forecasts are so high, it is partly due to the policy led by the Government. As far as inequalities are concerned, we can only oppose the comments made by our colleague Valérie Rabault: as the studies of various institutes show, efforts in the area of housing tax and income tax are concentrated on the middle classes, who had, it is true, been the major losers of tax policies in recent decades. Thanks to this budget and those of previous years, the middle classes regain some air, which is very welcome. The members of the MODEM Group welcome the progress made at first reading, as this text is a budgetary translation of two priorities dear to them: fiscal and social justice; the fight against climate change and the loss of biodiversity. Measures to promote more tax and social justice include the historic cuts in income tax and housing tax, which bring fresh air to the middle classes asphyxiated by decades of tax battling. Let us mention the excellent measures, dear to our colleague Mohamed Laqhila, which aim to combat VAT fraud by making the platforms accountable and by creating a blacklist of non-cooperative platforms. One example is the removal of the family tax credit, originally proposed, which would have penalized families at the last kilometre and weakened the number of day-care places. Let us mention the amendment by our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei, which lowers the threshold of turnover which obliges French company managers to pay tax in France. These include Sarah El Haïry's amendments that raise the maximum threshold for operating income from lucrative activities that had not been reassessed since 2000. These are the doubling of the remittance capacity for small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of sponsorship. We have secured the status of solidarity land. We have also developed one of the provisions of the PACTE law that allows shareholders to better share the fruits of the company's growth with employees. By another amendment by Sarah El Haïry, we exempted from VAT the care provided by pharmacists. By an amendment by Jean-Pierre Cubertafon, we exempted truffle farmers from the compensatory allowance intended to feed the strategic forest and wood fund, to the tune of 3000 euros per hectare. In terms of ecological transition, our second priority, we welcome the exit from the exemption for non-road diesel. This welcome measure is also the result of a long consultation with the sectors concerned which should serve as an example: it is possible to build the ecological transition not against but with the enterprises. Among the compensation measures foreseen, the eligibility of the community network maintenance work for the VATF – the compensation fund for value added tax – was adopted by the Assembly through an amendment by Jean-Paul Mattei. In a new reading, we will present various amendments to strengthen, or at least support, these public policy objectives. Two amendments by Jean-Paul Mattei aim to improve, on the margins, the reform of rental values. We will propose the continuation of the income tax reduction for investment in the capital of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will also propose the reintroduction of the provision for a report to Parliament on the estate benefit of life insurance, deleted by the Senate. Our colleague Bruno Duvergé has tabled an amendment to encourage car manufacturers to propose dual-fuel vehicles. Finally, we will propose the completion of the security of the system of support for solidarity land organizations. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] We hope that the Government and the Assembly will kindly welcome these various proposals from the MODEM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u67	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u68	The new reading of the Finance Bill for 2020 is a first: the amended Senate text that we are now considering includes no less than 392 clauses! It is so voluminous that the chair of the Senate Finance Committee, Vincent Éblé, described it as "the largest text of the Senate since 1958." With such a number of items, the backbone of the PLF for 2020 becomes unreadable, if not invisible. There's something for every taste! In my view, this lack of readability is damaging. So, in an attempt to make it clearer, I propose that you go back to budgetary elements which, in essence, are the only ones to engrave in the marble the economic policy proposed by the Government. Let's start with the revenue side. Between 2017 and 2020, compulsory household levies increased by 33 billion euros from 582 billion to 615 billion. On its own, the increase in the CSG and CRDS – the widespread social contribution and the contribution to the repayment of social debt – amounts to 32 billion. For other taxes, increases and decreases are offset. The increases include an additional 17 billion VAT, as well as 6 billion environmental taxes, 3 billion tobacco taxes and 1 billion donation tax. In terms of reductions, social contributions for households are down by 15 billion, the housing tax by 10 billion and the ISF by just over 3 billion. In total, the redistribution of French households by the Government is massive. Some of our colleagues, particularly those in the MODEM Group, regrettably have the most concentrated on some of them and the least on others. This shows an almost perfect superimposition, which is hardly surprising, of the more in some departments and of the less in others. In other words, those who will benefit most from the abolition of the housing tax are also those who will benefit most from the reduction of the income tax and who will be the least penalized by the reform of the unemployment insurance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u70	Let us take the example of the drop in income tax: 22 million tax households will not benefit because they are not subject to this levy; Thus, by definition, they will not recover 1 euro of additional purchasing power. On the territory, the distribution is very heterogeneous. Thus, in Tarn-et-Garonne, two thirds of tax households are not liable for income tax – a monthly income of less than 1400 euros for a single person: two thirds of the inhabitants of my department will therefore not have an extra euro of purchasing power. By comparison, the situation is totally inverse in Neuilly-sur-Seine, where only three out of ten households do not pay income tax. And, in cross-checking the data, we realize that French people who will not benefit from any additional purchasing power as a result of the removal of the housing tax are also the same people who will not benefit from the drop in income tax. On the business side, compulsory levies increase by 29 billion between 2017 and 2020, and they all increase: corporate taxes rise by 11 billion; eco-taxes of nearly 3 billion; Social contributions are also increasing, due to the dynamics of the wage bill. As far as public expenditure is concerned, there are two ways of analysing their evolution: either by categories of actors – the State, operators, local authorities, social security – or by nature of expenditure – investment, interest, operation, social expenditure. I suggest that you take this second approach, which I think is more appropriate to have a global view of public spending. Since 2017, public investment as a percentage of GDP has been stable, only thanks to the increase in local government investment, which we all know is the result of the electoral cycle. Apart from this cycle effect, public investment has been falling for the last ten years: it has fallen from 4.2 to 3.3 per cent of GDP under your quinquennium, a decrease of almost 1 point of GDP, which is certainly not entirely attributable to you, but which is partly attributable to you. Some will say that 1 point of GDP is not much; It still amounts to EUR 25 billion. Others will say that the private has taken over, which is just as false; Indeed, in our country, public investment is not a substitute for private initiative, but a means of creating an offensive investment dynamic, which is essential for our economy. Social expenditure is also falling slightly as a percentage of GDP, as a result of the decline in personalized housing subsidies. Finally, operating expenditure is relatively stable, although slightly decreasing, and accounts for 18% of GDP. The item that falls the most is that of interest on the debt, for a reason that is foreign to you: the fall in interest rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u72	If I quote all these figures, Madam President, it is because the figures do not lie: they are always a reflection of a very tangible reality. Let me just say a final word about France's relationship with the European Commission. The latter pointed out "a significant risk of deviation from the budgetary effort required in 2020 and for the years 2019 and 2020 as a whole". For all these reasons, the Socialist and related group, in new reading, will not vote in favour of the finance bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u73	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u74	With more than 392 articles, the Finance Bill for 2020 as amended by the Senate became an obese text. In the midst of the many measures it proposes, therefore, the strong lines are sometimes lost. Yet they are clear and the French will see the concrete consequences: the tax burden will decrease for both households and businesses; The reduction in income tax by €5 billion and the abolition of the housing tax are measures in favour of purchasing power – it is not by chance that the Senate has confirmed them in principle. It is therefore a fairer budget, a budget for our citizens. Unfortunately, these various measures are, once again, financed by an additional government deficit and result in the absence of real savings. The most obvious example of this lack of effort is the level of our structural deficit, which will not return to 2.2% of GDP in 2020. It is regrettable that the sincerity that has characterized budgets since the beginning of the quinquennium is not accompanied by a greater sense of responsibility for reducing public spending, in order to prevent future generations from paying the price of our growing debt. However, let us try to make the end of the review of the Finance Bill for 2020 a useful exercise, which will allow us to deepen some of the choices made at first reading. It had left us with a bitter taste because of the many changes in appropriations, the cancellations in second deliberations and the adoption of last-minute amendments. The review of the text in new reading will also be useful to complement certain measures that are less visible than tax cuts, but just as concrete for our fellow citizens and our territories, such as the half-tax share of widows, an improved measure by the Senate, or the maintenance of the PTZ – zero-rate loan – in the new rural area, as of January 1, 2020 – is an important step forward, which our group had itself defended here. The new reading will also be useful to date on some debates that have not been exhausted: the future of tax arrangements attached to rural revitalisation zones or on the taxation of commercial activities, including the payment of TASCOM by so-called "pure players" storage warehouses, such as Amazon. Finally, it will be useful to clarify and raise questions that cross the country, sometimes in line with current events. For example, the one-year postponement of the new funding scheme for territorial communities by the Senate is, in our view, a call to take the time to refine the compensation scheme for communities from the removal of the housing tax. With regard to the phasing out of the reduced domestic consumption tax on energy products - ICTPE - for non-road diesel fuel, we welcome the agreement reached between the Government and representatives of public works companies, but it should not become a source of complexity for the agricultural sector. On the other hand, the application of over-amortization to the purchase of low- or low-polluting equipment in the building sector was already an important step taken by our assembly, in part at the initiative of my group. We are concerned about the current movement against the decrease in the reimbursement of the TICEP applicable to road freight transport. As this sector is already experiencing severe European competition, it is not necessary to add additional constraints. If the article were to be restored, we would have to at least smooth this deletion – we will propose it again. Finally, we welcome the senators' initiative in favour of the purchasing power of families: they have reduced the ceiling of the family quotient to a level that it had not known since 2014. This initiative should encourage us to relaunch our family policy, at least for future budgets. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As at first reading, the UDI, Action and Independents Group approves the draft finance law for 2020 in its fiscal part, but remains reserved on certain points, including the absence of a reduction in the structural deficit and the continued rise in the level of debt, which, in the event of a reversal of the economic situation, would seriously threaten our future. Our common objective must be an ever more legible, serious and fair budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u75	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u76	We understand that, for the Government, the purpose of the new reading is to re-establish the original text adopted by the Assembly at first reading. If our debates lead to this outcome, the majority of Members of the Freedom and Territory Group will have no choice but to confirm their vote on 19 November. On the merits, we note the irremediable distance from the trajectory set out in the law on public finance programming. The language elements of the Government have highlighted the weakness of the deficit since 2001, but, as we know, the reality is different. The 2017 targets – cut public spending by 3 points, debt by 5 and then 8 points, and the deficit by 2 points – are buried, probably due to social pressure. All these issues, in any case, deserve to be discussed. As for me, I would modestly like to dwell on the various contributions of the Senate, first of all on the construction of local taxation, dear to our group, you know. Our honourable senators preferred to postpone the reform of the housing tax, while revealing some flaws in the financial compensation scheme. We had, for our part, put our finger, at first reading, on certain harmful blurries. More generally, we reaffirm our opposition to this reform, which runs counter to a modern organization of local democracy, to which our fellow citizens and obviously local elected officials aspire. You have made the choice to dissociate fiscal autonomy from financial autonomy; We regret it. While the introduction of a budget bill specific to local and regional authorities, which would be examined annually by Parliament, seems buried, we are asking the question of putting the basket of tax resources of the local authorities down, but also of the state's financial assistance. This chambardment of local taxation has as its origin the progressive abolition of the housing tax, which will mainly benefit the middle and upper classes. What about this social justice that you claim to defend with the 5 billion reduction in income tax, when you know that less than one in two households pay that tax? I would like to say this again: on the merits, it seems to us that it is essential to carry out a thorough overhaul of the entire tax architecture. In the field of ecology, we support the vote by senators to extend the eligibility of landlords to ISCED and regret that an amendment by the rapporteur-general was adopted in committee to remove this advance. We also support the allocation of part of energy taxation to local and regional authorities, which is clearly in the right direction. Despite these advances in the Senate, efforts to promote the energy and environmental transition are not up to date. But, let us recall, the energy transition is, nolens volens, an inescapable imperative. When, for example, is a real investment plan to end our thermal colanders? The transformation of ISCED into a premium will certainly make it possible to better support the most modest households, but the envelope allocated will not be enough to achieve the renovation objectives. In this regard, we regret the rejection of the proposal for a law by our Socialist colleagues, which sought to change the brace in order to speed up the movement of renovations and which, despite some imperfections, had the merit of refocusing aid on the most efficient works and reducing the rest to the most precarious ones. I will conclude by welcoming several measures, including housing support, adopted in the Senate: the re-establishment of 5.5% VAT on the construction and rehabilitation of homes financed by a PLUS – social rental loan – and the APL accession, and the extension of the benefit of the PTZ in the relaxed areas. These measures are based on proposals that we have defended. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] As you will have understood, despite some satisfaction, we are convinced of the need to change the principles of the broad budgetary guidelines. France's fiscal situation calls for both the control of accumulated public deficits and the consideration of the country's huge social and economic needs. This is a formidable challenge, especially in a soft growth situation and in an uncertain global context. Large-scale projects remain open, in particular for greater social justice, for a genuine fiscal autonomy of the territories and, finally, for the ecological revolution required by the climate emergency. We will have to find a positive solution to all these problems, and the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u77	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u78	The policy should be to take care of our fellow citizens, Bruno Le Maire referred to it earlier. It is in this perspective that, together with the Minister of Action and Public Accounts – they both disappeared from the Chamber – he announced, two years ago, that the finance bill for 2018 was going to allow a revival of purchasing power, and here he was detailing what our compatriots were supposed to gain. Yet, for the past two years, the citizens have told us and told you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you do not take care of them. But the movement of yellow vests does not seem to have desiluted you, on the contrary: it is not only against your pension reform but, more generally, against your political orientations and your budgetary choices that the environmental and social movements we are currently experiencing are rising, and more and more. To take care of our compatriots is not to run the television sets to accuse the trade unions of blocking the country, for example: to take care of our compatriots is to consider their situation. However, for the third year in a row, you are presenting a project of finance in the colours of the tax reduction, while, in reality, you are in the process of being duplicated by the French. On the one hand, by reducing government revenues, you mechanically create a deficit that you also claim to be fighting. On the other hand, this measure aggravates the social inequalities which disfigure our country a little more each year: the middle and modest classes, who do not benefit from the tax cuts provided for in this budget, will be the first to suffer from the reductions in spending supposed to finance them. Perhaps the most glaring example is that of the APLs. The reform of their calculation method will cost the households who benefit from it EUR 1.2 billion, and 600,000 of them will not even be affected at all, even though they would have benefited from it according to the current calculation method. As last year, APLs will be almost frozen, saving an additional €850 million. In 2020, the Government achieved savings of more than $2 billion on the backs of the modest beneficiaries of this benefit, even though it was also the modest ones that would suffer from the decline in public services. This is a budget of blatant injustice, which makes a transfer from the most modest to the richest: businesses, wealthy individuals and the upper middle classes. Mr Secretary of State, do you not think that it would have been possible to find a more judicious response to the demand for tax justice that arises throughout the country? Moreover, this choice of upside-down redistribution is an economic nonsense. Even with further tax cuts, the Government expects growth to decline from 2019, from 1.4 per cent to 1.3 per cent, even as external demand increases. This will be 1 point of growth lost since you came to power. In addition, despite gifts to businesses, your government expects their investment growth to decline from 2020. You yourself admit that tax measures will in no way revive the consumption of the French or, as a result, the economy. Why? Simply because the upper and very rich classes, on which tax cuts are concentrated, will largely save the gains they have made. The modest classes, on the other hand, cannot afford to arbitrate between savings and consumption, so that redistribution for their benefit would not only have been fairer, but also more efficient from an economic point of view. There are other solutions. Thus, our counter-budget proposes to restore taxes on the most wealthy, to remove niches, especially the most anti-ecological ones, and to increase the VAT applicable to certain products. We calculated that this would allow us to recover 60 billion. That would be much more useful for our schools, our hospitals, our courts, our police, and to muscle our ministry of the environment, which you are on the contrary disheartening – not to mention the massive investment, intended to respond to the climate emergency, to which many economists, even the most liberal, invite us, simply because of the low rates. For all these reasons, repeated in committee and in the Chamber, and since you insist on an austere budgetary logic, we too insist on saying no to this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u79	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u80	The finance bill for 2020 is coming back to the Assembly for new reading. The Commission's preparatory work last Friday set the course: the main thrust of the Government's project should be confirmed. These broad lines, we had already highlighted them at first reading: under the guise of a communication focused on purchasing power, you continue to unblock the social state and to favour those who have already been the great winners of the first part of the mandate. It is true that the social context has shaken you since the onset of the yellow vest crisis a year ago. It had become time to operate a pirouette, to pretend to have changed course. From then on, the big announcements fell. First, the continuation of the abolition of the housing tax. The PLF thus provides for its extension to all households by 2021. According to you, this represents 8 billion euros of additional purchasing power. But should we recall, as has already been done, that these 8 billion will benefit the 20 per cent of the most affluent households? Secondly, the reduction in income tax for the second tranche, i.e. a total of EUR 5 billion less tax for those you call modest households. But should we remember that 50% of households do not pay income tax? How can one justify that a single person earning €6500 now pays less tax? In this large cloud of smoke, it is also difficult to understand to what extent the reduction in corporate taxes, to 28% in 2020 and to 26.5% in 2021, will promote purchasing power. It will first favour large companies, which you have already pampered by reducing employers' contributions. In fact, behind the argument of purchasing power, which you never cease to display, your ideology appears: it takes less taxes, therefore less resources for the state, in order to be able to then gnaw in spending. No one will be wrong: in parallel with your so-called social measures, there is no question of making use of the most affluent; It's the little ones who'll pay for it. They'll pay when you get a little bit more of the APLs. They will pay because of the fall in unemployment benefits. They will also pay when communities, for lack of compensation for the proceeds of the housing tax, will have to reduce community utilities. More generally, they will pay when social security benefits fall because, for the first time since 1994, your government will not compensate for exemptions from social security contributions. Faithful to your values, you continue to destroy the pockets of solidarity that make our country strong in favour of increased individualism. You are gradually building a tax-free society, which no longer allows the state to act effectively and to meet the major challenges it faces, such as the pension system, in which you are trapped. The most obvious evidence of this lack of ambition is the environmental measures of the Finance Bill. The envelope of the energy transition tax credit, which has become an ecological premium, has been reduced from 900 million to 800 million euros, compared to 1.6 billion in 2017. To meet our climate ambitions, nearly 500,000 homes would have to be renovated annually. How can such a goal be achieved when last year, with 900 million euros, only 250,000 have been renovated? Under these conditions, it will be impossible for you to meet our country's climate commitments, usually so quick for you to meet budgetary commitments. In this mist of imposture, the GDR group will endeavour, as usual, to chart another path, more just and more supportive. We will therefore propose, for the umpteenth time, a reform that improves the progressivity of income tax, so that the reduction you have agreed to is not paid by the most modest. We will also oppose the removal of the housing tax for the 20 per cent of the most affluent households, as this measure will in a cascade damage the financial sustainability of local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u82	I'm finishing, Madam President. By generally lowering taxes, especially those of the most affluent, you tie your hands and then be able to justify the detanglement of the social state and your climate inaction. On the contrary, during this second reading, we will be keen to propose a project that will give the State all the means it needs to take to meet the social and environmental challenges it faces. Of course, we will not vote in favour of this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u83	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u84	The Finance Bill for 2020, which we are starting to read again, is a text that the majority wants to be ambitious, fair and balanced. We have been able to find balance at first reading, and I hope we will find balance at the end of this debate by restoring the serious budget of the project, in accordance with a requirement characteristic of our majority. It is also a matter of complying with a supply policy in the name of dual necessity: attractiveness and competitiveness. Attractiveness, we saw to it as early as 2018 by reforming the taxation of capital. The initial results of the Reform Monitoring Committee are encouraging; its work will continue for three or four years. I note, by the way, that senators, too, have carried out, in parallel, evaluation work, from which they have already drawn conclusions. The right-wing senators, on the other hand, want to make changes to the IFI without calling into question the removal of the ISF, while the left-wing senators simply want the ISF to be restored. This work is not serious because all experts agree that such an evaluation must be carried out over a long period of time. Yes, I can say: the attractiveness returns with the confidence of investors. This trust works on two legs: simplification and readability. We must now establish its stability, which is what we are working on in this PLF. Competitiveness, including through the choice of reducing corporate taxes and reducing their burdens, enables companies to face global competition and innovation challenges. It is no longer possible in the 21st century to make our businesses live as if time had been frozen in the 20th century. The fall in labour costs is complemented by other measures to make it better remunerated: the 5 billion reduction in income tax, which affects 95% of households, the increase in activity premium or the challenge of working overtime. I want to say again here: our majority supports this policy of economic transformation led by the Government. While some would like to take advantage of the context of low rates, see negatives, to further indebt the state and replicate the mistakes of the past, we prefer to support an offensive fiscal policy that encourages investment while controlling public spending. Transformation also involves major advances in the digitization of operations. This is the reason for the levy at source, which allowed more than 98% of the tax to be recovered. I have no doubt that the contemporaneity of personalized housing subsidies, scheduled for 2020, is equally successful. This budget is a budget of priority: the Government makes the choice to increase the budget of the Regalian portfolios in order to meet the priority expectations of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u86	For example, with regard to security, we note an increase of EUR 1.7 billion in the appropriations allocated to the armies, the largest since the end of the Cold War, to enable them to continue to meet the new challenges they face so bravely, as we are reminded by recent events. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior is also increasing by EUR 800 million. To reject it, as the Senate has done, is to reject the creation of 2,500 police and gendarmes, and the very concrete advances in pay and cycle of work related to wage negotiations. The justice budget is receiving an increase of €200 million, an increase that is also rejected by senators, who thus give up legal aid reform. The ecological budget has also been rejected by the Senate, while the planned envelope increases by 800 million euros to accompany the energy renewal but also the ecological transition. I also regret that honourable senators have taken care to make provision for additional expenses without raising the issue of their funding. To believe that this becomes commonplace among the Republicans. The cove is obviously easy, but the art of proposing is more difficult... In conclusion, our majority repeats its confidence in this finance bill, which we are discussing here for the second time. In the current social context, this text is fully in line with the new social pact that we are proposing to the French, with a sincerity that goes far beyond budgetary sincerity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, taxes are falling for everyone and tax revenues are increasing! Yes, unemployment is decreasing and our businesses are again creating jobs! Yes, our companies are more competitive and attractive! These are the signs of an economic situation that is improving. It is not a question of making shareholders happy, but of meeting the needs of the French and of moving towards an economy that is truly at their service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u87	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u88	As we prepare to re-examine the Finance Bill for 2020, I regret once again the dogmatism of this majority that has planned to reverse almost all of the Senate's progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u89	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u90	Where is respect for parliamentary work when all the work of senators is completely detricted? Bicameralism is a strength of our Constitution, which you completely deny. In this new world, decidedly worse than the old, nothing must exceed. Oppositions were muzzled and Parliament was reduced to simply serving as a recording chamber, to the detriment of the interests of France and the French. The Republicans Group will therefore, often in vain, try to defend the contributions of the Senate, which has sought on many subjects to hold a position of balance and to correct the main injustices of your tax policy. Allow me to take stock of current public finances and an overview of what the Government has set aside for 2020. Since 2017, France's government deficit has increased by 25 billion euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u92	... when it was a question of reducing it; The Government completely renounces, Mr. Secretary of State, its objective of returning to the balance of public finances in 2022, and for more than half its objective of reducing the deficit over the five-year period. France's debt increased by 190 billion euros. I said 190 billion euros: it's astronomical!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u93	That's probably what we call good management!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u94	It was 500 billion under Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u95	You are justifying debt slipping by using negative rates, but I have already said this: it only postpones the problem on the backs of future generations. Such a lack of courage is guilty. Public expenditure has increased by 70 billion euros: you demonstrate your total inability to control it. Deficit, debt, expenditure: you seem to be satisfied with this budget in 3D, which is however anything but beneficial for France and for the French. What you are proposing for 2020 is far from being able to calm the social anger that is rumbling in our country. Indeed, you are announcing a deficit that will be twice as high as that of the euro area and the worst in Europe behind Italy, as well as the highest level of public expenditure in Europe: where are the improvements? You're forced to lower taxes, but you're financing this by digging up the debt a little bit more. And these tax cuts, moreover, are only a glamour since both income and corporate taxes will bring in nearly 20 billion euros more to the state in 2020 than in 2019: 20 billion euros more from households and businesses. And then you sub-index retirement pensions, LPOAs, LPOAs – the adult disability allowance –, family allowances and the activity premium, which will be increased by only 0.3% in 2020 when inflation is expected to reach 1%. So you don't seem to have heard the demands of our fellow citizens. You restrict the energy transition tax credit as you present the fight against global warming and the fight against thermal colanders as one of your priorities! You penalise the construction sector by abolishing the partial tax exemption on non-road diesel, while this sector contributes to the improvement of unemployment figures in France. I welcome, however, the adoption of certain social justice measures, such as the maintenance of the zero-rate loan scheme in new housing throughout the territory, or the restoration of the additional half-share for veterans' widows, which is strong in the mobilization of the opposition. I would also like to welcome several advances that Members of the Republican Group wanted to introduce into the PLF and that our colleagues in the Senate have been able to correctly resume. I am thinking in particular of maintaining and extending ISCED; measures relating to the scale and reductions of the IFI, including a proposal to index its scale; the exemption of transfer rights free of charge for agricultural holdings transmitted within the family; provisions for better regulation of the AME – state medical aid. However, as I said in the preamble, I regret that many of the provisions adopted by the Senate are the subject of deletion amendments by the rapporteur-general. How, for example, do you understand that your majority refuses to exempt the lottery from contributions and levies from the gross proceeds of the games? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are launching the budget debate in a public session, knowing in advance the fate that will be reserved for most of the measures that we are defending in a new reading. However, we will still try to convince you to listen to the voices of the territories: I am thinking in particular of Article 16, which provides for the gradual abolition of the reduced domestic fuel tax rate under conditions of employment, which will have an impact on the world of public works and construction. I wish we could be heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u96	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u97	I now call the clauses of the 2020 Finance Bill in the text passed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u98	I have before me two amendments, Nos 177 and 1081, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u99	It is not intended to correct the nominal deficit but to revise the forecast of the structural balance. It is based on the European Commission's estimates, which, I would remind you, recalculates the structural deficit for each of the 28 Member States on the basis of the potential growth forecast. It therefore considers that France's figure is much higher than that indicated by the Government in the introductory article. The European Commission wrote a month ago to Mr Le Maire asking him about the figures for 2019 and 2020. I have asked several times in this House what is happening, and I have not been answered. It will probably be on the basis of the recalculated figures that our country will be judged by the European Commission. The budget submitted by France must therefore be consistent with the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u100	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1081.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u101	The aim is to re-establish the introductory article in its version adopted by the National Assembly at first reading since the Senate rejected the appropriations for five missions, which would have a strong impact on the introductory article and thus on the balance of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u102	The rapporteur-general has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u103	I am against Mrs Rabault's amendment and in favour of that of the Government. Mrs. Rabault, the type of debate you are raising may be in the context of the next spring's review of the Public Finance Programming Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u104	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Public Affairs and Public Accounts, to give the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u105	We are considering the first part of the Finance Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u106	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 998.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u107	Here we propose an 11- tranche income tax scale, which is truly progressive and offers a stable return to public finances while allowing a tax reduction which, by targeting only modest and medium-sized households, i.e. up to a monthly income of EUR 3900 net for a single person, will be more important for these categories than the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u108	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u109	We have already had this debate at first reading, Mr Dufrègne. I told you then, and it is still valid, that our country already has the most redistributive system in the world and that your measure would increase the taxation of several categories of taxpayers. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u111	For the same reasons as at first reading, the opinion remains unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u112	Mr Vigier's amendment No 293 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u113	Amendment No 175 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u114	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 999.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u115	Still true to the same logic, our group here proposes to introduce a new 48% marginal income tax band on the income portion above EUR 315612. This rate respects the constitutional framework and would allow an additional return of 300 million euros according to the estimates provided by the simulation software LexImpact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u117	Thank you, Mr Dufrègne, for pointing out that LexImpact could lead to the implosion of the number of amendments... The opinion remains unfavourable for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u118	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1000.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u119	This is once again the famous marginal part of income tax. We would very symbolically like to raise its rate from 45 per cent to 45.5 per cent. It would thus be clear whether the Government and the majority were able to agree to demand a very small effort from those who had a great deal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u120	I have before me three amendments, Nos 272, 733 and 176, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 272.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u121	Written by our colleague Fabrice Brun, it aims to reaffirm the group's commitment to the family quotient, returning to the ceiling amounts prior to the 2013 Finance Act, which was promulgated in December 2012. As the birth rate continues to decline – 50,000 fewer births in 2017 – we believe it is very important to support families and family policy in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u123	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 733.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u124	It aims to return to the drafting of article 2 as adopted by the National Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u125	Amendment No 176 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u126	The committee supports the committee's amendment and opposes the other two.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u128	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u129	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u130	Even if the text is being re-read, I would like the Government to explain why it refuses the amendment on the family quotient tabled by the Republican Group. You are demonstrating, Mr Secretary of State, complete continuity in your action, since in 2013 you voted, as a Socialist Member of Parliament, for this challenge to family policy. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] At a time when the nation is debating the pension system, it is still quite paradoxical to maintain provisions in the finance bill that are so unfavourable to families and to any policy of support for the birth. For us, members of the Republican Group, it is important to acknowledge our commitment to the policy of supporting the birth, which was so badly affected by François Hollande and then by Emmanuel Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u131	Very good answer from the minister, who did not take the floor...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u132	Yes, that's very eloquent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u133	At least I made it clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u134	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1169, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u135	This is an amendment to coordinate with the provisions of the Act on Engagement and Proximity, adopted following an agreement in the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u136	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 734, which deletes Rule 2a A.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u137	It is a question of deleting the article adopted by the Senate which tends to repeal the annual ceiling of 5000 euros applied to the exemption from income tax on the additional working time of hospital medical professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u138	Amendment No 1086 by Mr Joël Giraud is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u139	Amendment No 735 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u140	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 736, which deletes Rule 2e A.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u141	The aim is to delete the article introduced by the Senate to restore the mechanism already proposed by amendment last year and which the National Assembly had amended so that it could effectively apply. We propose to remain with the existing provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u142	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 737 and 179, to delete Article 2e B. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 737.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u143	It is intended to remove the inflation indexation article from the IFI schedule adopted in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u144	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 179.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u145	It also tends to eliminate the revalorisation of the IFI scale based on inflation. At a time when certain benefits are unindexed, it would indeed be curious to index this scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u146	What is the Government's opinion on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u147	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u148	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u149	[[Smile]] You're for indexing the IFI scale, is that right, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u150	I am in favour of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u151	I am in favour of the clause introduced by the Senate. The latter was right to want to index the IFI's scale to inflation, with other scale taxes themselves being indexed. We should therefore retain this indexation, especially since in reality the evolution of the price of real estate is often much more marked than that of inflation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u152	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 738 and 180, to delete Article 2e C. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 738.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u153	It is intended to delete an article inserted by the Senate that introduces a partial exemption from the IFI for non-residents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u154	Amendment No 180 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u155	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 739 and 184, to delete Article 2e D. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 739.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u156	It is about deleting an article introduced by the Senate that leads to a reduction in the IFI's base. Administrative flexibilities can already be applied to assess the operational nature of a company's business.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u157	Amendment No 184 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u158	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 740, which deletes Rule 2e E.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u159	It aims to delete an article introduced by the Senate which, by extending its scope to all rural areas, reproduces an amendment by Gilles Carrez on historical monuments in rural areas, adopted in the Finance Committee of the National Assembly at first reading and then beaten in session. For the sake of consistency with the vote at first reading, I propose that this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u160	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u161	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u162	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u163	For my part, I am in favour of the mechanism voted by the Senate: it seems to me natural to exempt 75% of the value of buildings classified or listed as historic monuments, as long as they are visitable and constitute a rural heritage. The exploitation of these monuments contributes to the development of rural life and results in very high costs for their owners. The proposed exemption therefore seems to me to be in line with the approach you have taken in creating the heritage lottery: it follows the same logic. I don't understand why you object.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u164	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u165	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u166	I agree with the arguments put forward by President Woerth. It seems to me that when the owner of a castle classified as a historical monument undertakes to open it to the public and thereby creates activity in territories which are sometimes without it, one could consider, in order to encourage this type of investment, that the land concerned belongs to the category of working tools and therefore deserves to be exempted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u167	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 741, which deletes Rule 2e F.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u168	It's about deleting an article introduced by the Senate to reduce the IFI's base.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u169	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 742, which deletes Rule 2e G.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u170	Again, it is a matter of deleting an article introduced by the Senate, leading to a reduction in the amount of the IFI.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u171	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 743, which deletes Rule 2eH.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u172	It pursues the same aim as the previous amendment, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u173	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 744, which deletes Rule 2e I.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u174	It is intended to delete an article adopted by the Senate which reintroduces allowances for holding periods in the calculation of capital gains on securities. We have already eased taxation with the introduction of the PFU – a single flat-rate levy – which seems sufficient to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u175	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 745, which deletes Rule 2e J.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u176	This is again to delete an article adopted by the Senate: the article that was intended to exclude the application of the UFP for the portion of dividends exceeding 10% of the capital invested.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u177	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 181, which deletes Rule 2e K.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u178	It is intended to delete the article introduced by the Senate to ease the conditions for the taxation of certain earnings and distributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u180	I am against the amendment and in favour of the clause adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u181	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1153.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u182	It is intended to delete the paragraph providing for the pledge, the latter having been lifted when the provision was adopted in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u183	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1149.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u184	The aim is to abolish the measure adopted in the Senate, which is to apply the preferential rate of 7.5% valid for life insurance contracts of more than eight years – including those with stocks of more than EUR 150000 – to the product attached to premiums represented by one or more units of account consisting of at least 70% of securities invested in products contributing to the financing of the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u185	Section 2 septies was deleted by the Senate. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 746, which is intended to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u186	It aims at re-establishing the system, adopted by the National Assembly and abolished by the Senate, which secures the calculation of the surplus value of acquisition of the purchase orders of shares of business creators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u187	Amendment No 747 of the committee is for drafting clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u188	I have before me two amendments, Nos 514 and 748, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 514.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u189	It aims to repeal the abolition of the release of withholding tax and the recasting of the calculation of the income tax of French non-residents as set out in the 2019 Finance Act. The subject is certainly very technical, but it is concrete, vital and, above all, very distressing for hundreds of thousands of citizens living outside France. Under the pretext of aligning the non-resident regime with that of the French residents, the new system introduces, to sum up, an implausible tax injustice. I won't go into the details you know. The new system provides for a 20% tax rate to be applied to non-residents from the first euro as of 1 January 2020. This means, in concrete terms, that some households will see their taxation multiplied by two, by three, or even by ten! Thus, for an employee earning 20,000 euros taxable, the default rate will pass, listen carefully, from 2 to 20%! The first affected will of course be those belonging to the most disadvantaged, the most modest strata. With this new scale, tens of thousands of non-residents will, in fact, become creditors of the state, pending a possible refund of the tax overpayment. The others will have to justify their global incomes with all the difficulties that we are experiencing. In terms of simplification, we have seen better! On the ground, there is a great deal of concern. We, parliamentarians representing the French abroad, have been suffering from grievances for months. We need to defuse this tax bomb as a matter of urgency. The moratorium on first reading in the National Assembly only delayed the problem without correcting the substantive defects. Similarly, the drafting of the Senate's Rule 2g, which extends the moratorium until 2023 and reduces the flat rates from 20% and 30% respectively to 14.4% and 20%, marks progress without a satisfactory response. The amendment therefore tends to go back to the previous situation, pending a comprehensive reform of the non-residents' IRPP for a fairer tax for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u190	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 748 and give the committee's opinion on Amendment No. 514.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u191	Amendment No. 748 seeks to delete an addition from the Senate which adopted an amendment by the Finance Committee which received an unfavourable opinion from the Government and aimed at eliminating the increase in the minimum tax rate. This question is different from the previous one. With regard to Amendment No 514, at first reading we decided on a moratorium on the reform of taxation of non-residents and on the submission to Parliament of a report on the subject. As this report is due before the summer and allows us to be informed, I propose that the amendment be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u192	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u193	Favourable to that of the Committee on Finance and against Amendment No 514. Mr Habib, I would add to what the rapporteur has just said that, if your amendment were adopted, it would not result in a return to the situation prior to the reform adopted in the Finance Act for 2019, but in the abolition of the tax on the scale for non-residents with the application of the minimum rates and option for the medium rate scheme. Unfavorable opinion, therefore, for the same reason as the rapporteur and for this additional reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u194	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u195	If I were certain that the situation would change, I would withdraw the amendment, but it is not quite clear, Mr rapporteur. So I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u196	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 749.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u197	He tends to delete an addition from the Senate from June 1 to May 1 the date of submission of the report I have just referred to. The important thing is that Parliament can be informed about the 2021 Finance Bill. It is therefore proposed to set that date again as 1 June 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u198	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 750.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u199	It tends to delete the Senate's additions to the content of the report on taxation of non-residents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u200	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 751.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u201	It seeks to delete Article 2h(A) inserted by the Senate, concerning the deductibility of compensatory benefits paid by non-residents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u202	Article 2 noies has been deleted by the Senate. Amendment No 386 by Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, seeking to restore it, is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u203	This amendment on the IR-SME – the reduction of tax on subscriptions in cash to the capital of unlisted small and medium-sized enterprises – has already been withdrawn in committee, so I would again like to ask for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u205	Same opinion. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u206	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 752.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u207	It tends to delete Article 2 decies inserted by the Senate, which brings the reduction on the principal residence of the deceased to 30%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u208	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 753 and 183, to delete Article 2 undecies. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 753.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u209	It aims to remove an article introduced by the Senate which reduces the tax reporting period for donations from 15 to 10 years for the liquidation of transfer rights free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u210	Amendment No 183 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u211	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u212	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u213	The drafting of the Senate must be retained. The reduction in the time limit proposed by the Commission is in line with what Mr Gérald Darmanin himself has defended. Donation processes need to be speeded up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u214	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u215	We have already had this debate at first reading, where you tabled the same amendments. The minister did not entirely speak out to him, but he was open to a study on the taxation of donations and inheritances, to which I myself am very much in favour. However, we would need to have data on donations and estates to do so. However, when we ask for them, we are told that it is impossible to communicate them immediately, because notaries do not systematically bring them up. Before we touch on the system – which, moreover, I doubt that we wanted to change in the same direction – a centralized retrieving of the data of all notaries is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u216	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u217	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has also tabled amendments to this effect; That is why we are committed to the Senate vote, which strengthens intergenerational solidarity. With the lengthening of life, it seemed to us appropriate to facilitate solidarity within families, and the reduction of the period from 15 to 10 years is, in this respect, rather a good thing. We will therefore not vote on the amendments under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u218	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u219	Mrs Pires Beaune, I share your appreciation of Mr Darmanin's comments and I agree with your request to have the data available more quickly. At the moment, those that we have – which, as you said, do not go back quickly enough – are not presented in an exploitable format, and we are working precisely to do so to allow the study work that you call for, and which Mr Darmanin had also said he would like, to see how we can reform this system. With this in mind, we do not wish to change the system. We are therefore in favour of the amendments to delete the article tabled by the rapporteur and Mrs Pires Beaune, who are restoring the Assembly's text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u220	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 754.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u221	It tends to delete Article 2 duodecies inserted by the Senate, which extends the absence of a challenge to the partial exemption from the Dutreil Pact as a result of a donation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u222	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 755.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u223	It is intended to abolish Article 2 terdecies introduced by the Senate, which brings to 90% the exemption of transfer rights free of charge permitted by the Dutreil Pact in case of an eight-year retention commitment instead of four.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u224	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 756.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u225	It seeks to delete Article 2 quaterdecies inserted by the Senate, which introduces a reduction in inheritance rights by an amount equal to the transfer fee paid free of charge by the deceased during the three years preceding his death.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u226	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 757, 185 and 1009 to delete Article 2d. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 757.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u227	He proposed the deletion of the article introduced by the Senate, which amounted to €31,865 to €700,000, the allowance enjoyed by grandchildren in respect of donation rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u228	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u229	It is the same as the previous one, but I would like to add some additional elements. Mrs El Haïry, today there are very important reductions, a derogation scheme which applies to life insurance under inheritance rights and another derogation scheme, the Dutreil Pact, for the transfer of companies by succession. It must be borne in mind that today, an average estate amounts to 63000 euros and that, according to the latest data – which, in fact, dates a little – 85% of estates are exempt from inheritance duties: the beneficiary pays zero euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u230	Amendment No 1009 by Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne is being defended. What is the Government's view on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u231	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u232	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u233	On these issues of inheritance rights and donation, I had tabled an amendment, but it fell as a result of the deletion of Article 2 decies. Since 2017, we have been discussing these issues regularly here, as nothing has been done to promote estates and donations and to reduce fees. France is one of the most important countries in Europe with transmission rights. We must therefore take this situation into account. In addition, longer lifespan leads to changes and we need to think about how to organize transmissions to grandchildren rather than children. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I regret that no work is being done. Ms Pires Beaune rightly points out that we do not have all the data from notaries, but there are some data available and some findings can be made: we could move forward on this essential issue, which is putting our businesses into difficulty. In fact, this is one of the reasons why our country has few ITEs – mid-size companies: inheritance taxes weigh on the transmission of companies, which does not favour the growth of these companies and prevents them from becoming real forces for our country. I therefore regret the rejection of all the provisions adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u234	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u235	Mrs Pires Beaune, since you have called on me, I will reply that we must promote everything that will allow more solidarity. Even if the average amount of estates is in the order of 65000 euros, it turns out that by 2035 – memory – more than 70000 SMEs will not be transmitted in the state to the grandchildren of their owners. There is an opportunity to support this approach and to explore possibilities in this regard. This is a matter of great concern to us, because it is a question of strengthening intergenerational solidarity by giving up the generation of children in favour of the generation of grandchildren. According to France Stratégie, if this money were to circulate, it would make it easier to acquire a first dwelling or to increase a property without waiting for an annuity linked to the estate at the time of death. That is why we wish to work and deepen this issue in a spirit of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u236	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 296.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u237	Mr. Charles de Courson's amendment tends to add, at the beginning of the first sentence of paragraph 2, the words: "Compliance with the multilateral conventions on tax measures signed by France". Indeed, the rules governing the residence of French citizens are subject to international tax treaties which are designed to avoid double taxation. The amendment is therefore intended to ensure that this article is in line with France's international commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u238	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u239	[[Smile]] The amendment had been withdrawn in committee on the grounds that it was satisfied with article 55 of the Constitution. Mr de Courson wanting to hear it from the minister, and not from mine, I repeat my request for withdrawal and will allow the minister to speak, since his word is gospel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u240	[[Smile]] The Gospel according to St. Emmanuel?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u242	I confirm that, as the rapporteur has just said, this request is met by Article 55 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u243	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u244	[[Smile]] I bow to the gospel, to the Secretary of State and to the rapporteur, but, as this amendment from Mr de Courson, I do not feel allowed to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u245	Mr Alain David, in support of Amendment No. 186, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u246	It is part of a set of three amendments aimed at re-establishing Article 3 in its first reading version in the National Assembly: "The directors [– including the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Director-General, the Deputy Directors-General and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, as well as the President and the members of the Executive Board –] of companies whose headquarters are located in France and whose annual turnover exceeds 250 million euros are considered to be carrying on their professional activities in France as their principal activity. For undertakings which control other undertakings [...], turnover is the sum of their turnover and that of the undertakings which they control. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u248	To the extent that we have taken up many of the provisions of the Senate in committee, you will understand that I give an unfavorable opinion to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u249	I have before me three amendments, Nos 666, 758 and 706, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 666 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended. Amendment No 758 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 1187. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u250	In so far as we are dealing with a number of amendments of the same logic, I will allow myself, while defending point 758, to give the committee's opinion on the others. The Senate has removed a large part of the leadership functions initially affected by section 3, in a way that is somewhat too broad, including in the light of its intentions. The summary statement of the amendment tabled in the Senate indicated that certain positions had to be included in the list of duties concerned, although they had been withdrawn. To exclude the Deputy Directors General seems a bit surprising to us, as well as not to retain the Chairs of the Board of Directors. The Commission has therefore decided to reintroduce these two functions, as well as that of Chairman of the Supervisory Board, since this is the person who is at the head of the body exercising permanent control over the management of the company and who gives his prior consent to certain operations. On the other hand, the Commission considered it preferable to exclude the members of the Executive Board, an undertaking of up to seven: the measure provided for in Article 3 would have involved too many posts and might have seemed too broad. Among the amendments under discussion, Mr Woerth's No. 706 provides for the exclusion of the chairman of the board of directors of a limited company – SA – moniste. Such an exclusion would be somewhat surprising, as it would involve a legal risk as SAs would experience a different form of treatment. The same amendment also provides for the exclusion of managers who hold positions similar to those covered by the article, but who are subject to the tax system of employees in certain bodies. The Government's sub-amendment No. 1187 to amendment No. 758 of the Finance Committee tends, for its part, to remove from the list the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, to reintroduce the members of the Executive Board – I have just communicated my sentiment on this point – and to confirm the reinstatement of the Chairman of the Board of Directors if he is also Director General – the measure would therefore concern the Presidents-General, CEO. If I hear the desire to focus only on executive functions, I wonder, however, whether exclusions and restrictions go too far. To take a random example, a person who would be president of the board of directors of a French group without being its general manager, but who would otherwise be CEO of an international alliance to which the French group belongs would not fall within the scope of the scheme if the headquarters of that alliance were located abroad, for example in the Netherlands. I have a number of reservations about this proposal. I therefore give an opinion against Amendments Nos 666 and 706 and an opinion of wisdom to Subamendment No 1187 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u251	The Secretary of State, in support of Subamendment No. 1187, to Amendment No. 758, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u252	As the rapporteur-general has said, the Government's willingness is to give some clarification to the amendment by the Committee on Finance to which we subscribe, our aim being to be as consistent as possible with the arrangements we are putting in place and the targets we are seeking to achieve. Consequently, the Government is in favour of Amendment No. 758 of the Finance Committee, which was sub-amended by Sub-amendment No. 1187, and against Amendments Nos. 666 and 706.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u253	I call Mr Eric Woerth, chairman of the Committee on Finance, to support Amendment No. 706.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u254	We can see here that the Government is not, contrary to what it claims, pro-business. This finance bill attests to this: the measures are systematically directed against companies and those who undertake them. That wasn't the case two years ago, it is today; Perhaps this indicates a change in the mindset of your majority? In this case, the Senate provides useful clarifications without which the regime will apply to many people. The executive function must be understood in the narrow sense of the term. The Senate has thus limited the list of functions. With this amendment, I am restoring a number of points, particularly as regards the President of the Executive Board. The Government, on the other hand, goes much further than the Finance Committee, both in terms of the functions concerned and the tax base, for which it accepts the principle of retroactivity. How do you want a taxpayer to accept this? We could have understood the measure if you had introduced it for the year 2020 on the basis of the tax base of that year, but you do it as early as 2019. This is another blow to the attractiveness of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u255	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u256	The Government does not share the view of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance: the policy we are pursuing is in favour of business. I would also point out for the clarity of the discussion that the issue of retroactivity was dealt with in the original text. This is not an addition on our part by way of an amendment or sub-amendment, although I imagine that does not change your opinion on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u257	I have before me three amendments, Nos 759, 667 and 703, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 759 and 667 are identical. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 759.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u258	It is intended to remove an unnecessary clarification formulated by the Senate regarding the application of Article 3 from 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u259	Amendments Nos 667 by Mrs Christine Pires Beaune and 703 by Mr Eric Woerth are being defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u260	He supported Amendments Nos 759 and 667 and opposed Amendment No 703.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u261	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u262	You say that this clarification is not useful, but you are about to ask taxpayers to pay their taxes for 2019 with tax rules other than those originally provided for. This retroactivity, you would not accept it for yourself and it is unacceptable as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u263	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u264	It is unimaginable to change the rules at the end of the game. Change them for the year 2020 if you wish, but this policy that undermines the attractiveness of our country is very damaging to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u265	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u266	I read, Mr rapporteur-general, in the summary statement of your amendment that the leaders of the large French companies that will pay their taxes in France could not be taken short because of the announcements made by the President of the Republic in December 2018. However, if every time an announcement was made, this would involve a vote by Parliament, the situation would be quite different. I therefore do not think that this argument is valid. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] It is also true that France is in a very difficult situation due to fiscal instability. Decisions come into effect overnight without the possibility for interested persons to take action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u267	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u268	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u269	There's a mistake in your remarks, MP. This clarification is not useful for taxes with the exception of income tax, to the extent that it is satisfied: Article 1 of the PLF clearly provides for the application of the scheme from 2020 onwards. As for income tax, as you said yourself, the announcement was made and the Minister of Economy and Finance confirmed it on these banks at the beginning of 2019. I therefore propose that we return to the text adopted by the National Assembly at first reading by deleting the clarifications provided by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u270	Amendment No 760 of the Finance Committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u271	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 761.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u272	It is intended to delete Article 3b, since the Senate has extended the scope of the exemption from capital gains from transfers of immovable property in favour of social housing to transfers made to solidarity land organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u273	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 762.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u274	Once again, it is a matter of deleting an article introduced by the Senate, which provided for partial exemption of transfer rights free of charge to the tune of 80% and up to EUR 20 million for agricultural holdings in return for an 18-year conservation commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u276	He's in favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u277	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u278	I recall that amendments identical to those adopted in the Senate had been tabled in the National Assembly in order to protect, among other things, the wineries, coveted by foreign predators. France thus loses an increasing number of agricultural land – which we could protect with the measure approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u279	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u280	The agricultural world is experiencing a lot of difficulties and we need to support the establishment of young farmers, with family transmission playing an important role in this regard. I would remind you that one in three farmers will retire within three years; It's a big deal. As the rapporteur-general has pointed out in committee, there are arrangements in this area, like the Dutreil Pact, but there are still difficulties, while, as my colleague Sarah El Haïry pointed out, foreign predators are taking over wine-growing operations, but also other types of holdings, including cereals – this is the case in Normandy, where I am elected and where extra-European entities are acquiring land. We lack the tools to encourage the establishment of young farmers and the transmission of farms, and I regret that you are removing this article 3 quater, which was involved in addressing these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u281	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 443.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u282	Article 4 concerns ISCED. While the Government has very proactive ambitions in terms of energy transformation of housing, article 4 provides, purely and simply, for the ISCED to be called into question and its termination in 2021. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to delete clause 4 as adopted by the Senate and to restore the ISCED as we have known it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u284	The amendment proposes the complete deletion of the article, on which we have had extremely rich debates at first reading, which I will not repeat extensively. However, I would like to recall what this article provides for: a refocusing of the system on technical actions whose energy efficiency is proven and the concentration of the effort on households with the lowest incomes. Finally, the transformation of ISCED into a bonus is a promise of the President of the Republic. I believe that this is a fair and effective reform, and I will give an unfavorable opinion to your amendment, as well as to all those who seek to change the scale drawn up in consultation with the sector and in accordance with the energy efficiency of each gesture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u286	Like the rapporteur-general, without necessarily repeating the arguments exchanged during the first reading of the finance bill, the Government would oppose the amendments aimed at returning to the balance of the provisions adopted on that occasion. We will also endorse the amendments tabled by the Finance Committee to this effect, while the Government will defend a proposed amendment to ensure better coordination between the metropolitan and overseas territories on the various ceilings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u287	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u288	I too wish to speak about Mrs Dalloz's excellent amendment. A bonus mechanism is very good, except there are two huge holes in the racket. On the one hand, landlords and tenants will no longer be able to benefit from ISCED. It's a funny way of looking at things! I thought we wanted to avoid thermal colanders and that the problem was all about housing. What matters is that the renovation is done, regardless of the status – owner or tenant – of the person occupying the dwelling. On the other hand, owners who earn a little more money than others will no longer be entitled to the ISCED. As a result of these two restrictions, many housing units will be excluded from the scheme. Either the facility is there to look good, or it is part of a real policy of energy renovation of buildings and housing. We wonder why we want to vote for something like this... It is quite singular to exclude 20% of the owners from the device! The question is not how much homeowners earn, but how much they own.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u289	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u290	But those you exclude have a lot of them. Either you're for energy renovation or you're not. You cannot stay permanently in the in-between.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u291	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u292	I would like to add to the remarks made by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance. Here we see the limits of "at the same time." You have a renovation target of 500,000 units per year. However, half of the dwellings that benefited from ISCED in previous years belonged to persons in the ninth or tenth income decile. In the Finance Bill for 2020, you intend to exclude these two deciles from the benefit of ISCED. That is to say, if we make a short calculation, that you reduce your ambition from 500,000 to 250,000 renovated dwellings. Stop displaying and communicating! You are totally incoherent: if you want to carry out the 500,000 renovations you display, you must let the ninth and tenth deciles continue to benefit from the ISCED.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u293	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 763.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u294	It tends to delete paragraph 5, introduced by the Senate, which was intended to extend the benefit of ISCED to landlords, while the scheme enters its last year. I would prefer us to stick to the request for a report adopted by the House at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u295	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 436 and 505. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 436.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u296	I adapt the level of my ambitions: since you do not want to delete Article 4, which detracts from the ISCED system, I propose to extend it, in its present form, until 2021. One more moment, gentlemen of the executioners! The ISCED would therefore continue to benefit all its current beneficiaries in 2020, regardless of the tax income decile to which they belong. I repeat the strong argument I made earlier: if we really want to move towards an energy renovation of housing, this tax advantage must of course be open to all owners and tenants, regardless of their income.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u297	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 505.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u298	Similarly, it aims to extend ISCED, as it currently exists, until 2021. It is important that households, which your reform tends to exclude from the scheme, can complete the renovation of their housing. As the Chairman of the Finance Committee and Marie-Christine Dalloz have said, we are defending a fair tax treatment not only of the different types of housing, but also of the different households that benefit from it. The stakes are the massification of the thermal renovation of the houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u299	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u300	It is unfavourable, for the reasons stated above.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u301	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 764.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u302	It aims to re-establish a paragraph amended by the Senate, in order to reintroduce very high-energy-performance gas boilers into the ISCED field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u303	It's very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u304	I have before me six amendments, Nos 31, 487, 513, 33, 491 and 515, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 31, 487 and 513 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 33, 491 and 515. Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 31 is being defended. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 487, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u305	Here again, we want to make ISCED more efficient by reintegrating heating control systems, i.e. the "programming" component, into the scope of eligible expenditure. The aim is to improve the energy efficiency of heating appliances which are not obsolete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u306	Amendment No 513 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u307	With this amendment by our colleague Vincent Descoeur, we propose to include electronically regulated transmitters with advanced functions, i.e. high-performance radiators with intelligent steering, in the ISCED field. These radiators are an efficient and clean solution to speed up the replacement of old electric convectors, known as toasters. This would promote energy renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u308	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 491.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u309	We want the toasters to be replaced by these high-performance radiators. The amendment is therefore intended to reintroduce the latter into the scope of ISCED eligible expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u310	Amendment No 515 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u311	It is unfavorable, as I indicated in my opening remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u312	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 446.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u313	Paragraph 16 of Article 4 tends to impose a minimum surface criterion for the eligibility of solar thermal equipment to the ISCED. However, it is difficult to establish a single surface area for the entire territory. This amendment by our colleague François-Michel Lambert aims to improve the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u315	Unfavorable, always for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u316	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 35, 492 and 516. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u317	With this amendment by Mr Vincent Descoeur, we propose to include air-to-air heat pumps in the ISCED field, as they are an effective solution. It is important to accelerate the replacement of old electric convectors, which overconsumption, undermine the French budget and worsen peaks in electricity consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u318	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 492.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u319	Here again, the aim is to improve the effectiveness of the ISCED and to allow the French to take the lead, leaving them freedom of choice. The amendment aims to include air-to-air heat pumps in the ISCED field, in order to encourage the French to invest in this type of equipment, an efficient, recognized and clean solution to replace old convectors or toasters. Everyone would gain, on the one hand, the environment, on the other hand, our citizens, in purchasing power and in the means to invest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u320	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 516.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u321	Let me ask you a bit of a technical question, Secretary of State: why are air-to-air heat pumps excluded from the ISCED field? In some mountain areas, geothermal heat pumps cannot be used, as it is not possible to drill deep or carry out earthworks to install a network of horizontal sensors. Therefore, the solution of air-to-air heat pumps seems to be needed. Why are we excluding them from the start? In the name of what dogmatic vision? Is it because of a lack of agreement on this? I don't understand why air-to-air heat pumps are being tried like this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u322	What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u323	It is unfavorable, as I indicated at the beginning of the discussion of the amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u324	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u325	Disadvantaged, for the reasons already mentioned. I would add, Mrs. Dalloz, that air-to-air heat pumps are more like air-conditioning appliances...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u326	They're heat pumps!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u327	...to the mechanisms we want to promote in the context of the energy transition. Moreover, their inclusion in the ISCED field would have a very significant budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u328	The reason is therefore only budgetary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u329	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 224.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u330	It aims to restore the eligibility of the ISCED for expenditure on a building located in La Réunion, Guyana, Martinique, Guadeloupe or Mayotte and aimed at the acquisition of materials or equipment – such as air brewers – to optimize natural ventilation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u332	It is unfavorable, always for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u333	I have before me two amendments, Nos 299 and 225, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u334	This amendment by our colleague Bertrand Pancher aims to align the tax credit ceiling for a single, widowed or divorced person with that for a couple subject to joint taxation. The ceiling would now be EUR 4800 for a tax home, regardless of its composition. There is no reason, all things being equal, to penalize some taxpayers over others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u335	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 225.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u336	The total expenditure taken into account for the calculation of ISCED may not exceed an overall multiannual ceiling, increased by the number of dependants. Thus, any eligible expenditure combined, the amount of tax credit which the taxpayer may receive for the same dwelling of which he is the owner and which he allocates to his principal dwelling may not exceed, for a period of five consecutive years between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2020, the sum of EUR 2400 for a single, widowed or divorced person or that of EUR 4800 for a couple subject to joint taxation. The members of the Socialist and Related Group propose to increase these ceilings to 3000 and 6000 euros respectively. It is necessary to provide for sufficiently high amounts, taking into account the financial cost of energy renovation of a dwelling, in particular a comprehensive renovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u337	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u338	It is unfavorable, always for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u339	The Government's amendment No. 1176 is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u340	I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 611.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u341	The reform tends to exclude from the ISCED scheme taxpayers with average incomes, those in the ninth or tenth decile. This amendment by our colleague, Lise Magnier, aims to make them eligible again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u343	At first reading, we have already made a gesture in favour of wealthy households, with regard to the costs of insulation of opaque walls, because these are very expensive. It seems to me that we have reached a balance and that we should stay there. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u344	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 81 and 613. Mr Gilles Lurton, in support of Amendment No. 81, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u345	It aims to make eligible for ISCED for the overall renovation work carried out in energy-efficient dwellings of class F or G, provided that they lead to the transition of the dwelling to class C, B or A. I find it difficult to understand the Government's objective: I thought it was to renovate as many housing units as possible, but you have just excluded the ninth and tenth deciles of the ISCED – and I do not understand why Mr Descoeur's amendment No 88 fell, not 611. The measure proposed in this amendment would make it possible to improve the situation of dwellings which are real heat sinks, even if they will never be able to meet the standards completely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u346	Amendment No 613 by Mrs Lise Magnier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u347	He's unfavorable. A satisfactory balance has already been achieved at first reading thanks to an amendment by the Government introducing into the ISCED field, in favour of intermediate households, a flat rate of 150 euros per square metre for the overall renovation expenditure; affluent households still benefit from the isolation expenditure measure. I believe that these provisions are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u348	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 765.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u349	It is intended to delete a paragraph, introduced by the adoption in the Senate of two amendments, to extend to the 20% of the most affluent households the possibility of benefiting from ISCED for the overall renovation of their housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u350	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 50 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u351	I have before me two amendments, Nos 766 and 440, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 766.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u352	The Senate has adopted identical amendments that align the scale applicable to all closed stoves, stoves, inserts and fireplaces with certified green flame or granular logs, up to 1500 euros. In the text adopted by the Assembly, pellet stoves and stoves received a tax credit of EUR 1500, while those with logs were reimbursed up to EUR 1000. I've become a great log specialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u353	That's pretty good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u354	[[Smile]] Probably because I broke my knee twice during this legislature! I propose to delete the scale amendments introduced by the Senate with respect to closed stoves, stoves, inserts and fireplaces with logs certified as green flame or granular.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u355	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 440.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u356	I also propose simplification, but it only concerns the phrase "certified green flame. It is a trade name corresponding to a recognized qualification for boilers. The expression speaks for itself, it refers to appliances with high energy efficiency, for low pollution. I do not understand why you want to remove the related tax credit, even though you are posting a very green policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u357	What is the committee's opinion on this second amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u358	[[Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz protested]] I think you should be pleased with the committee's amendment, which also deletes the reference to green flame certification!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u359	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u360	He supported the amendment by the Committee on Finance; It is therefore against Mrs Dalloz's amendment, unless it withdraws it in favour of the committee's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u361	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 425.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u362	It concerns a concept – it is sometimes good to define it. I propose to include in Article 4 the concept of global renovation: this would allow all the work necessary to improve the energy performance of a dwelling to be carried out and to bring it into line with the "low-consumption building" standards set out in Article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code. The concept is interesting since it allows us to consider the problem of renovation as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u363	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u364	Mrs Dalloz is right to praise the value of the concept since we have already adopted it at first reading! However, we were more generous, having a package of 150 euros per square metre, instead of 100. I therefore propose withdrawal. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u365	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 767.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u366	I propose to delete the amendment to the tax credit schedule introduced by the Senate, with respect to geothermal heat pumps in collective housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u367	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u368	It also concerns ISCED and aims to reduce the remaining burden on the taxpayer. This can be as high as 25 per cent, but it remains prohibitive for some families when work is important, such as insulation. We therefore propose to adopt a tax credit covering up to 80% of eligible expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u369	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u370	Unfavorable, as in first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u371	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u372	It aims to allow the amount of the energy transition tax credit to be adjusted upwards only on the basis of the 2012 RT weather data. Indeed, for identical expenses, the tax credit is the same for a resident of the Mediterranean coast or the heart of the Hauts-de-France. However, the share of the energy bill in the budget, for example, is generally greater for a resident of the Hauts-de-France than for a resident of Sète. The need to carry out energy renovation works is therefore more important for the former. For this reason, the amendment aims to make it possible to increase the ISCED.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u373	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u374	It is unfavorable, even if I live in an area where it fell two meters of snow during the weekend!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u375	[[Smile]] What is the congressman doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u376	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 768.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u377	It concerns gas boilers and aims to restore the text of the National Assembly, the provision adopted by the Senate in the field of regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u378	Amendment No 1084 by Mr Joël Giraud is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u379	Amendment No 1085 by Mr Joël Giraud is also drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u380	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 769.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u381	It seeks to delete Article 4 bis, introduced by the Senate, aimed at allocating a fraction of the TICEP to local and regional authorities which have adopted a territorial climate-air-energy plan, a regional climate, air and energy scheme or a regional plan for the development, sustainable development and equality of territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u382	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 770.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u383	It is intended to delete Article 4b, also introduced by the Senate, aimed at assigning a fraction of the ICTPE to communities of municipalities which exercise the competence to organise mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u384	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u385	Article 5, the details of which we discovered nightly at the first reading of the PLF, presents enormous difficulties. Following the example of the municipalities of the Jura department, I have made the following observation – which you will undoubtedly share, Mr. Secretary of State: all the municipalities concerned by high departmental rates of property tax on built properties, TFPB – therefore belonging to departments that had chosen a dynamic tax – are overcompensated. Overcompensation does not mean that they will affect more; they will be reimbursed to the euro near the loss of the revenues of the housing tax. In reality, the tax revenue collected from the Department's taxpayers will be transferred to the national level, and then offset the loss of income from other municipalities. There will therefore no longer be any link between taxation on the inhabitants and territorial distribution. You have removed the territorial link, as you have removed the dynamic aspect of revenues from built land. I checked this morning for the amounts involved for a small department like Jura. On a year-over-year basis, it received an additional EUR 2 million. It is now the State that will benefit from it. In addition, the compensation for the department will be made by allocating a share of VAT, whereas it is a recipe of no dynamic character. The compensation will certainly be paid to the nearest euro. However, the link between taxpayers and the community is dissolved, the dynamism of revenues is extinguished and departments are deprived of their decision-making capacity: this reform initiated by Article 5 is a disaster for local and regional authorities. And do not claim once again that it is for the benefit of French taxpayers: those who do not pay housing tax will not be exempt, nor will they receive any additional income to improve their purchasing power!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u386	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u387	This is probably the last time, at least in 2019, we will have the opportunity to express our views on the reform of the housing tax; on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I agree with Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz. I repeat that we are opposed to the removal of the housing tax, for several reasons. The first is the one that Ms.Dalloz has just developed: she breaks the link between the citizen and the community, and therefore the local public services that are assigned to her. [[Olivia Grégoire and Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas protest]] I invite you to read an article published this morning in Les Échos: for the first time, a majority of French people – 53% in this case – are in favour of improving public service, even if they pay more taxes. I found this article very interesting. I fully agree with my fellow citizens that the removal of the housing tax is a bad idea. They understand this when it is explained that the effect of the reform varies according to the region in which you live, but also depending on whether you are liable for the tax, since a large part of the population does not pay a housing tax – by definition it will not experience any improvement in its purchasing power. I always quote this example because he is speaking: if we compare the housekeeper, who does not pay a housing tax, and his boss, to whom we are going to return 2500 euros, according to an example of my territory, the demonstration is quickly made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u388	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u389	I had not planned to intervene, but I feel compelled to do so in response to certain inaccuracies. The first argument is that removing the housing tax would dissolve the link between the French and their territorial community. But more than half of French people do not pay income tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u390	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u391	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Are they less French, though? You can't say that! These questions are not just about taxation! You're talking about a dynamic tax: you don't pay a dynamic tax, you pay a tax! I come to your second argument. You claim that when the municipalities are overcompensated, the property tax would leave the departments. This is not true, since they will receive in the form of VAT, compensation for the same amount. For them, the balance sheet of the measure will therefore be neutral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u392	That's not what it says!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u393	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] And, since the share of VAT that will leave the department will be smaller, we can even consider that the link between the citizen and his department will not only be maintained, but strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u394	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u395	I agree with my colleagues that the housing tax should not be abolished, even though I agree that it is probably too late to go back. [[Marie-Christine Dalloz applauds]] Error seems fundamental to me for a number of reasons. I recall a simple principle: it was one of the few taxes, if not the only one, that still linked the taxpayer to the public service of his municipality. Many Members have not been elected locally, but others know what that means. The Government and the majority cannot constantly advocate short circuits, praise the contributory and participatory, and deny a tax directly linked to the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u396	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u397	The removal of the housing tax is an old idea. We've been dragging her for years, since she was born long before you got to the responsibilities. If she's always been refused, it's because she's bad. Moreover, it is not funded. I did not know that the State had a budgetary surplus such that it did not need VAT! The amount he's going to miss...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u398	17 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u399	...we'll have to find him somewhere. You can integrate it into deficits; You can also apply for financial markets. What progress it would be, isn't it, to make them bear the weight of local public services! But where are we going to do this? I don't know. The Senate had introduced good measures: a little delay, because there was a need for a discount, an indexation of rental values that was in line with the legislation, in short, common sense measures that were in the right direction. By deciding to delete them, you persist in a terrible error.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u400	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u401	I didn't plan to intervene either, but finally... Just look at the mechanism to compensate for the removal of the housing tax – which is based on the transfer of the TFPB's departmental share of the product to the communal bloc – to see that it is working well. [["That's right! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] For being mayor for 16 years – so I'm not a disconnected MP – I know it's a good method. I remember that the abolition of the trade tax had been more traumatic, and that we had seen it arrive without any real phenomenon of compensation. However, we found that the breakdown of the relationship between the taxpayer and the territory, which existed at the time, was without much damage. We can hear some of your arguments, but I would remind you that the housing tax is not removed for secondary residences, that there are opportunities for increases and that the transfer of the built land tax to the municipalities will give mayors a lever. I've done the calculations. They will not have to go into an increase delusion, but they will have a good tool that will enable them to act on local taxation. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I therefore consider that with this article we propose a measure of fairness, to which I am very much in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u402	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u403	I will not repeat all the arguments developed at first reading. We all have them in mind. I recall, however, that the abolition of the housing tax was an undertaking of the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u404	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u405	... which will enable all households to benefit from an average increase in purchasing power of 750 euros per year and which will guarantee communities sustainable, dynamic and fair resources, as they will be compensated to the nearest euro. I would add three arguments to those put forward by Mr Labaronne in particular. On the one hand, Mrs Dalloz, we have decided to maintain the benefit of the overcompensation up to a maximum of 10000 euros for 7350 communes, of which 7,000 are less than 1000 inhabitants, which corresponds to territories such as yours or mine, and more generally to rural areas. On the other hand, I object to the idea that our proposal would deprive departments of a dynamic in the field of TFPB.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u406	That's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u407	And this for a very simple reason, which the departmental actors confirm. Over a relatively long period, the rate of increase of the TFPB's revenue for the departments is 2.29 per cent, taking into account both the physical and flat-rate evolution of the bases and the evolution of the rates. Over the same period, VAT at national level – which will benefit the departments as it will determine their share – is 2.89 %. This means that the dynamics of the recipe that we are going to entrust to the departments as compensation exceeds by 0.6 percentage points that they know today with the TFPB.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u408	In 2008, VAT had fallen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u409	The years 2008 and 2009 are the only years during which VAT has fallen. But then we were facing a systemic crisis, which, as we all know, called for different responses. I would add that the finance bill provides for a precautionary measure – in my view, it will never be activated – under which the state's share will never be less than that paid in 2021. In addition to the compensation of 15.1 billion, we have proposed to the Parliament, which voted for it, the allocation of an additional 250 million euros, also dynamic, which will replace the payment of the stabilization fund to the departments, replacing the exceptional support fund to the departments, or emergency funds, whose resources averaged 135 million. We thus demonstrate that the compensation is integral, since we compensate both the revenue from the TFPB and the payment of the stabilization fund – fraction that we raise, I repeat, from 135 to 250 million. Finally, after hearing each other's arguments, I would point out that, when clause 5 was considered in the Senate, the only group that tabled an amendment to delete it was the Communist group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u410	We've started again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u411	I have seen very well and I welcome your consistency in this regard. On the other hand, during the debate in the Senate, the other groups did not question the allocation of VAT to intercommunals and departments or the allocation of the TFPB to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u412	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u413	The only amendments that they proposed concerned the implementation deadlines – and we objected to them – or the marginal technical modalities, relating to the amount of the compensation. We therefore consider that the High Assembly has validated the main architecture of the reform. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I keep in mind the words of the speaker of the Centralist Union Group, Mr Delahaye, and of the Socialist and Republican Group, Mr Raynal, sincerely acknowledging that the mechanism we were proposing to compensate for the abolition of the housing tax was more intelligent and efficient than the creation of the FNGIR – the national fund for the individual guarantee of resources – to compensate for the abolition of the business tax. Isn't that proof that we're going in the right direction?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u414	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 301, 584 and 1005 to delete the article. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 301.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u415	The first signatory to the amendment is Mr Pupponi. While the abolition of the housing tax had to be compensated against the euro, the flat-rate non-revalorisation of rental values according to inflation would reduce local resources by EUR 250 million per year. The draft finance law for 2020 goes even further by planning to cancel in 2020 the effects of rate increases decided by municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation. Local tax reform cannot be adopted under these conditions. It is therefore imperative to postpone it. That is the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u416	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 584.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u417	We agree with the arguments put forward by Ms. Pires Beaune and Ms. Dalloz, who recalled the cost of removing the housing tax for communities. By this measure, you reduce their financial autonomy and break the link between them and citizens. I would add, Mr Secretary of State, that our group is proposing to delete the article, such as the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. On the other hand, you indicated that the removal of the housing tax was a promise of candidate Macron. That's not true. The programme did not refer to extending this measure to the most affluent 20%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u418	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u419	Let's be precise! Finally, you invoke justice. But what justice is there to extend the benefit of this measure to the richest 20%? If you wanted to be fair, it would be better to revise the rental values, which are the basis for the calculation of this tax and which, reflecting the conditions of the rental market on January 1, 1970, no longer correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u420	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1005.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u421	With this amendment, we want to express our opposition to the reform of local taxation proposed by the executive. Given its importance and its multiple implications, this reform should have been the subject of a dedicated bill, which alone respects the work of parliamentarians, representatives of the people. This fundamental condition has not been met. In essence, by removing the housing tax for 80 per cent of households, the executive and its majority have put their finger on a path that undermines the ability of local elected officials to act and the autonomy of communities for latent re-centralization, undermining the link between citizens and their representatives. Having thus weakened this tax tool, the Government proposes the complete abolition of the tax for principal residences. First of all, this will decrease again – by some 8 billion – the contribution of wealthy households to the financing of public action. The measure is not financed. Then, as compensation, the executive proposes the transfer of the departmental share of the TFPB. There is legitimate doubt as to the additional autonomy that would be granted at the municipal level. The departments, on the other hand, will lose a lot by seeing them escape a tax tool on which they could act. They would be offset, you say, by a fraction of VAT, which will increasingly institutionalize this particularly unfair tool. The way you treat communities, their elected representatives and their citizens there goes back to our conception of decentralization that is truly respectful of the territories. That is why we propose to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u422	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u423	Unsurprisingly, I express an opinion against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u424	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u425	Unfavorable opinion, of course. I confirm to Mrs Rubin that in the Senate, only the Communist Group has tabled an amendment to delete Article 5. There are no senators, La France insoumée. I would also point out that Article 5 initiates a process of revising rental values, setting methodological milestones and providing for a timetable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u426	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u427	I heard your arguments, Secretary of State. I will bring a new one to the discussion: the Government is in total contradiction with itself. By Article 5, it recentralises and removes the link between the citizen and the basic communities of the municipality and intercommunality; Yet in a few months, he will present us with a bill on "3D" – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u428	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 771.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u429	It is a matter of re-establishing the version adopted by the National Assembly, since the Senate has postponed the new funding scheme for local and regional authorities by one year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u430	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 302.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u431	The transformation of the rebate for 80% of taxpayers into an exemption is a breach of the State's commitment to ensure full compensation for housing tax losses for municipalities and public institutions for inter-communal cooperation – EPCI. The exemptions almost always give rise to reduced compensation. Mr Pupponi's amendment seeks to remedy this situation. For details, I refer you to the explanatory memorandum to the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u432	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u433	I said it at first reading and repeated it in committee: this measure is the subject of a complete misunderstanding. The problem you raise does not exist. I therefore suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u434	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u435	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u436	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u437	We very much believe in this amendment. I am all the less anxious to withdraw it because it is proposed by a colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u438	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 772.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u439	The amendment is intended to abolish the one-year postponement of the application of the new funding scheme for local and regional authorities, adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u440	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 773.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u441	Like the previous one, it is intended to re-establish the version adopted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u442	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 774.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u443	It also aims to re-establish the version adopted by our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u444	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 775.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u445	It is a pity that the amendment is not in joint discussion with the following, tabled by Mr. Labaronne and the Government. Amendment No 775 aims to restore the abolition of the exemption from housing tax – TH – for private non-profit organisations managing health, social and medico-social activities. Following the tabling of this amendment by the committee, Mr Labaronne tabled a very interesting amendment, No. 710, which is the subject of a sub-amendment by the Government. The Government also intends, I believe, to table an amendment of a similar nature. Before I put the amendment to the vote, I would like this to be clarified. For my part, I would gladly withdraw Amendment No 775 from the committee in favour of No 710 by Mr Labaronne sub-amended. It remains to be seen what the Government's proposals are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u446	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u447	Let us make things clear: Mr Labaronne has tabled an amendment, No. 710, which is entirely acceptable to us, provided that it is amended by the Government's sub-amendment No. 1188, which deals with the deadlines for the implementation of the measure. The Government would therefore have liked amendment No. 775 of the Finance Committee to be withdrawn in favour of that of Mr. Labaronne, sub-amended. However, Subamendment No 1188, which the Government had tabled in Amendment No 710, must be corrected, in the interests of consistency – we must coordinate the dates mentioned in the article. This rectification is under way. I therefore request, Madam President, a suspension of a few minutes, in order to transmit to all the Members present either the corrected version of the sub-amendment or a new amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u448	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u449	The meeting was resumed. Mr rapporteur-general, would you like to retain Amendment No 775?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u450	I withdraw it in favour of Amendment No 1204 tabled by the Government at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u451	Mr Daniel Labaronne, do you wish to maintain Amendment No 711?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u452	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u453	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1204 and 710, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 710 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 1188. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1204.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u454	The amendment takes up the exemption measure proposed by Mr Labaronne to Amendment No 710 and sets it at 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u455	I call Mr Daniel Labaronne to support Amendment No. 710.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u456	The amendment concerns private non-profit organisations managing EHPADs. It aims to exempt them from the housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u457	Mr Secretary of State, would you like to retain sub-amendment No 1188?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u458	I'll take it off. The purpose of the sub-amendment is fulfilled by the Government's amendment No. 1204, tabled at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u459	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u460	Favourable on Amendment No 1204; unfavourable on Amendment No 710.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u461	What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 710?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u462	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u463	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u464	Without commenting on the substance of the measure, I note that this exemption is introduced to the detriment of local authorities. It seemed to me that we had collectively made a commitment, at least among the members of the Finance Committee, to always leave to the local authorities the choice of whether or not to apply exemptions. According to the impact study, what will be the amount of revenue loss associated with this measure for communities?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u465	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u466	According to the version adopted by the Senate, all private non-profit organizations managing medical and social institutions would be exempt from housing tax – as is already the case for public bodies; This proposal seemed to me to be quite welcome. Mrs Pires Beaune, I have one answer: we know that the housing tax is only very partially collected from the establishments concerned. As a result, even if Mr Labaronne's amendment was in the right direction in maintaining the exemption for EHPADs, it would have been desirable to go further, particularly in favour of facilities for persons with disabilities. Such an exemption would not have caused significant revenue losses, because the housing tax is only very partially collected. In short, if the rapporteur had maintained amendment No. 775 of the committee, I would have voted against it, since I regret that we are going back to the amendment adopted by the Senate. That being said, Mr Labaronne's amendment is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u467	Amendment No 776 of the Finance Committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u468	Amendment No 777 by the Committee on Finance is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u469	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 778.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u470	The amendment is intended to re-establish the version of the text adopted by the National Assembly on the project of general interest of Metaleurop.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u471	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 779.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u472	The amendment is intended to restore indexation to the consumer price index – CPI – of TH rental values for principal residences. It also contains a coordination measure concerning the revalorisation of the amounts of the allowances fixed in value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u473	I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u474	The amendment is intended to reintroduce the procedures for smoothing the rates of taxation of the housing tax introduced by changes in the inter-municipal perimeter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u475	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u476	I am against this proposal, as I was already at first reading. To the extent that the rates of taxation of the housing tax are frozen for all local authorities, it seems normal to suspend the smoothing, progressive tax integration and harmonization of rates in the municipalities concerned. On the other hand, smoothing periods usually last twelve years; A three-year freeze is therefore not excessive. Finally, I would like to point out that smoothing procedures are at a constant rate of return for local and regional authorities. For these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u477	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 343.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u478	I hear the rapporteur-general's arguments, but could we not clarify the duration of suspension of the smoothing, progressive tax integration and harmonisation of the tax rates on housing taxes, now the housing tax on secondary residences and other furnished premises not allocated to the main dwelling – THRS? This clarification would allow the resumption of rate convergence from the 2023 financial year onwards, a logical measure that would make the system more readable for intercommunities. This is fundamental, even in the absence of budgetary implications: the mechanism must be maintained, in order to ensure the reality of equity between taxpayers and, ultimately, its effectiveness. I propose the date of 2023, which seems reasonable to me for smoothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u479	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u480	The amendment is perfectly satisfied, since the suspension of the smoothing procedure concerns the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, and ends in 2023. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, my opinion would be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u481	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 586.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u482	By this amendment, we oppose the freezing of the flat-rate revalorisation of the rental bases in 2020. The Government claims to compensate the euro for the loss of revenue for local and regional authorities caused by the abolition of the housing tax. How could this be done if the amount of compensation is calculated on the basis of rental values prior to the removal of the housing tax? We would like to recall that the lump-sum adjustment has been in force since the Finance Act for 2017. Pursuant to Article 1518a of the General Tax Code, it corresponds to inflation recorded from November to November. Suspend the application of this article, as provided for in Article 5 of the Finance Bill for 2020, is equivalent to illegitimately amputating local budget resources valued at EUR 250 million per year. Such an operation is far from neutral for the budgets of local and regional authorities. That is why we call on the Government to respect its commitment and to compensate for the abolition of the housing tax to the euro, using a calculation of compensation that takes full account of the evolution of rental values.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u483	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u484	Mrs Rubin's amendment is partially satisfied, as the Assembly adopted a 0.9% increase at first reading, equivalent to the CPI recorded in September 2019. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u485	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 780.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u486	This is to return to the 2019 rate as a reference for the establishment of the residential tax from 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u487	Amendment No 781 of the Finance Committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u488	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 119.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u489	Section 5 provides that the property tax on built properties replaces the housing tax as a central tax. We propose not to establish a link between THRS and TFPB, since TFPB is also paid by companies. A link between these two taxes seems illegitimate to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u490	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u491	I am opposed to the amendment, which would introduce a few municipalities to the temptation to increase the THRS, thus spreading the idea that compensation is not properly ensured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u492	Amendment No 782 by the Committee on Finance is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u493	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 303.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u494	In paragraph 383 of section 5, we wish to replace 2017 with 2019 as the base year for THRS or TFPB rates. The initial 2018 Finance Act introduced a three-year progressive housing tax relief for 80% of taxpayers. This exemption should be compensated on the basis of the previous year's rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u495	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u496	Unfavorable opinion: Even the Senate has not retained such a maximalist version!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u497	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 783.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u498	It aims to restore the version of the National Assembly for the calculation of the correction coefficient – the "coco", now well known.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u499	[[Smile]] Be careful what you say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u500	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 304.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u501	It tends to include equalisation in the calculation of compensation due to territorial authorities which have lost the proceeds of the housing tax on the principal residences and have undergone the transfer of the departmental share of the TFPB.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u502	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u503	The opinion is unfavourable on this amendment, which combines equalisation and compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u504	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 784.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u505	It aims to re-establish the version of the text adopted by the National Assembly at first reading on the simulation report of the compensation scheme in 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u506	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 785.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u507	It also aims to re-establish the version adopted by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u508	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 786.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u509	It aims to eliminate the creation of simulations of the impact of the reform of the various financial indicators used for eligibility and the calculation of allocations. It re-establishes the version adopted by the National Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u510	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 315.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u511	In the 2017 review of the PLF, a portion of the VAT had been allocated to the regions instead of the overall funding allocation – DGF. On that occasion, we had a rather rich debate about the prospect of a white year for the dynamics of community resources, since the compensation was based on the previous fiscal year's revenue. The amendment proposes that compensation, granted in the form of an allocation of a fraction of VAT to departments, should be calculated not on the basis of payments made in the previous year, but on the basis of payments made in the current year. The Government reminded us earlier that the VAT dynamic was, if I have heard correctly, 2.89 per cent: it would be appropriate for departments not to lose the benefit of this increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u512	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u513	As at first reading, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u514	I have before me thirteen amendments, Nos 787 to 799, which can be presented together. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u515	These amendments relate to the calculation of the compensation due to the IEPs. The first, No 787, relates to the abolition of indexation on the harmonised index of consumer prices – HICP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u516	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 305.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u517	A portion of the management costs relating to the business property assessment – CFE –, the business value added assessment – CVAE – and the housing tax were allocated, in 2014, to the regions, as compensation for the general allocation of decentralization – DGD – as part of the restructuring of the financing of vocational training. The removal of the housing tax will result in the disappearance of the product corresponding to these management costs, the amount to be offset for the regions is estimated at more than €272 million in value 2017. Section 5 of the Finance Bill provides that this loss of revenue will be compensated to the regions by a budget allocation. The amendment is intended to replace the vector of financial compensation with a supplementary fraction of VAT, in order to secure the budget of the regions, as recommended by the Regions of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u518	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u519	As at first reading, and for the same reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u520	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1144.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u521	This is a coordination amendment, designed to secure the payment to municipalities and EPCIs of the compensation allowance for the exemption from the housing tax in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u522	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 800.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u523	It aims to restore the version adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, by restoring, in 2020, the recovery scheme for local and regional authorities having increased their rates between 2017 and 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u524	Article 5 bis has been deleted by the Senate. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 801 to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u525	It aims to restore the article, adopted by the National Assembly at first reading and deleted by the Senate, creating a premium area for the office tax – TSB – in Île-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u526	The amendment is the subject of three sub-amendments, Nos. 1159, 1160 and 1158, which may be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u527	I have tabled three sub-amendments to Amendment No 801, which penalises the establishment of companies in many districts of Paris and the Hauts-de-Seine. A study by an important international auditing and consulting firm has identified Paris as Europe's most attractive city for 2020. However, the amendment tightens office taxation, which is a bad signal to companies in the European context of Brexit, which should, on the contrary, invite us to deploy competitiveness policies for companies and groups that are likely to continue to seek to relocate their headquarters to Western Europe. Recent developments in the United Kingdom should encourage the Government to retain a moderate tax on offices, in order to give the francilian region every opportunity in the European competition to attract companies that relocate. In addition, this further increase in the TSB follows another increase last year, which was accompanied by a government-agreed slowdown in the schedule for the reduction of the corporate tax rate. By increasing this tax two years in a row, the state is taking the risk of anchoring the belief among investors that it is to be reviewed every year. In the absence of an abandonment of this increase measure, Subamendment No 1160 proposes to reduce the increase in the tax from 20% to 10%, and point No 1158 wishes to postpone the entry into force of the increase in the tax by one year and fix it on 1 January 2021, in order to give companies a breathing valve and allow them to move to Île-de-France. As for sub-amendment No 1159, although I have no illusion about the negative opinion which will be given to these three proposals, it provides, in the absence of the abandonment of the increase in the tax, for the companies concerned to register it as a charge deductible from their taxable income.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u528	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u529	[[Smile]] Mrs Kuster received the gift of divination: I am in fact against the three sub-amendments. I would point out that Amendment No 801 is merely a copy of the amendment proposed at first reading by your colleague Gilles Carrez.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u530	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u531	Opinion in favour of the amendment by the Committee on Finance; against the three sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u532	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u533	We would like to reiterate our opposition to the creation of an increased rate and premium zone which would consist of several Parisian districts as well as some communes in the Hauts-de-Seine department. This will to overtax is definitely a feature of your policies! How can such a surtax, which will hit the business district of La Défense in particular, contribute to the attractiveness of the French territory, especially in these times of Brexit? We believe that this systematic use of tax is somewhat nevotic, if you will allow me to express it. With the increase of more than 10 per cent last year and this new increase of 20 per cent, it is a particularly strong wind of fiscal instability that blows for all investors and economic actors. We are therefore insurging ourselves with determination against Amendment No 801; At the very least, if it was not possible for the parliamentary majority to hear our concerns, we would like Mrs Kuster's sub-amendments to be adopted, because they improve the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u534	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u535	As at first reading, with my colleagues Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Christine Hennion and Laurianne Rossi, I am opposed to this increase in the premium zone office tax. On the form, as we have already said, there has been a lack of consultation on the increase of the tax, as on the general trajectory of the financing of the Société du Grand Paris and on the abundance of the State-region plan contract. In substance, as Constance Le Grip pointed out, it is the question of the attractiveness of Île-de-France that is being asked. Jean-Louis Bourlanges and I will vote for the sub-amendments tabled by Mrs Kuster.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u536	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u537	I would like to put in context a debate that may have been a bit brutal at first reading. The term "premium zone" is rather unfortunate; Are there any second-class areas then? But it should be recalled that this proposal came from the report submitted by Gilles Carrez on the resources of the Société du Grand Paris; It is part of a global financing plan, drawn up in consultation with the various actors, communities and companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u538	Oh, no! There was no consultation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u539	Yes, it took place; On the other hand, I readily concede that this is not so true with regard to transfer rights for consideration – DMTO – on which we will return to Article 72e. I understand that some of you are opposed to this measure, but it cannot be said that there has been no consultation or that a comprehensive funding plan has not been presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u540	That's not what we saw!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u541	If we reject the amendments that tend to increase the resources of the Société du Grand Paris, then we will not have a Grand Paris Express!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u542	More and more, more and more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u543	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u544	"Premium zone", indeed, the term is rather unfortunate! Beyond these semantic considerations, we should set ourselves a principle: when we voted for an increase in taxation to finance a project, we do not vote for a further increase, the following year, for the same project which must cost the same thing! If there was an extraordinary novation, we could ask ourselves; But I don't think that's the case. [[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] The Finance Committee will receive, if its members agree, the president of the Société du Grand Paris, who will be able to explain himself. But finally to propose this new increase one year after the first one, after a very limited or even zero consultation in the case of the departments, it is not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u545	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u546	There are still a few elected representatives from Paris in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u547	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u548	When we look at the districts concerned, i.e. the first, second, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth, we can only be surprised: who chose them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u549	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Gilles Carrez!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u550	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] No. You have a problem, and it helps you to rely on a report written by a member of the Republican Group; But then, use all the reports we give! Stop hiding behind Gilles Carrez's report, and assume! We are elected from Paris, and we have the right to speak. There is now desertification; This tax is a problem for entrepreneurs. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] You're targeting the West of Paris... And let's not even talk about the tenth arrondissement! But what is this logic? There is simply no such thing, and it is not because it is a Member of our group who originally tabled this amendment that we all have to agree – it is probably a difference with the Republic on the move, by the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u551	Yes, to the Republicans, the expression is free!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u552	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 802.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u553	It is a matter of deleting a mechanism adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u554	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1026.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u555	It re-establishes the drafting adopted by the National Assembly at first reading concerning the "old parents" clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u556	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 803.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u557	Article 5 quater, adopted by the Senate, is a measure relating to the registration rights of transfers of shares of civil agricultural companies, which is aimed at combating abuses. The amendment tends to change it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u558	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 804.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u559	[[Smile]] He reinstated the removal of the Apparu tax, which had disappeared in the Senate and thus reappeared.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u560	Amendment No 805 of the Finance Committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u561	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 806.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u562	This amendment seeks to remove the requirement that judicial officers' acts be subject to registration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u563	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 807.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u564	It restores the abolition of electricity generation charges through geothermal energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u565	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 808.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u566	It restores the abolition of the tax on seasonal self-employed business activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u567	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 809.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u568	The aim of this amendment is to restore the exemption from the clearance allowance for certain agricultural holdings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u569	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u570	A strictly identical provision, enshrined in the 2019 Finance Act, was invalidated by the Constitutional Council. The increase in the ceiling on compensation received for the strategic forest and timber fund does not seem to us to alter the constitutional council's considerations of the nature of this financial resource. Furthermore, this measure does not seem compatible with the principle of the general interest in the protection of forests; it would weaken the legal framework for combating clearing. That is why the Government has issued an opinion in favour of Senator Nathalie Delattre's amendment to remove these provisions. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u571	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u572	The exemption is very limited, in order to avoid any risk of excessive clearing. Its principle had already been adopted by the National Assembly, but the scheme was drafted in a completely different way. This time, the proceeds of the compensation for which the exemption is provided are allocated under the ceiling, the surplus going to the State; However, this ceiling is well exceeded. So there are many consequences for the state's resources in 2020. Therefore, he is not a budget rider, contrary to what you have just told us, Mr Secretary of State: budgetary balance is affected. I note, moreover, that the Government did not oppose the Senate's exemption from the same compensation for truffle farmers: why make a difference between farmers and truffle farmers? We can therefore, in my view, adopt this amendment; This is the will of a large majority of Members from all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u573	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u574	In memory, the Government has opposed the truffle-making provision – I think it is the third year that I am defeated unanimously, in the Senate, on this provision, which is then censored. So I keep my analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u575	Is the pledge up, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u576	Yes, without enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u577	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 810.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u578	The purpose of this amendment is to restore the abolition of the performance tax levied for the benefit of the Association pour le soutien du théâtre privé – ASTP. I would remind you that if we had taken this step, on which the Senate has returned, it is in part because this tax is levied throughout the national territory, but its product benefits only Parisian theatres. This is very particular: revenue is €6.3 million, of which €1.8 million is from the province; This money is recovered for the benefit of a purely Parisian association. It's a little holdup! I have heard the profession, as well as some government bodies, explaining to us that there is now a desire to make use of the provincial theatres of a part not of this tax, but at least of new budgetary appropriations, in order to restore balance. I take note of this – without enthusiasm, neither do I, to be very clear and very frank. In addition, this provision was to apply only from 2021 onwards, so that everyone could have adapted to the new situation. But I note that it does not reach a consensus – in any case among the Parisian theatres... I will therefore withdraw this amendment, provided that the commitments that have been made with regard to the appropriations amendments, which we will then examine, are fulfilled, and that provincial theatres are finally given more regular subsidies. I also announce in this Chamber that, pursuant to Article 57 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF – I will have a piece and on-the-spot inspection of the ASTP carried out. Indeed, I am sorry to note that its accounts have not been published since 2010, while the grants it receives still amount to some EUR 15 million. Secondly, there is another reason – I make it clear to the member of the Government present here: it was planned, and it is still planned, that the allocation of subsidies – which has been controversial, since we have all seen articles saying that some actors in theatre were receiving much more money than others – should be carried out according to criteria set by decree. But governments – not this one, but all the precedents – have left it to organize this attribution to the rules of procedure of an association, which is particularly singular. The amendment will therefore be withdrawn, provided that the Government commits itself to the credit amendments. But I am already announcing that we will carry out an on-site and on-site check before I leave my duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u579	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u580	I will answer in two points. I undertake, first of all, that the conciliation procedure should finally be opened with a view to drafting the decree defining the criteria for the distribution of this tax. I also confirm to the rapporteur-general that the credit amendments which we will shortly be considering will meet his expectations. For both reasons, I ask him to withdraw his amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u581	Mr Joël Giraud has the floor to support Amendment No. 719 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u582	Being in the same vein as the previous one, it is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u583	The Government's amendment No. 1135 is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u584	Mr Fabrice Brun's amendment No 142 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u585	Request for withdrawal. The abolition of the law in favour of the National Institute of Origin and Quality – INAO – having been rejected at first reading, the amendment is perfectly satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u586	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u587	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u588	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u589	We discussed it at length at first reading, but the demand to maintain this right once again illustrates the political will of the profession to maintain a mechanism that works and gives satisfaction to the actors in the wine sector. This political will displayed by the professionals comes up against a rather incomprehensible administrative logic. The amendment therefore aims to maintain this right in favour of INAO, which still amounts to EUR 7 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u590	Amendment No 441 by Mr Joël Giraud is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u591	Amendment No 811 of the Finance Committee is also a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u592	Amendment No. 1154 of the Government is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u593	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-16-O1105.u594	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further reading of the Finance Bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
