ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, on the involvement in local life and the proximity of public action, after the accelerated procedure has begun (No. 2357, 2401).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u2	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u3	Today and the next few days, the mayors of France are gathered in Paris. Their congress will, as every year, be an important event for dialogue between the State and local and regional authorities. Local elected representatives, starting with mayors, will be able to share their daily lives and the pride they have in carrying out a mission to serve their fellow citizens – but also, I know, the difficulties they encounter every day in the exercise of their elected office. To answer this question, Sébastien Lecornu and I are now in front of you. We are defending a bill that brings concrete solutions closer to the expectations expressed by local elected officials regarding the functions of communal and community elected representatives they perform. We have built it on the basis of our personal experience of local elected officials, through the many trips and meetings we have made together and through the consultations initiated by the Minister responsible for local authorities. Through your parliamentary mandate, you are also confronted with the issue and strongly aware of the problems encountered: during your interventions at hearings, in debates in committee, in the Chamber or in the ministries, you relay in a faithful and real way the constraints that hinder the involvement of our citizens in the exercise of a local mandate. This bill proposes two major levers. First, the Government, without disrupting the institutional stability requested by local elected officials, places the mayor and the municipal elected representative at the heart of local governance systems by ensuring their fair participation, information and support. In this way, we encourage "happy intercommunality" – in the words of the Prime Minister – that which does not oppose the commune to its intercommunality. It is in this spirit that we encourage elected officials to develop a governance pact, make the conference of mayors mandatory, and provide tools for municipal councillors to be more and better informed about community activities. We want to restore local freedoms to mayors so that they can regain a real capacity for action where necessary. I believe that the principle of subsidiarity, as I see it, must enable territorial projects to be developed at the right level, with the most relevant tools and the most appropriate means. Mayors must therefore be able to rely on an intercommunality capable of acting at the service of each of the municipalities that are members of them and of the project that they share. That is why we are defending the idea of delegating a minimum base of competences – chosen, for a large part, by the elected representatives – at inter-municipal level. In this respect, I thank the Committee on Laws, including its chairman, for the balanced outcome that it has achieved. Second, the bill removes certain obstacles to the engagement and re-engagement of local elected officials. I know the pre-electoral period conducive to doubt; I would therefore like to pay tribute to all the mayors who are once again choosing to propose a project for their commune. The survey recently published by the AMF – the Association des mayores de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité – and the CEVIPOF – the Centre de recherches politiques de Sciences Po – reveals that, among them, 48% are candidates for their own succession and 23% remain undecided. The purpose of the bill is to support them by improving the conditions for the discharge of their mandate. We want elected representatives to be able to devote themselves calmly to their task: to do so, they must be able to form themselves, reconcile their mandate with their professional life, be protected and prepare their lives after, whether in the public sphere or in the private sphere. That is the meaning of the measures we are proposing. Finally, the purpose of the bill is to create new vocations. Indeed, in some communes it will be difficult to establish complete lists due to the lack of candidates. These new elected officials will always find in the State an attentive partner to accompany them in carrying out the projects they will carry out in the service of their territory. This is the meaning of the action I am taking, together with Sébastien Lecornu, at the head of my ministry: I have set myself the objective of meeting with you the challenge of cohesion of the territories, starting from the field initiatives promoted by the elected representatives. It is in this spirit that France services houses will facilitate access to public services, that we have worked on the core city action plan and that we are launching the rural agenda, some of which can be translated into concrete terms in the bill. It is also in this spirit that I began the first consultations on the draft law on decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration, known as "3D". This text, which responds to the desire expressed by the President of the Republic, in the aftermath of the major national debate, to open "a new act of decentralization adapted to each territory", will aim at thoroughly renovating the relations between the State and local and regional authorities. Parliamentarians will naturally have their full place in this reflection...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u4	Luckily! We would have been disappointed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u5	... and we will also work with elected associations. I will also visit each region to consult with local elected officials, who will be able to share with me their ideas, the experiments they wish to launch and the successful initiatives they want to see sustainable. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Sébastien Lecornu, I would like to tell you once again: the state and the communities have bound up because they are drawing together the future of our territories. This bill is a new sign of confidence in them by giving greater freedoms and new responsibilities to local communities. It is an ambition that the National Assembly, I believe, will not fail to share.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u6	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u7	Before I elaborate on the various measures in the bill, I would like to say a few words about the method that the Government has followed in its development in recent months. The 96 hours of national debate between the Head of State and the mayors gave the tone of departure; We then consulted the various associations of elected representatives and directly elected representatives; Finally, in a desire to co-build with Parliament, we have resumed some of the Senate work – in particular those of the delegation to the local authorities – as well as some of the proposals emanating from the reports of the National Assembly, met with all the presidents of the parliamentary groups of the Senate and the National Assembly, and worked upstream with the rapporteur and all the deputies who wished to commit themselves to the text. We therefore wish to arrive at a text that is as consensual as possible, focused on the communal bloc and drawing conclusions from the latest laws in order to better adapt to the reality of the territories. As Jacqueline Gourault has just pointed out, the bill on decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration will be introduced in the first half of 2020. The method is therefore clear: there is no need to anticipate certain debates. I hope that this consensus text will be adopted as soon as possible, not only in order to give visibility to the elected representatives, but also because certain measures must come into force as from 1 January 2020 – this is the case of maintaining the allowances of the presidents and vice-presidents of trade unions, for example, or of measures to relax water and sanitation. In addition, the discussion of this text begins in a public session on the same day that the Congress of Mayors begins.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u8	It's done on purpose!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u9	We're not six-week-old rabbits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u10	This is a much-anticipated bill, about which we must collectively show our pragmatism. It aims to respond to three feelings expressed by local elected officials for a long time, and more urgently since the NOTRE law – the new territorial organization of the Republic. The first feeling is that it is more difficult to hold elected office today than a few years ago, because of the burden of constraints, standards and obligations. We are responding to this as a matter of priority with measures of relaxation, starting with the derogation from the 20% rule on unprotected heritage. An amendment by the rapporteur, which we will discuss later, proposes to extend to two other important cases: investments in external fire defence – the Freedom and Territories Group has also tabled an amendment to this effect – and in favour of health centres. Another example is the normative rescript, a real innovation that will finally allow mayors to benefit from a council of prior legality and which will have to be assessed. More generally, we need to put more trust in local elected officials and, above all, give them more freedom. This is an expectation that we are also responding to outside the bill, through non-legislative measures such as raising the threshold for the competition of public procurement from 25,000 to 40,000 euros from 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u11	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u12	But it's not in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u13	I just said... The text also contains simplification measures. In its initial drafting, it made optional certain constraints on municipal and community councils, such as development councils, which was debated: as I said before, it is sometimes difficult to apply on the ground the discourse of freedom that we hold elsewhere... A compromise has therefore been reached in the Law Committee: the development councils will be mentioned in the governance pact and will be binding in the EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – of more than 50,000 inhabitants. The second feeling we must respond to is the feeling of dispossession.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u15	It is here the whole relationship to intercommunality that is questioned around the three essential axes that we know well: its competence, its governance and its scope. As far as governance is concerned, the relationship between the commune and intercommunality needs to be reconsidered. More precisely, we must put the commune, the mayor, at the heart of the intercommunality, and reaffirm that the EPCI are at their service, not the other way round. So we created the governance pact and gave a legal basis to the conference of mayors. However, these tools should not be rigidized in order to give local elected officials flexibility, which is proof of our trust in them. It seems to me that the text resulting from the work in the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Madam Chairperson of the Committee, has reached a good balance by making the governance pact optional – Article 1 lists the main axes that fear to contain this pact – and the conference of mayors mandatory, except when the EPCI office already includes all the mayors of the member communes. With regard to the scope of intercommunality, the text provides for the abolition of the gender revision of the SDCI – departmental schemes for intercommunal cooperation – and offers elected representatives the opportunity to split their community of communes or their community of agglomeration into two or more EPCIs. The competence of the intercommunities, of course the most political subject, has aroused a strong reaction to the Senate and will certainly be addressed on this first day of the Congress of Mayors. I will come back to that more precisely earlier. The third feeling that we must respond to is perhaps newer and more serious: our local elected colleagues need greater protection and support in order to carry out their mandate in good conditions. The section relating to the mayor's police powers is a first response. It contains essential new features relating to the administrative police: the urban planning penalties, directly inspired by the work of former minister Alain Richard, the administrative fines to enable mayors to deal more effectively with all the small problems of everyday life, such as the absence of hedgerow pruning, the wild deposits of bulky people or the illegal occupation that hinders the public road. Let us repeat it to dispel the fears that have arisen here or there: these extensions of power concern only objects, never people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u17	We are also strengthening the protection of the person of the chosen, after the tragic events in Signes this summer. We all have a thought for the memory of the mayor of this commune. I have received a dozen elected victims of physical assaults to talk to them about this and to reflect on the measures we could take – rapporteur Bruno Questel was present. A major step forward is the establishment of a genuine legal and psychological protection for all elected officials and its management by the State for all mayors and deputy communes of less than 3500 inhabitants. We can also wonder why such a decision was not conceived and taken earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u18	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u19	Finally, we must be able to accompany the elected official in his daily life and thank him at the end of his term of office. This is the subject of the training and validation component of the experience. We will propose an authorization by order to authorize the Government to take these measures. Indeed, we have given the task of IGA and IGAS – the General Inspectorate of Administration and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – to draw up a picture of the formation of elected officials. We will forward the mid-term report to you in a few weeks. Of course, I intend to involve parliamentarians and all political parties in the drafting of the order. There is also the question of compensation, for which it has sometimes been difficult to obtain a written return from elected associations. The Senate rapporteurs proposed an interesting alternative to the Government's initial proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u20	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u21	Two philosophies were present, with the Government tending instead towards total freedom and the responsibility of elected officials in this regard. Following a work carried out in consultation with the associations of elected representatives, including the AMF, and the parliamentarians, the Government will propose to you a balancing amendment that allows the freedom originally proposed for the fixing of allowances in municipalities of less than 3500 inhabitants to be articulated with the need to ensure minimum and effective security in the determination of the mayor's allowance. Thus, the following mechanism will be proposed: the mayor will receive at least, by default, the allowance calculated according to the maximum of the current scale; His or her compensation may, by deliberation, be increased to an amount greater than or less than the guaranteed amount, within the limits of the rates increased by the Senate. Also with regard to compensation, it should be recalled that the Government had announced its agreement to maintain compensation for the presidents and vice-presidents of the union on 1 January 2020, dear Jacqueline Gourault. This is done in this text. In terms of day-to-day management, significant advances have been made in travel and child care costs. The Senate adopted an amendment by Senator Arnaud de Belenet to ensure that child care costs are borne by the State in municipalities of less than 3500 inhabitants, compared with 1000 inhabitants initially. I would like to return to the examination of the text in the Senate and then in the National Assembly's Law Committee. The work of the Senate has shown that the most political subject remains that of competence. Many related articles have been voted on. But the keystone of this whole system was a curious article imagined by the Senate's Law Commission, of a curious philosophy, it must be said, since it provided for the neutralisation of the CIF – the coefficient of fiscal integration – in case of restitution of powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u22	Wonderful...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u23	This measure of financial accountability denied the very meaning of intercommunality. The rule was deleted at my request by the senators themselves, who became aware of the problem of system consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u24	And even of his incoherence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u25	The Government had therefore worked with the deputies, in a spirit of responsibility, to find a better drafting, without sweeping Senate proposals, as some might claim. We will have this debate. With regard to water and sanitation, the French, and not just our local elected colleagues, are watching us. They want to be sure that they will have water on the tap tomorrow and the day after, in a context of difficult climate change. Many municipalities need the solidarity of others in order to face the investment wall that awaits them, because some do not have or will no longer have, tomorrow, a source of drinking water. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the Committee on Sustainable Development has taken up this article: the stake is immense! Let us think of the farmers in the dry areas of our country, the last served, after drinking water, but the first to be punished in a system where water leaks would spread. The return to the optional skills for water and sanitation, which the Senate voted on and on which you came back in committee, is therefore not good environmental news. Above all, it represents flexibility in trompe l'oeil for elected officials. Four years after the adoption of the NOTRE Act, interconnection schemes were completed and prices were aligned. The delegation offered real flexibility. It is a great innovation, both in legal and practical terms, especially for the most extensive EPCIs or mountain areas. It allows a mayor to regain control over the price of water, its teams and even the choice of its referents. It is a measure of responsibility, since nothing more than the necessary is required: to prove that the municipality which manages itself will be able to cope with its investments and, above all, that it will not fail in its duty of solidarity with the other communes. I therefore support the drafting adopted in the Committee on Laws, which goes so far as to extend the delegation – which I welcome – to the small unions of communes, which have proved their worth and are popular in rural areas, and to the competence of rainwater management. In addition, I reiterate my commitment to neutralize the ICF from the intercommunalities that would delegate water and sanitation to the municipalities, as IEPCI remains the owner of these skills. You understand that this financial advantage is impossible in a situation of optional or optional jurisdiction, where intercommunality no longer plays any role. It is precisely in the interest of our innovation. With regard to the removal of optional skills, frankly, criticisms about the complexity and lack of readability of the current architecture are based on: optional skills, optional skills, mandatory skills... However, should we delete everything? As a former mayor of Vernon, I have had a mandate marked by the changes of perimeters, the upsurges of skills and dozens of hours in CLECT – local commission to assess the transferred loads. I have also understood that the elected officials, who are preparing to return for a term of office, need stability. Moreover, the abolition of optional powers has not been mentioned as such in the major national debate and is only mentioned in very few letters. Local elected officials want concrete and operational; We are responding to this with our water and sanitation measure. Moreover, in the Committee on Laws, all the groups voted to delete this article. Here again, I will propose a compromise and above all a common sense measure, reducing from three to one the number of optional competences to be exercised by communities of communes and agglomeration communities. This measure ensures true stability by stopping forced integration as envisioned by the NOTRE law: a page turns. Regarding the possibility of transferring optional skills to the EPCI, I understand your proposal, full of common sense: let the municipalities organize themselves as they want. However, we cannot avoid certain practical difficulties. The Government was not the only one who had noticed them, since a large majority of the groups in the National Assembly had pointed out in committee that the Senate drafting had not worked in practice at all. First, with regard to readability, in an EPCI, some municipalities will have jurisdiction in their own right, while others will lose jurisdiction in favour of the EPCI. This aspect can be admitted, but let us not lose our fellow citizens in the battle. Secondly – and this is probably the most important – with regard to governance, if the EPCI exercises competence for 20% of the member communes, will the remaining 80% have the right to vote in the Community Council to influence a decision that does not concern them or more? The subject is not annoyed; I already know he'll be a source of trouble and fear. Again, in a spirit of co-construction, the rapporteur and the La République en marche group propose a compromise amendment which aims to define more precisely the level at which optional equipment or competence can be managed: the municipality or intercommunality. The idea of an à la carte intercommunality is preserved – contrary to what I was able to read this morning in a gazette – but its conditions are correctly written, which is the least of the things. As for the procedure for the restitution of powers, this provision, which can be welcomed in the name of the clarity of the law, will enable the procedures to be codified when municipalities want to recover a transferred competence. I will conclude by highlighting the important contributions of the Law Committee, if its chairman and the rapporteur allow me. With regard to parity, first of all, the lowering of the threshold of the list vote to 500 inhabitants is an important step. This measure will come into effect in 2026, leaving time for elected officials to prepare. It was important that a text on engagement should address the issue of parity, and I would like to thank all the parliamentarians who have been involved in this matter. We will be discussing other amendments that make it possible to move forward on this issue in the governance pact. On the subject of the elected representatives within the company, a subsequent amendment by Sacha Houlié extended the principle of non-discrimination under the Labour Code to employees in terms of hiring, training or dismissal to holders of local elected office, in order to improve the protection of elected employees. The real law thus created will serve as the legal basis applicable before the Labour Council. And then, with regard to freedom, I note the possibility of holding video conferences in EPCI, which was expected. Finally, the Law Commission has come back to an amazing senatorial measure because, it seems to me, it is harmful for rural communes: the list vote blocked in the EPCIs. Some defend rurality in the newspaper but vote for curious amendments. The Law Commission agreed to go back to this bad innovation, which would have gradually transformed intercommunalism into large territorial communities and would have excluded rural elected representatives for the benefit of urban elected representatives. I was astonished that the Senate majority was stumbling into this provision, and I am delighted that all the groups in the National Assembly, unanimously, decided to put an end to this "ruralicide" provision of the Senate – once it is not customary. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The text will continue to be enriched throughout our debates this week to send a strong signal to local elected officials, and I welcome this. We must reach the most balanced and consensual text possible. Thank you all for your contributions. The local elected officials deserve it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u26	I call Mr Bruno Questel, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u27	It is not customary to speak of yourself in this forum, but I would simply like to share with you my immense pride in having been elected mayor of the commune of Grand Bourgtheroulde, where the great national debate was launched, where my father and grandfather were born. I chose, in 2002, to return to live there to exercise the most beautiful mandate, that of mayor. This beautiful mayor's mandate brings us together today. After our fellow senators, we are going to study the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. With this text, we will give the Écoles de France the strength and legitimacy in the exercise of their function, as well as the capacity to act in many areas. We will place the mayor at the heart of local, communal and intercommunal public policies. This beautiful mayorship is the fruit of our history, of our Republic. Those who exercise it have an immeasurable responsibility towards the inhabitants of the commune for which they are responsible. This responsibility is also exercised before the State which knows only the mayor to enforce its current injunctions, which relates to him in order, if necessary, to enforce public order and to take the appropriate measures, which calls upon him to engage in public policies of which only the local, especially municipal, level is perceptible by our fellow citizens. As a guide, the State stands alongside the French and local democratic actors. It must sometimes protect and often recall some of the main principles that arise, either from the very foundations of our Republic, from the contingencies of the moment, or from economic and budgetary imperatives. Last winter, our country experienced one of those episodes that mark history: the phenomenon of yellow vests. This moment in our contemporary history gave rise to the great debate desired by the President of the Republic, which took place for several weeks and had, in our communes, our cantons, our departments and our regions, to give rise to sometimes surprising exchanges, often of common sense. Essentially, the great debate has made it possible to put the daily lives of our citizens at the heart of an immense collective reflection from which our country can only emerge strengthened. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In parallel with the great national debate, the President of the Republic wished to go alone to meet the mayors of France. No less than 96 hours of debates and exchanges took place throughout the national territory, which allowed many mayors to exchange directly, without filter, with the President of the Republic, who had to surprise, beyond partisan and democratic contingencies, by his ability to hold the microphone alone in front of hundreds of ediles to questions that were all more legitimate than each other. In the spirit of the President of the Republic, this major national debate was to lead to a law on local authorities, municipalities and the fundamental role of mayors in the architecture of the Republic. This is the meaning of the text on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, which we will discuss over the next few hours and days. That is the meaning of our action. For decades, mistrust has developed between our compatriots and the political class, all tendencies combined. If only mayors have been able to preserve a form of peaceful relationship with their citizens, it must be borne in mind that in recent years, in many cases, it has not evolved in the right direction. In fact, violence has taken place at the communal level: many mayors have been victims of unacceptable physical violence. Like the minister, I have a thought for Jean-Mathieu Michel, mayor of Signes, who died in the performance of his duties trying to prevent two morons from overstepping the laws of the Republic. Beyond this horrific episode, dozens of local mayors and elected officials are subjected to unacceptable physical or verbal attacks in the performance of their duties, which must be severely condemned by the judiciary. Through the strengthening of functional protection and the creation of mandatory insurance mechanisms, the bill largely meets the needs of the mayors of France. The doubt is no longer allowed: the State is at their side to accompany them and, if necessary, to protect them if they are subjected to violence. The perpetrators of this violence must understand that tomorrow, even more than yesterday, they will be punished, and severely. Beyond the context, which I wanted to retrace, I now turn to the substance of the bill. Through the demands expressed by the French and French, and the exchanges held between the President of the Republic and the mayors of France, we were able to measure how much some salient subjects – often called "the irritants of the law OUR" – deserved to be addressed. In recent years, they have led mayors to believe that their prerogatives have been diluted in an inter-municipal space that has often become very extensive. The delimitation of the territories, not always achieved in the cordial agreement between the local political actors, has sometimes had to be accepted without major exchanges, in particular after the drawing up of the new map of the regions and the redistribution of the cantons. Combined or combined, these reasons had to inevitably cause an earthquake in each territory, but also at the local level. On the basis of this observation, the Government – I would like to pay special tribute to Sébastien Lecornu – has, in recent months, heard from all the actors in municipal life so that everyone feels listened to and understood in their demands. This bill is therefore the one of the mayors of France, whose presence I would like to welcome in the gallery. It will enable us to value those who are committed to local life – mainly municipal life – by strengthening the role of municipalities and mayors within the intercommunities, notably through the drafting of the governance pact and the creation of the conference of mayors, but also by strengthening the police powers of the ediles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u28	All this is theory...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u29	The text also aims to simplify the daily exercise of the powers of the municipality by the mayor and to strengthen the rights of local elected representatives, in particular by taking over the costs of childcare and travel, the upgrading of allowances, the management of sickness stops, the reform of the management of functional protection and the recognition of the competences of the elected representatives by the VAE – validation of the experience acquired. I want to acknowledge the excellent working relationship we have had with the two Senate rapporteurs, Françoise Gatel and Mathieu Darnaud. I am pleased that we have been able to establish mutual listening and respect for our two assemblies, foreshadowing our future work in the Joint Joint Committee. However, I can only regret the tone and reproach expressed by the Speaker of the Senate in an interview published this morning in a specialized magazine: he does not seem to want to admit that MPs would have as much legitimacy as senators to write the law, including when it comes to local authorities, including town halls.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u30	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u31	I hope, therefore, that the progress proposed by the Government during the debates – in particular those mentioned by the Minister and concerning the intercommunality à la carte, the optional powers and the allowances of mayors and elected officials – will be addressed on each of the benches in the light of the real progress they will generate. On the other hand, we will have to go back to several contradictory injunctions, in particular the introduction of blocked lists in the EPCIs without threshold effect, a measure which, once the law is finally adopted, would certainly be denounced as infringing rural life. Over the next few days, we will be debating a few hundred articles, some of the 123 articles studied by the Law Committee having been deleted. The Government's wise wish not to encroach on the scope of the future bill on decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration – the so-called "3D" – has sometimes forced us to give unfavourable opinions on your proposed amendments, ladies and gentlemen. Many of them, however, did not lack common sense, which is a concrete expression of your perfect knowledge of the terrain and the real life of local communities and of the intercommunality, especially of our communes. Whether it is the Governance Pact, the Conference of Mayors or the Development Councils, the Law Committee considered that we should hear the comments made and the choices made by our fellow senators and give priority to common sense, as well as the constant concern for efficiency and the search for territorial fairness. Another subject will inevitably raise the debate in the House: water competence. Many of us support the Government's approach, which combines the concern to protect local freedoms, including municipal and trade union freedoms, with the urgent need, with a major concern for territorial solidarity, to preserve the water resource, to maintain catchments and to pool investments. Finally, with regard to the so-called "à la carte" intercommunality, as our fellow senators outlined at first reading, it is also appropriate that we be pragmatic and that we maintain the initial refusal expressed in the Law Committee to allow each territory to be organized according to current communal agreements or elements of municipal conjuncturality, which could be a pretext to detriculate years of work carried out, on the ground, by the intercommunalities concerned. Many subjects would deserve to be discussed in my remarks; We will have the opportunity to discuss your amendments in the context of defending them. I would like to stress how objective an approach has been taken by all parliamentary groups in our work, and to thank those responsible for the text for each of the groups, including non-registrants. All those who took part in the committee were keen to make objective and well-founded proposals; Although not all could be adopted by the Law Commission, none was without interest. [[Applause and laudative exclamations on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the mayors of France, this bill has been drafted for you, only for you. It will no longer be a matter of speaking of the NOTRE law, but of your law, the "law of yours."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u32	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u33	We all agree that mayors must be placed at the heart of the functioning of our democracy. It is particularly regrettable that it was necessary to wait for the great national debate before the executive realized how the mayors – and more broadly the local and territorial elected representatives – are at the heart of the functioning of our democracy. How can we explain this delay in ignition so that we can finally measure their dedication, but also their discouragement? Part of this is linked to the latest major reforms relating to the territories, which have revealed major dysfunctions – at the forefront of the latest major reforms, we find the NOTRe law and its famous irritants. Between unconsiderably enlarged inter-communal boundaries and ever-increasing transfers of compulsory competences to tax-based inter-communals, between a centralizing state and a government frilosity – for the time being – in terms of decentralization, local and territorial elected officials feel dispossessed, powerless, deconceived, and sometimes challenged, I have already said. There is no love, only evidence of love: the proof of your willingness to give mayors and municipal teams their full place will be judged in the light of the parliamentary debate that we are beginning. The mayors, as we know, remain largely at the top of the ranking of our fellow citizens' preferred elected representatives. However, year after year, the power of action of the elected representatives is diminishing, leading as a corollary to the erosion of trust and consideration to the benefit of more mistrust, mistrust and even – we have seen in recent months – violence. I am thinking in particular of the death of the mayor of Signes last August, because he was opposed to a wild rubble depot. If the mayors are within the range of thanks, they are also within the range of remarks. In addition, their commitment, often time-consuming, is stressful due to uncertainty about the end of the mandate and their reclassification. The Libertés et Territoires Group has repeatedly called for the intermediate bodies, territories and local elected representatives to be taken into account, which are not barriers to change but essential relays, assets in the service of the general interest. During the committee review, you almost finished the text forwarded by the Senate, where it had been profoundly modified, returning regularly to the original version of the bill – sometimes improved, however, it must be recognized, thanks to the action of the rapporteur and the opening of Minister Sébastien Lecornu. We have thus been able to make progress on gender issues and on the limitation of non-professional rental time by online platforms; We also appreciated the fact that the initial measure on development councils could have been amended, as we believe they are necessary spaces for dialogue with citizens. As for him, perhaps the Senate has been too ambitious, changing the nature of the text, we agree. Is this due to the approach of the Congress of Mayors, which is of even greater importance to senators? For far from us the idea of detricting the community integration of our communes: if their integration is made with respect for their identity, the intercommunalities are an opportunity. So, if I understand the philosophy behind them, I personally wonder about the mandatory introduction of mayors' conferences. Even though the bill generally aims at easing, these conferences will be all the more burdensome because, in large rural intercommunalities – especially in the mountains – there is a quorum problem. For example, in Corsica, where there is already a chamber of territories provided for by law to conduct fruitful dialogue when necessary, the state has set up a conference of mayors before the hour which has sometimes turned into a political instrument in the hands of the prefecture to challenge the community of Corsica over its competences – but things can obviously change. Furthermore, in the area of training, the debates in committee have not reassured our group of the arrangements that will be put in place in practice to enable elected representatives to reconvert themselves at the end of their term of office, whether or not they are chosen. More generally, we question the existence of a real strategy for local and regional authorities. First of all, there is this bill, of which you do not want us to change the big balances: it is actually a succession of measures – of course, most of which are very welcome, but which often consist of adjustments to the margin. At the same time, you call for patience in announcing a text on the three Ds: decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration – hoping, as I said in committee, that a fourth D, that of discouragement, does not join, which could happen if this future text does not really carry a strong new act, particularly in terms of political decentralization. Mayors need the state and citizens to trust them, and thus a real shock of decentralization and a real capacity for differentiation. You will not be surprised if our group vigorously defends a new shock of decentralization, which goes towards a far-reaching decentralization, with full but chosen transfers of competences from the state to the communities. For several months, there has been confusion between decentralization and deconcentration, and there is widespread doubt: we are talking about giving the prefects greater powers, which could go as far as the ability to adapt the law. We find this approach highly questionable, if not undemocratic, in a way, because it would be no more or less a matter of giving a form of legislative power to adapt to the administration. I am sorry, but this is not about decentralization; Only from deconcentration pushed to the extreme. What local and territorial elected representatives want is to be able to act calmly, with enhanced political means. That is the whole meaning of the amendment by our colleague François Pupponi, adopted in committee thanks to the benevolence of Minister Sébastien Lecornu, which must be acknowledged. Having become Article 14d, this amendment aims to create a police power of the mayor to prohibit without delay the rental of a dwelling which is manifestly unhealthy, unworthy or dangerous. The purpose of this strong power is to severely punish sleepers and to prevent the rental of such dwellings, thanks to the speed and simplicity of the procedure and its financial implications for the landlord concerned, in particular through the implementation of an administrative penalty. The adoption of this measure has received some publicity in the press, as it responds to an urgent need for our fellow citizens, who do not understand that we cannot effectively fight against sleep merchants. In order to put an end to the actions of these individuals as soon as possible, mayors need powerful, agile and responsive tools. I will also make a parallel with the need, expressed by the mayors of Corsica, to have more means to combat fires effectively, which, as climate change requires, are spreading more and more, and often from the land of undivided properties or without masters. On this subject, on behalf of my group, I am defending a proposal which we will discuss again when we consider the amendments; This subject of general interest is so important that I hope it will be a positive outcome. That is, in two examples, how we can make the territories stronger and more autonomous – and that was the title of the observation report of the Freedom and Territories Group, which contained fifty proposals on the subject. No, community autonomy is not a big word. It does exist in French law – for overseas countries in particular – and that is the rule in the vast majority of European countries. In our report, we already wrote that there was a need to strengthen the accountability of territorial and local elected officials, giving them full and full expertise in the decision-making, implementation and financing of projects. This will also necessarily involve ensuring genuine fiscal autonomy for communities, through the transfer of the local tax base and a genuine freedom to set tax rates by the community: one day it will have to be done. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] As you can see, we therefore call for a comprehensive strategy for our local communities. The text, which we approach with openness and responsibility, is only one of the first fruits – certainly essential. We hope to be able to continue to advance in good intelligence when we look at the bill: we owe it to local and territorial mayors and elected officials who, beyond a mere commitment, often sacrifice their personal interests in the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u34	I should like to inform you that, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of our Rules of Procedure, the Government requests that Articles 7 to 7 bis B, 14 to 14 quinquies and 15 bis B of the Bill, as well as amendments to the Additional Rule after these Articles, be considered on Thursday, 21 November 2019, at twenty-one and thirty hours. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u35	We are beginning to consider the draft law on engagement in local life and the proximity of public action, which had to respond to the demands of the mayors, since, you said, Minister, it is a concrete translation of the great national debate and the 96 hours of exchanges between mayors and the President of the Republic. On that occasion, some mayors had been able to trace their difficulties in carrying out their mandates, at a time when 36 per cent of them had become increasingly difficult to meet the demands of their officials. In fact, there is a crisis of vocations: half of the mayors do not want to represent themselves in the forthcoming elections. You also said that this bill would make it possible to upgrade the communal bloc and put it back at the heart of our democracy, an objective that we share. Indeed, for us, the commune is essential to the democratic life of the country and it is also the level at which the social bond can be maintained and it can be promoted together. In recent years, however, the municipalities have been mistreated by the NOTRE law and major budgetary restrictions, not to mention the reduction in tax revenues: by abolishing the housing tax, your government continues the logic of financial asphyxiation started with the abolition of the business tax. While this text enhances the recognition and strengthening of the rights of elected officials, it gives mayors greater room for action and new powers to enforce their decisions. However, we consider that it does not go far enough, in particular for two reasons: it does not reduce the number of powers necessarily transferred to intercommunities; It does not allow elected representatives the free choice of intercommunal powers, which would have been a positive step towards the re-appropriation of local and municipal issues by elected officials and citizens. In Ariège, at least three municipalities wish to recover the water and sanitation competence, transferred to the intercommunality without their agreement: the villages of Antras, Arrien-en-Bethmale and Le Port. I want to support these municipalities and all those who are mobilized to maintain water management.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u36	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u37	We will work to improve this text in session. We can very well decide that the transfer of water and sanitation competence to intercommunality is optional.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u38	[[Smile]] It's the convergence of struggles!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u39	You will tell me that the law opens up new possibilities for the appropriation of competences through the delegation mechanism. But for us, it does not meet the expectations of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u40	[[Smile]] When the group of La France insoumée defends the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u41	In recent months, the mayors have not been the only ones to raise their discontent: the citizens have also done so, which has been reflected in the yellow vest crisis, which has lasted continuously for more than a year and remains unanswered to date. Unfortunately, I do not see much in this text which would look like a desire to strengthen democracy, particularly at the level of the commune. Yellow vests claim more democracy. A sociological study of the movement, entitled Yellow Vif, shows that their expectations vis-à-vis their elected officials are strong. The yellow vests consider, first, that elected officials should raise and integrate the concerns of the field into political actions and, second, that they should report on their activities and that the elected function should be based on revocative mandates. As I said in the Committee on Laws, our amendments in connection with local democracy have been found inadmissible because they have no direct connection with the subject. Our amendments were intended, for example, to guarantee citizen control over the management of local public services or to give citizens the opportunity to organise citizen voting. They met strong expectations of the population and had their full place in the text. For democracy, the priority is for local elected officials to have significant room for manoeuvre in their decisions. They must be able to carry out their mandates and carry out the tasks for which they are responsible in complete serenity and, above all, without being attacked. They must have freedom of choice and action, but above all they must have the means to implement their policies. It is only under these conditions that they will be able to report to the citizens who, in the end, will be able to judge objectively the effectiveness of their actions. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We regret that no part of your bill provides for strengthening the powers of citizens to encourage them to engage in local life. For us, the bill misses the democratic turn that it should have taken and misses much of its objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u42	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u43	For a few more hours, there is a remarkable exhibition in our assembly dedicated to the French Revolution. It illustrates the extent to which the revolutionary work still finds its intellectual relevance in the debates that speed up our democratic life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u44	It's true she's very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u45	Absolutely. Whatever your opinions and preferences in this area, no one in this Chamber can deny the decisive action of our predecessors: Pétion de Villeneuve, Brissot, Robespierre or Saint-Just, girondins or Jacobins. It is to these young legislators that we owe the Republic, built on three essential pillars: the nation, the department and the commune. It is through these pillars that the sovereignty of the people is expressed. Unfortunately, to our great regret, these foundations have all too often been forgotten by the successive majorities in power. In the last decade or so, some texts have considerably aggravated the competition of the territories. These reforms have led to an unprecedented institutional upheaval that has increased inequalities between our territories and called into question the constitutional principles of unity and indivisibility of the Republic. In the face of such an institutional earthquake, it would have been wiser to engage in a genuine national debate, but the different governments preferred to precipitate the examination of reforms elaborated without consultation and without long-term vision. The NOTRE law is very emblematic of these drifts; It is now very difficult to find defenders of a text that has so hard hit our municipalities. The running Republic was no exception since during the first two years of the quinquennium, local elected officials were simply ignored by the presidential majority. Its sudden awakening is still a merit of the yellow vest movement, which, in its expression, reaffirmed the citizens' ambitions of popular sovereignty, while the executive power had only one objective in mind: the enlargement of the technostructure. The President of the Republic and the Government have suddenly remembered that the mayor is still the preferred political figure of the French and the central character of our democratic life. On the form, the examination of this text is part of a very special political calendar, on the eve of the Congress of Mayors and a few months before the municipal elections. In this way, the Government is conducting a seduction operation that does not deceive anyone. In substance, this text will not be a true institutional big bang of intercommunality. He focused on giving mayors a greater place, without correcting the drifts and irritants of the NOTRE law. I am thinking here of the decline in the committee on water and sanitation skills, when the Senate had legitimately proceeded to the end of the compulsory transfer of these powers to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration. I am also thinking of the abolition of the possibility of transferring to mayors the power to close a drinking supply, whereas this power would enable them to fight effectively and reactively against this scourge which affects our cities and sometimes makes the daily lives of the residents unbearable. Finally, I am thinking of the increase in the allowances of the elected representatives, which will be made on the budget of the commune, suggesting that the ill-being of local elected officials is primarily based on financial considerations, whereas they are in fact suffering from the disappearance of public services in their territories. Fortunately, mayors have the republican ideal in their bodies. They act with devotion to the contact of the populations, with the aim of guaranteeing national harmony. We believe it deeply and that is why, for many years, we have been demanding a very strong identity attachment to the communes, which are rooted in our institutional heritage. The municipalities represent the oldest level of community, the best identified by our fellow citizens and the basic level of proximity and local democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This will be our course of action on this text: the defence of popular sovereignty and the levels that flow directly from it, i.e. the commune, the department and the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u46	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u47	No representative of this country escapes the crisis of confidence that we are going through: neither the parliamentarians we are, nor the trade unionists, nor even the local elected officials, among whom are the mayors. Our duty is to protect the unwavering and close link between the mayors, whose disarray is great, and the citizens. In this new public space, there is no conflict of legitimacy between us, no competition to know who would have the most: parliamentarians and mayors each have their legitimacy, drawn from an election. This is the case with our majority. We meditated on her, we called her uprooted or uncultivated in local politics. That's not the case. Look at it: it is made up of local elected representatives, including former mayors, economic actors who animate our territories, and community leaders who make them live. Judge it: it is she who supports the draft law resulting from the 96 hours of the great national debate during which the President of the Republic travelled France, going to meet the mayors to listen to them; It is she who intends to respond to one of the difficulties of the elected ones who bears a name, the NOTRe law. The main effect of this was to cause an epidemic of loss of confidence. Local elected officials have discouraged themselves; the mayors, and by perspiration, the entire population of the villages, felt abandoned. In response, the law commitment and proximity must restore trust. By extension, this renewed hope will resonate with the inhabitants of our communes; That is the meaning of the provisions that we propose to examine. Thus, we will give mayors their full place in the intercommunality: the governance pact will be an optional tool in their hands; The conference of mayors, which is mandatory, will be called upon to become a privileged space for dialogue between mayors and representatives of the intercommunality. We also give freedom to elected officials who would like to review the perimeters in which they have been inserted since 2015. We relax the exercise of skills without making it the big night. For ecological reasons, we believe that the exercise of water and sanitation skills must remain community-based, the appropriate level. At the same time, for reasons of flexibility and freedom, we want to introduce the neutralisation of the optional competences which must be taken by the EPCIs. We are creating EPCI à la carte through intra-Community differentiation which we can illustrate in our discussions. We are relaxing the tourism competence for which the exercise can be brought as close as possible to the citizens who request it. We believe, however, that the principle of freedom must be combined with that of territorial solidarity. That is why we give mayors the power to do, which is expressed by new police prerogatives. Drink outlets may, upon notice of a new municipal commission, be closed subject to certain procedural guarantees. Infringements of town planning permits or illegal occupation of the public domain will be punished by a daily fine until they are terminated. We are building a local democracy where women and men have every place, without being competitors. The lowering of the threshold of the joint list vote in communes with more than 500 inhabitants is the most notable expression of this. In this regard, I accept all the criticisms of those who tell us that this is impossible. The same people told us the same thing in 2013, when we had already lowered that threshold. Here we establish a statute for the elected one: mayors will be given functional protection by the State for small communes; Dependent care expenses will be reimbursed; the right to training will be greatly strengthened after an order has been made; the allowances of elected officials will increase. Without being controversial, I am astonished by the words of President Larcher, who does not seem to be aware of the fact that the Assembly's Committee on Laws voted in accordance with the Senate version of the text. In conclusion, I will share with you the reflection of the remarkable president of an EPCI, the community of communes of the Haut-Poitou. Professor of a rural school and mayor of a commune that has become a new commune, he says: "The community is to do to many what cannot be done alone. These words, of great rationality, as are often the words of local elected officials, must shed light on our work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The law of engagement and proximity must thus correct the pitfalls of the NOTRe law in order for the local elected representatives to make this law theirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u48	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u49	Following the presentation of this text in the Council of Ministers in July, and the initiation of the accelerated procedure for its consideration in the Senate in October, we are finally, at the beginning of the week of the Congress of Mayors, studying this text in the most mediaful assembly of our Parliament. Is that a coincidence? We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u50	What a coincidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u51	There was more assistance in the Senate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u52	However, the title of the bill, "engagement in local life and proximity to public action", hides the Government's willingness to kick on many issues to postpone them to a later date, after the elections, and to incorporate them into a bill, which we are told is more important, on decentralization. It is regrettable that we cannot have this debate precisely at the time of the most media event for the organization of communities in France: the Congress of Mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u53	You see evil everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u54	In any event, we will be happy to study small adaptations, some of which are welcome. We will also satisfy ourselves with this will – at least displayed, at first – to be part of a Tocquevilian philosophy, as the minister has often said in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u55	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u56	The aim is to prevent democracy from turning to individualism and, through the responsibility of local elected representatives, to promote the acceptance and understanding of our democratic system by voters from the territories. Far from constituting a great evening of decentralization, this text covers only a few adjustments. It is regrettable that we do not have the courage together to go back to the mistakes of the NOTRE law, which we all agree to recognize. I am thinking in particular of the competence of water and sanitation, about which this mandate turns into a repeat comic. This is indeed the third time that we have addressed the subject of the rules applicable to this competence, and our Assembly is about to vote on the third different rule in three years. This subject is agitated at a particular time, but its study is also based on an erroneous starting assumption: the alleged need to raise this competence to the intercommunal level by affirming that, in some territories, the existence of water stress requires it to do so. However, a study of maps shows that you have visibly overlaid the bad: it is rarely in territories suffering from water stress that competence is assumed at the communal level, but on the contrary in territories not experiencing water management problems. This allows for more responsive management and closer to citizens, at a lower cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u58	Where difficulties arise and solidarity is needed, it already exists, as local elected officials are responsible and have often anticipated what the Government is trying to impose on them. In this text, the Republican Group will respect a guiding principle: not to force local elected officials and mayors further, but rather to respect their freedom and responsibility. In this regard, we do not understand the desire to maintain the mandatory nature of the conference of mayors. Of course, this body may be necessary and useful, but we believe that its creation could be optional and left to the sagacity and freedom of local elected officials. On other points, the Law Commission deconstructed some of the elements of Senate work that were welcome. I am thinking of the removal of optional powers – even though I have noticed, Minister, that you have tabled amendments on this subject. It would be necessary to deepen this question further and to consider the relevance of retaining optional competences at the present time, in the light of developments in intercommunality. This week of debates will allow us to discuss other elements that may seem of lesser importance, such as the possibility of free land transfers, or to mention important subjects of tourism competence, for example. I will conclude by referring to the sensitive issue of compensation for local elected officials. On this subject, let us avoid the pass-by which would be, by giving more freedom to local elected officials, to confer on them a responsibility that is not theirs: they are responsible for their action, not for their status. The responsibility for their status is ours. We must not send them back the responsibility to define – that is one of the government's amendments, Mr.Minister – the level of their compensation. While they must be given flexibility in certain areas, it is not their responsibility to define their status. It is up to us to work on it, in connection with the deepening of a reflection on the concept of State agent exercised by the mayors. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, we will not be naive: we will vote for what is in line with our philosophy of freedom and responsibility, but we will also pay close attention to certain points which seem to us to contradict these convictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u59	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u60	First of all, I wanted to thank the minister and all of our colleagues for the constructive discussions we have had in recent weeks, particularly during the examination of the text in the Committee on Laws. The Bill of Commitment and Proximity defines a global ambition for our communes, which was very expected at the local level. The aim is to remove some irritants from the NOTRE law and to improve the governance of the intercommunities, in particular by strengthening the place of mayors. It is also necessary to facilitate their daily lives in order to give them a better recognition of their commitment to our citizens. The Senate has substantially amended the original text, enriching it with more than eighty-five additional articles. Although some contributions are particularly interesting, we could not endorse measures to unblock the intercommunal fact, both within and within its scope. That is why, during the debate in the Committee on Laws, we have come back to several of these articles. Some of our colleagues in this chamber have deplored the fact that the Law Commission has undermined the work of the Senate. That's not true. Many Senate amendments, which go in the right direction, were adopted during the debate in the Senate: this is the case, for example, of the work done on allowances for mayors of municipalities with less than 3500 inhabitants. I am also pleased that the Government has planned to introduce an amendment that seems to be relatively balanced. But the bill is absolutely not meant to be the big night of the division of powers. Communities are asking for stability, from this point of view. On the other hand, we are also defending intercommunality because it is the stage of the ecological transition on a daily basis, in a concrete way, for all our citizens. This is the level at which waste treatment policy, transport policy and water management policy are organised – a key issue in the 21st century. It is also the level at which urban policy and housing are implemented. We therefore assume that we have removed certain provisions voted in the Senate which allowed the transfer of certain competences to the map, disconnected the urban preemption right of the PLUI, reduced inter-municipal representation to the departmental commission for inter-municipal cooperation, or removed the eventual transfer of water and sanitation skills, despite the relaxations voted by the majority last year and the new advances proposed in the bill. We say this forcefully: undoing the intercommunal fact means undoing the ecological transition in action, on the ground, as close as possible to the French. The bill has its origins in finding the discomfort of many mayors in their relations with their EPCI. With this text, they will return to a more important place. In particular, they will be better involved in the functioning of inter-communities, through the governance pact and the conference of mayors. In this regard, the MODEM Group proposes that the conference of mayors should be able to express opinions and wishes which should be brought to the attention of all the municipal councils of the EPCl. In addition, our group is pleased that this law is an opportunity to highlight the commitment of local elected officials working with the French abroad, who will now be called "local elected representatives of the French abroad". The committee adopted several amendments strengthening their status; Our group will table another in a public session. Finally, I wanted to stress the ambitions of the text aimed at fostering local engagement. Raising the rate of allowances is a good thing because the dedication of elected officials must be better recognized. This text will, I hope, lead to new vocations among our fellow citizens. Efforts have also been made, through this text, to allow a better reconciliation of working life with the exercise of a mandate. That is the meaning of an amendment by our group which was adopted in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The expectations with regard to the Order on the formation of elected officials are very strong, as the inquiries on this subject have been numerous; They will have to live up to the commitment of our elected representatives on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u61	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u62	With the Bill of Engagement and Proximity, the Government wishes to re-establish a relationship of trust with the mayors. We can only welcome this, particularly in view of the action they are taking on a daily basis, in all the territories, for the Republic. However, it seems to me that the mayors were somewhat weakened by the measures you implemented at the beginning of the quinquennium. First, the reduction in the number of assisted contracts significantly affected small municipalities; This is particularly the case for those with less than 1000 inhabitants, who account for 72% of the communes in France – in my department, Tarn-et-Garonne, the number of contract creations assisted has thus increased from 2200 per year in the years 2014 to 2016, to 380 in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u63	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u64	I am also thinking of the reduction in individualised housing subsidies, the APLs, which have had an impact on the economic model of social housing. Finally, I am thinking of the more recent announcement of the closure of cash – in Tarn-et-Garonne, again, eight of the nine EPCIs signed a motion asking that these cash flows not be closed. Minister, Minister, I believe you are sincere in your efforts to restore confidence with the mayors. But I would like to avoid the pitfall of double speech: words that would be different from the actions that will follow. The approach you are undertaking is beneficial, even if it does not go to the end on all subjects. Indeed, for the past fifteen years, we have been working collectively, without saying it, on the place and role of the communes. Two models oppose each other without any government having really resolved this issue. Or it is considered that the municipality is the pillar of our Republic; In this case, the EPCI results from a voluntary pooling approach for the implementation of certain projects decided upon and carried out by the mayors. Either a territorial optimisation of means is adopted; In this case, I have the feeling that the commune is relegated to the background for certain achievements, including those of everyday life, which leads to the misunderstanding of our fellow citizens. Personally, I find that the first model is the best, but I readily acknowledge that it is not unanimous, including in my group. All opinion polls show that the mayor is the French's favourite. I believe that they must be heard and that the commune and its mayor must regain a leading role. With this in mind, I welcome the decision of the Law Committee to abolish the list vote for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the EPCI, which gives a role to the mayors of the municipalities that are members of the EPCI. I also welcome the governance pact and the conference of mayors, which, articulated together, will put mayors at the heart of the EPCIs. I believe that this provision will help to improve the readability of the objectives pursued by the EPCI on mandate. I also welcome the clarification of the text on the topic of water and sanitation, although we will propose to go further. Finally, I welcome the measure concerning childcare costs. In this regard, minister, minister, I invite you not to be fooled by Bercy, whose concern you know is always to recover from the agent in the caisses. The reimbursement you wish to make for the municipalities should not be paid from the DGF, the overall operating allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u65	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u66	This would be tantamount to charging the municipalities themselves all the costs of childcare; I count on your vigilance to ensure that this does not happen. For my part, with my colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group, I will defend several amendments, some of which result from a consultation I launched with the 800 or so elected members of my constituency – 113 of them responded and about 100 participated in the three meetings on this bill. The question of validation of experience has been raised on several occasions. Being mayor, assistant or municipal councillor puts in place projects that affect labour law or contract law, for example. At the end of the mandate, however, no real validation of experience is possible. With regard to the representation of small municipalities in the EPCIs, I hope that each municipality will have at least two representatives, otherwise the mayors will eventually exhaust themselves by attending all these meetings. With regard to the role of the mayors' judicial police officer, I propose that, within three months of the renewal of the municipal councils, each court of general jurisdiction should hold a meeting in the department under its jurisdiction to expose the mayors to the scope of the exercise of their police power and the manner in which they may exercise that power. I have already mentioned this proposal with the Minister. Over the years, the state has reduced its support for mayors. As a result, the transmission of documents is increasingly being billed to the municipalities. I therefore hope that you will act on a principle of free transmission of these communications. I am well aware that such a measure is not entirely within the scope of the law; However, as this text allows us to address this issue, I would like us to discuss it. I come to a proposal that may be a bit demagogic – I recognise it – but which I care about. I do not know what fate the Government will reserve for the ENA – the National School of Administration – but I hope, for my part, that each student will have to carry out an internship of at least one month in the town hall of a commune of less than 3500 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u67	That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u68	[[Smile]] Favourable opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u69	He will thus see the full extent of the action of the mayors. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches as well as on several LT benches]] In general, we will have to respond to the growing frustration of mayors, who have become pointers more than actors. I explain to myself: often, when their citizens come to expose them to a problem, they no longer appear as the solution but as the person able to indicate to them the competent service that should be contacted; This is true of many small things in everyday life, and we would benefit, thanks to this text, from correcting this trend.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u70	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u71	I think you will understand that I do not ignore the incidents that have emancipated the weekend, especially in the square of Italy. While popular movements and citizens' demands are legitimate, what is currently happening in France is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u72	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u74	The demands derail until they question the very person of the President of the Republic and our institutions. The Republican order is damaged, even if the security forces are on the rendezvous. How can we not be shocked that firefighters are taken to the point of being forced to step back under the protection of CRS? Parliament should be seized of this issue, in parallel with a social conference requested by some of our colleagues: Jean-Christophe Lagarde, Patrick Mignola and Hervé Marseille. The situation is very serious, you know. You said yourself, minister, in an interview in Le Point, that the crisis was not behind us, but in front of us. I can only agree with you on this point, especially since you have lived in the front line of the great national debate. This afternoon, you are introducing a bill that is supposed to meet the local expectations expressed in the great national debate, in which I participated. In the current crisis, the weakening of the parliamentary role may have added to the difficulties. I have always felt that a parliamentarian is a true sentinel of territory, a moderator, a confidant, a knowing, a councillor – in short, an entity with a human dimension that can be contacted by everyone, whether by elected officials, by associations, by business leaders or by citizens. For eighteen years of parliamentary life, I have travelled 7,000 kilometres a month, being the only member of the Lozère department; 8000 files are opened in my permanence, for a population of 76,000. I don't give in to any of the prefects, central, regional and departmental administrations. I measure every day the gap that has widened between the institutions, the French administration and the citizens – the defender of rights clearly denounced it recently. As far as institutions are concerned, everything is now too complex. Deconcentration and decentralization have, in a way, become enemy sisters who oppose each other. To go further, I ask you this question, a little brutal: who really exercises power, today, in France? You're on the bench of ministers, and I'm a member of the national representation. How many times have I heard after an amendment or a question was tabled: "What does Bercy think? This is unacceptable in a country that wants to be a democratic, representative and decentralized Republic. You can propose all the texts you want, the French evil comes from the fact that the political power has abandoned the fight against the French administration. We are in a false decentralization, where the simple basic elected person tends, over time, the hand to the state to support himself or to obtain a particular authorization. Mayors are subcontractors – not to say substitutes – of the state apparatus. To this is added the complexity of our institutional millefeuille. I do not budge my pleasure to present it to you: 37,500 historic communes; 1500 new municipalities; 3000 SIVU – single-purpose intercommunal trade unions; 2000 SIVOM – multi-purpose inter-communal trade unions; many countries; PETRs – poles of rural and territorial balance; mixed trade unions; not to mention 101 departments; departmental agreements; departmental structures such as SIDS – departmental fire and rescue services; public and para-public associations; the XXL regions. We have created a coat of arlequin, which conceals an administrative millefeuille as well as authoritarian and massive declines of endowments, without taking into account any territorial reality or any basin of life. Mayors' uneasiness is deep. It's been too long since I heard a mayor say he was listened to and got satisfactory answers from the administration! How do you want a citizen or an elected official to survive today, especially since the administrative courts are involved in complexity by adding a right to the law? To crown the whole, the MAPTAM law – the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of the metropolises – and the NOTRE law came to create a real upheaval: large cantons that no longer correspond to basins of life, large "intercos" with a minimum of 5000 inhabitants, forcing some elected ones to make two hours of road – which they no longer do, moreover – and large regions, to the number of thirteen instead of twenty-six. I tell you firmly: France has never needed these great things to be a great country. On the other hand, it has always needed its local elected representatives; It is not for nothing that they are the most popular political figures. How can we restore a French identity to our citizens if the municipality, which has been its marker since the Revolution, is no longer considered? Our commune is what binds us to France, it is the cement of our fraternity. We grow up there, we learn the life of the city, we meet our friends there. Faced with this challenge, the State has neither the vocation nor the means to provide an effective response. Do not see here any opposition between local elected officials and the state: I am talking about a lost complementarity, a community of destiny to be repaired. In 2017, state allocations were more than €11 billion lower than they were three years earlier. This has led to an increase in local taxation, which has led to the transfer of tax unpopularity from the state to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u75	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u76	I will venture to say that decentralization is today a decoy. The citizen no longer knows who the municipality, the "interco", the department or the region has any jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u77	It's fog!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u78	The evils of society are there. When a measure is not understood, when an organization is inadequate, the social body rejects it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u79	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u80	That's what we're living, that's what you're living. We're within range of slaps, and it's not over. The abuses against the permanences of Members of the La République group on the move are not due to chance. [[Smile]] Having said that, minister, minister, I recognize your involvement and your willingness to erase the irritants of the NOTRE Act. I will now limit my speech to this aspect, which is certainly not a big evening but which, according to the expression of our colleague André Chassaigne, foresees "small mornings" that can actually improve the daily lives of elected officials – he and I fly together every Monday, creating links and a certain proximity in terms of mountains and rural areas. I recognize a desire for dialogue, which I can attest to. I would like to thank you and your two colleagues, Mrs Léa Roussarie and Mr David Carmier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u81	[[Smile]] Oh! Quoted in the proceedings of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u82	For a month now, Minister, the interaction with your office has been permanent, and you have shown in the law commission your willingness to engage in dialogue. I would like to associate myself with my thanks to Mrs Gourault, who always has the desire to answer our questions in the most concrete way. We have had the opportunity to discuss with two ministers on very concrete actions. We have worked a lot on this text, with my colleague Pascal Brindeau and all the members of the IDU group, Action and Independents. We welcome many provisions of the bill: you allow local elected officials to agree on the day-to-day functioning of the EPCI, you simplify the operation of the municipal council, you strengthen the mayor's police powers and you create welcome aids to facilitate the daily exercise of the local mandate. The objective of rationalisation with the full coverage of the territory by the "intercos" is almost achieved: no commune is outside an intercommunality, and it is not a question of calling into question this, even if some exceptions to the rule of 5000 inhabitants would be useful, especially in rural and mountain areas. On the other hand, the modalities need to be reviewed. Our guiding thread must be this: intercommunality remains positive as long as it is a support; it becomes negative when it is experienced as a constraint. However, the local elected representatives live intercommunality as a path full of obstacles. We must find balance by maintaining the raison d'être of the communes. I am convinced that we must proceed in a number of ways, in particular by putting an end to authoritarian rapprochements and by introducing flexibility in the functioning of intercommunities: within a predefined framework, each mayor must be able to organize his community at best; within relevant boundaries, a contractual margin belongs to the elected representatives. I know these intentions are shared. We hope that the mayor's administrative police powers will be further increased, in the context of a fair articulation and information with the judicial police powers. We also believe that the issue of compensation is not fully resolved. How will the smallest municipalities ensure this new financial burden? Newly elected mayors will be placed in a more than delicate position when they have to decide whether or not to increase their compensation. The specific problem of municipalities whose population doubles or triples at certain times of the year remains complete. We will defend amendments in an attempt to address these difficulties. The question of the political chart is not a small question. That should be the end of the matter. With regard to the administrative fines imposed by the mayor, we must ensure that the same infringement is not too different from one territory to another. We stress the centrality of the formation of local elected officials. We have heard your willingness to proceed by order, after consultation of the actors concerned, but let me stress two points: the importance of initial training and the danger of mixing genders. Indeed, we hear about training provided by the CNFPT, the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service; In my view, however, it is not possible for the same body to be in charge of training for elected officials and officials. That point should be clarified. The issue of budget transfers related to competency changes must be addressed in all its complexity. We will defend several amendments on this subject, so that the transfer of powers does not lead to unjustified enrichment or impoverishment. With regard to article 23 bis and the establishment of territorial ombudsmen, a framework must be found to ensure a good link between them and the Defender of Rights. It would be a good gesture to reduce the term of office of an elected official to twelve years. The same applies to the possibility for a former elected official to participate in a trade union. To take up a Chinese proverb, the old wise man said: "The young man walks faster than the old man, but the old man knows the road. » Why deprive oneself of competence? Legal support for mayors, with the possibility for mayors to refer a new matter of law to the President of TA – the administrative court – would be useful. Last but not least, we call for the emergence of a culture of accompaniment in the administration, instead of a culture of control. But this would be a cultural revolution in our country, to which no decision-maker is really ready. However, the administrative rescript is a good measure. Finally, when creating a new commune, prior information of the population would be useful. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, Minister, we are moving slowly, but we are doing a useful job. My group will accompany you in this work and during this long parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u83	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u84	The debate already makes it clearer. As has already been said, for years we have seen successive declines in endowments, constant transfers of powers and widespread territorial disorganization. Communities, especially municipalities, have suffered a fire from bad decisions that have weakened them. The financial strangulation of the municipalities has often stifled the possibilities of building at local level. This budgetary pressure has often destroyed the fundamental link between citizens and their communes – a link that is clearly derived from the strong principle of sovereignty inherited from 1789, which gave a great deal of power to the communes and laid the foundations of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u85	There is no communal sovereignty, there is only national sovereignty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u86	The principle of sovereignty is expressed in the framework of the commune. It's the first step, I think.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u87	The Republic is one and indivisible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u88	Between 2014 and 2017 alone, state financial assistance to communities fell, alas, by 11.2 billion euros. For example, in five years, my city, Montreuil, has lost 40 million euros in endowments. In Bagnolet, another commune in my constituency, which suffers from the status of the most indebted city of France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u89	Isn't the most indebted city Levallois-Perret?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u90	...the flat-rate allocation has fallen by EUR 200000 again this year. To add to financial suffocation, each year new standards and competencies are transferred, often without any funding following. The best proof of this is the State's failure to pay the allocations for the full payment of the RSA – the income of active solidarity – particularly in Seine-Saint-Denis, a department where, as a result of the social crisis, the number of beneficiaries increases year after year. In addition, the abolition of the housing tax has thrown mayors and municipal councils into many uncertainties, while the reign of metropolises and intercommunalities continues to be popular, often without precautions. These, in my view, are as many attacks on free administration and financial autonomy, which are not just theoretical. As far as the substance of the text is concerned, I shall begin by lamenting the back steps of the Assembly's Law Committee in relation to the Senate text. You have confirmed the mandatory transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes and agglomeration communities. But water does not know the administrative boundaries that you set up: it has its own geography, that of the municipality, and you dry it up rather than giving it the levers essential to its local public interest. For the rest, why not extend the mayor's police powers, but by what means, given the declines in the overall operating budget, which I have just mentioned? Why not the restoration of the mayor's normal powers with regard to the right of preemption, but why not give the communes real power with regard to the development of the PLUI? On the democratic side, I would like to express some reservations, or at least some expectations – hoping that the debate will enrich the text. I am referring here to the continuing expansion of public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation, which often fuel inequalities, or to the Government's desire to reduce the number of elected officials. I would remind you that the permanent questioning of our territorial organization inherited from the Revolution often only leads to the competition of the territories, putting a great blur for both citizens and local elected representatives. The doctrine of our group remains defined by the matrix of the unity of the Republic and its 36,000 communes, which form the basis of it. This base, I must say, has found resonance in the movement of the yellow vests, which has often expressed the desire for equality throughout the territory and was the flag of those who considered, especially in the province, that their commune was in a situation of total inequality compared to other communes. Since 17 November 2018 – we have just celebrated the first anniversary – this movement has expressed a deep aspiration for sociability, solidarity, socialization, through concrete demands that must inspire us up to this debate. Among their proposals, we could experiment with the implementation in our communes of referendums of citizens' initiative, so that the people do not remain confined in a passive role between two elections but can actually exercise their full sovereignty. The referendum of citizens' initiative, or RIC, in its local version, would benefit from being a pivot of proximity. It could also be an opportunity to experiment with the right to remove elected officials, to repeal measures that would not be supported by our fellow citizens or even to propose them. All these proposals, alas! We do not have enough of them, but the amendments we propose will enrich the text. It would be a response to this strong aspiration to local democracy, to the desire to set up ethical charters for elected officials. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In conclusion, commitment and proximity will remain words without concrete means to enable our communities to implement them and without new rights that allow our fellow citizens to co-build local projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u91	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u92	I will talk about rural areas, or rather rural areas, which have had a strong attraction for urban residents for several decades. These migrations are sometimes part of the quest for a better living environment. They are also constrained: out of economic necessity, urban people take refuge in the countryside, accentuating the impoverishment of rural areas. In their diversity, rural people have new demands for their quality of life. They always address the issues of access to services, in the traditional fields – school, health, post – but also in the fields of sport, culture, the environment, urban planning, digital technology. In the most fragile territories, many political, economic or associative actors refuse the fatality of the decline, but it is rare for an economic or cultural initiative to succeed when it is not supported or supported by the community, especially the communal and increasingly intercommunal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u93	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u94	Sometimes fractures hinder the necessary dialogue between all components of rural society. They are based, in particular, on conflicts of practice. For some, the primary purpose of the campaign would be essentially productive, with the land being almost exclusively devoted to agriculture, but they did not reject diversification – short chains, organic production, farm tourism. For others, the campaign should be sanctified and clean of all nuisances, to the detriment of its productive and nourishing function. These conflicts must be taken into account in order to overcome blockages, propel new solidarity by encouraging dialogue and collective action. It is therefore essential to develop local democratic life, by diversifying the composition of municipal councils but also by creating new democratic spaces. That is why this bill must address the problems caused by the majority vote by introducing proportional voting for all the communes, I am all saying. However, I propose that this method of voting leave the possibility of making up incomplete lists in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. The aim is both to create parity, without excluding the smallest communes, and to promote the representation of all the components of society, which is not permitted by the majority voting system with a mix or by the requirement of complete lists which are sometimes difficult to form. Thus, local democratic life will be based less on controversies around people and their supposed skills but more on debates about municipal projects carried out by competing lists. Moreover, in small communes, the current voting system excludes part of the social body from democratic representation: not only too often women, but also some minority opinions from new residents. This situation encourages the exacerbation of conflicts and feeds rivalries exacerbated by a feeling of rejection. In order to realize the commitment to local life and the proximity of public action, I also propose strong signs to develop citizen participation and not to remain in the only representative democracy:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u95	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u96	... the possibility of setting up village councils in order to develop the direct participation of the inhabitants in local life, especially in the communes split between a town and many scattered and sometimes remote places of life;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u97	Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u98	... the possibility of forming councils of associations, useful to strengthen and institutionalize the dialogue between elected representatives and local associations, decisive to ensure the dynamism of our communes; the establishment of local advisory committees competent in the field of services to the public, with the aim, again, of encouraging the development of concrete participatory approaches on this increasingly sensitive issue of services to the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Of course, I have missed time to submit these innovative proposals to the Committee on Laws and I would ask its chairman, its rapporteur and all its members to apologize. I hope, however, that they will be taken into account here in a spirit of openness. Let us make sure that this bill is not just a broom car repairing institutional developments led to the hussard! Let's make it possible for it to open up new prospects in terms of local democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u101	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u102	On 14 December 1789, the Constituent Assembly passed the law establishing the communes; their perimeter is based on that of the parishes, and thus the smallest administrative entities of France are born. From 1789 to 2019, more than two hundred years passed, and the main objectives pursued at the time and those pursued by the legislation that now brings us together in this Chamber are similar in many respects: simplification of the administrative map to facilitate the daily administration of the territories; decentralization of powers entrusted to elected officials; free administration of local authorities. These pillars enlighten us, I believe, on the permanence of the fundamentals that must guide us and on a constant: the central place of the commune and our mayors in the territorial organization of the Republic. In 2019, our society has evolved significantly, even more intensely in recent decades, and the role of legislators is needed to adapt the law to the realities that are changing at an accelerated pace. If we are today studying the text of commitment and proximity, it is because the alarm bell sounded a year ago, at the heart of the territories, on the occasion of the great national debate: the feeling of being left behind, a lack of recognition that has added to a feeling of discouragement, of the misunderstanding of the local elected representatives in the face of the immense task they have to carry out on a daily basis and in the face of the increased difficulties they face; a feeling of dispossession of their power as well. What is the resonance, what is the meaning of the basic rule of free community administration? The mayors, the first ambassadors of the Republic and of proximity, who remain the most appreciated elected representatives of our fellow citizens, discourage themselves, despair and expect strong support, an audible signal from the State. This appeal has been heard, Minister, during the many hours of great national debate with local elected officials. With the President of the Republic you have been able to measure the stakes and expectations of our local representatives. They are strong and will probably not all be satisfied with the text that will occupy us this week. However, it is up to us to find as many solutions as possible, as simple as possible, because the simplicity often announced but rarely answered, is one of the main challenges of this text. Our local elected officials invest heavily in their territory, often at the expense of their personal or professional lives, and we must live up to their expectations. The delegation to local and regional authorities and decentralization has legitimately taken up this text in its entirety, and I was pleased to work in partnership with my colleague Stéphane Baudu, whom I would like to thank here. The various hearings conducted by the delegation or jointly with the Law Committee allowed us to identify or confirm essential avenues to complete the text resulting from the Government's work. The main axes of the mayor's place in his intercommunality, the facilitation of daily work, the strengthening of the power to execute decisions and the tools to facilitate the engagement of elected officials correspond to the needs we have gathered and to what we hear on the ground. Our mission this week will be to enrich, complement and clarify the provisions of the bill. In particular, the delegation focused on one central point: the governance pact, which is the cornerstone of the inter-municipal relationship and good functioning. In this way, we will support with conviction and determination a binding governance pact as a necessary founding tool for the success of the contract and the inter-municipal project. Like many of our colleagues, we have worked on strengthening parity within the communal bloc. Without guaranteeing a miracle solution, we will make proposals aimed at promoting parity in our local executives. Finally, the Delegation was fully aware of the challenges and the need to strengthen the tools that would facilitate political engagement at the communal level tomorrow. How can we ensure equal access to local mandates for all professional categories? The constraints of companies, especially of the smaller ones – the TPEs and SMEs – do not always make it possible, even with the best will, to facilitate the engagement of employees. However, we must continue to accompany the formation of elected officials, initially, during and after the term of office, solidify the courses of VAE, strengthen the professional bridges. If we know that the provisions on training will be formalised by order, we will pay particular attention to this subject and we will have the opportunity to alert you to what we consider to be a priority in this area and essential to take into account. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is the spirit that will guide the delegation to local authorities and decentralization in order to accompany the success of this text, much expected by all our local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u103	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u104	I would also like to congratulate the Minister and the Minister on the quality of the parliamentary debate that took place in the Committee on Laws. By this text, it is a question of telling the mayors that we love them, while exasperation is expressed everywhere. It is indeed an operation of seduction – not excluding serious work – that takes place here, the very day of the opening of the Congress of Mayors, as if the Government feared that this dedicated legislative action would go unnoticed. After this text, however, there will remain clear disagreements on local taxation, housing tax, management of water and sanitation skills, medical desertification and, in general, public services. I will make four comments on the context and three comments on the bill. First contextual observation, the NOTRE law, whose rapporteur was Olivier Dussopt, now a member of the Government, and which was adopted following a concluding CMP held in the Senate under the chairmanship of Philippe Bas, has been the subject of lengthy debates focused on intercommunality. We were a few colleagues to insist, in vain, on the usefulness of thinking also at the local level, which is so particular that the municipality and the team of volunteers forming the municipal council constitute. To paraphrase Tocqueville, the commune is to democracy what the school is to science. That is to say, if we have to take care, without conservatism, of the thousand-year-old heritage that the state does not create but inherits. Secondly, intercommunalism must provide a suitable and sufficient space for the local public policies our fellow citizens expect in terms of mobility, transport, environment and culture. There are many mergers of commune communities that meet this objective, and I do not think that many are considering changing their scope. However, I also know small intercommunalities that make them lose their interest in rural communes, gathered around a central city whose hegemonic will they see; Many of the elected members of these rural communes do not live well in the community councils dominated by the main city whose political weight crushes local democracy. Third observation, a tsunami of communities of communes XXL did not occur. Of the 1258 EPCIs, 143 have more than 50 municipalities, and 47% have less than 20. More than 80% of intercommunalities are satisfied. This is probably the reason why fewer than 11 articles of the NOTRE law – which has 136 of them – would be amended, and again, at the margin, by this text. Those who hoped for a dismantling of the NOTRE law will be disappointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u105	We are!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u106	Fourth observation, the Conference of Presidents of the National Assembly has just decided on a parliamentary mission on the implementation of the laws, with the aim of ensuring the proper landing of the text. Better than in the past, thanks to a cross-sectional and parallel work with the administration, users and local elected representatives, the legislator must be able to monitor the application of the text he has voted for as closely as possible and to see for himself the shortcomings and uncontrolled effects of certain arrangements. This exercise would have been useful for the NOTRE law and will be useful for other texts of the quinquennium, this one in particular. I come to the bill itself. A result of the great national debate and the discovery by the executive of the ras-le-bol of local elected officials, but also of the essential role they play in local democracy, this text constitutes a kind of simplified and easier way of use for local elected officials of the current territorial organization. I will make three remarks about him. First of all, just as we failed to enshrine the role of the commune, this text fails to speak of the citizen. It is surprising, when we know that it is part of the continuation of the great national debate launched after the mobilization of the yellow vests, and in the current civic convention for the climate. We owe it to an amendment by the rapporteur – whom I thank – an incise in Article 1 dealing with the governance pact. We will propose that you complete this laudable addition, which has been made in the Committee on Laws. I then turn to the formation of local elected officials. In this regard, the route of the order is a mistake. I thank you, Minister, for not calling for urgency as a reason for such a choice. Indeed, if the way of the ordinance does not generally lead to the adoption of a text more quickly, it undoubtedly leads to it being done less democratically. However, the formation is surrounded by opacity. It often serves other causes and suffers from excesses and deficiencies. On the other hand, the university must be more involved in the formation of elected officials. Finally, ethics is absent from the text. Mr. Minister, will it be the fourth D of the 3D bill we are being announced? The Ethics and Rights and Obligations of Civil Servants Act 2016 establishes a professional focal point, but it is exclusively competent with respect to civil servants. It is time to extend to local elected officials the competence of this independent qualified person, who gives an opinion following individual and confidential referrals, without the power of sanction. [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] So it's not the big night, as our colleague André Chassaigne says so well! However, we expect constructive work on a consensus text from this debate. If we agree to give mayors more freedom, we still have to work on how to grant that freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u107	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u108	Today we are opening the consideration of the bill called "engagement and proximity." There is a great deal of interest in this House, but above all in our communes, especially the most rural ones. It must meet the many expectations of local elected officials and allow for a better understanding of the renewal of municipal and community councils in 2020. We know the role played by the great national debate with the mayors in raising presidential awareness. We also know that the territorial divide and the drop-out of some local elected officials derive their origins from ill-conceived laws, too demanding a timetable, and the gradual disengagement of the State. The trend is now reversed, first of all with the return of the state to the territories. The creation of the Agence nationale de la cohesion des territoires and the labelling of France services houses are strong signs of this. With this text, we look forward to putting the municipal mandate at the forefront, to facilitating and securing engagement as close as possible to our fellow citizens, and to reinvigorating the role of the commune in intercommunality. I welcome the preparatory work carried out by the members of the delegation to local authorities and decentralisation, and I particularly thank Anne Blanc, with whom I had the pleasure of sharing a task of draftsman. Together with our colleagues in the delegation as well as in the MODEM Group, we surveyed our constituencies very early, as close as possible to the expectations of the local elected representatives. Complemented by numerous hearings, this work has enriched our reflections and fed our proposals for amendments, in a constructive but demanding state of mind, in order to provide concrete and pragmatic responses to situations of everyday life that are often poorly experienced by local elected officials. I will focus my speech on one aspect of the bill: the essential clarification of the place of the commune in the necessary intercommunality. The philosophy of the text is to restore trust and flexibility: to stitch rather than detricate. Applied to the intercommunal triptych governance-competence-perimeter, this philosophy has all its virtues, but it can go further in several respects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u109	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u110	This is the case with the governance pact, which I believe is one of the major innovations in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u111	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u112	It reminds us that the intercommunal project is a cooperation project. Thanks to this pact, intercommunalities will have a unique opportunity to define the contract of the mandate that opens, to discuss the rules of operation that are essential between the member communes and to validate the organisation to be set up in the service of a shared territory project. The underlying issues are many: governance bodies, parity, participatory democracy, mutualization and financial solidarity. This pact will be a federating meeting of intercommunality and a major educational act for the new elected representatives. We will plead to make it compulsory, not as a new constraint but as an opportunity for the elected representatives of the municipalities to decide freely how they want to work together; Not as a carcan, but as a guide to community action until 2026. As far as competences are concerned, we will defend the search for the right balance between stability and flexibility. In this regard, we welcome the return to the initial drafting of the text on the transfer of water and sanitation skills. Given the ecological challenge of water and the volume of future investments, the transfer and strategic management of these skills at Community level is essential. The drought episodes remind us of it brutally. Furthermore, the text should make it possible to facilitate, without disrupting it, the exercise of powers, in particular optional and optional, according to the specificities of the territory, for example through an expanded delegation mechanism. As far as perimeters are concerned, while all actors are plebisciteing stability, we welcome the corrective arrangements for making amicable separations to get closer to a relevant living pool, as well as the possibility of dividing too large intercommunalities, which fail to function. For the rest, we note in particular the extension of the mayor's police powers, with a text enriched by the Senate but secured by the Assembly's Law Committee. We also welcome the provisions to facilitate the exercise of the mandate in communes of less than 3500 inhabitants: allowances, child care and travel expenses. With regard to the reform of the formation of elected officials, we welcome with great satisfaction your commitment, Minister, to closely involve parliamentarians in the drafting of an ordinance which we hope will include initial training from the first year until accompanying the conversion. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] In conclusion, we approach with benevolence and determination the examination of this text which is indispensable for our territories and for the dynamism of local democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u113	Mr. Louis Aliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u114	Bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action: a whole programme! The mayor is, by far, the most popular among the French: almost 70 per cent of our citizens say that he is the one who best responds to their concerns on a daily basis. A city is the community of happy life, Aristotle said. Unfortunately, mayors suffer and carry out an extremely difficult mission: one in two mayors says they intend not to represent themselves in 2020. To quote Tocqueville, "it is in the commune that the strength of the free peoples lies. [...] Without communal institutions a nation can give itself a free government, but does not have the spirit of freedom. » I am therefore pleased that the bill is trying to strengthen the powers of mayors and the means that accompany them in their most difficult missions. A status of elected officials would be welcome in the long run. [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] Nevertheless, I regret that some common sense measures that we advocate are not included in the text, such as the automation of the local referendum for municipal projects involving a town hall for several terms and for large sums. Such a check on the use of the city's money by the public authorities would help to build confidence in the town hall and avoid local waste. The state must not do anything! The merger of the regions has for example led the Occitanie region to spend 1 billion euros more than previous managements, thus aggravating the problems without advancing major structural projects such as the TGV Montpellier-Perpignan! How could a city like Perpignan develop by being five hours away from TGV Paris and being served by an airline that does not seem to be the concern of either the monopoly company or the state? It seems that the south of France, from Nîmes to Cerbère, has totally escaped the eyes of a Parisian state whose strategic vision stops at the gates of Greater Paris! And the rest of France, do you think about it? The communes are the wealth of the large house France. Unfortunately, they are in the process of being abandoned, for the most rural of them. Everywhere, sub-prefectures and small provincial prefectures are falling. France loses what has made the minds of these historic provincial capitals, dense urban centres lost in the campaign where judges judged, where the prefects administered and where citizens had the choice between about fifty varieties of cheese at the crest, as in Balzac's novels: it is not I who say it, but an American journalist afraid of this decline! It is our entire land-use policy that needs to be rethought. The mayor has a great role to play in this. He must not be complicit in the desertification of the city centres. Too many large commercial areas have been allowed to emerge, to the detriment of city hearts and small commerce. In order to carry out his duties properly, the mayor must not depend on an over-politicized context. Yet the opposite can be seen in Occitanie, once again, where the mayors of Beaucaire and Béziers are all too often the victims of the political and anti-republican fatwas of some local potentials at the end of their journey – starting with the arrogant president of the Occitanie socialist region, who continues to penalize mayors opposed to his crazy politics. She was also sentenced by the Nîmes Court of Appeal for discrimination on the grounds of political opinion and for obstructing the pursuit of economic activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u115	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u116	In the area of intercommunality, more democracy is needed, and mayors should not be deprived of their prerogatives to the benefit of small local arrangements which, in the future, will keep voters away from the ballot box. In addition, the mayor must act to the maximum extent possible for the safety of his or her citizens. The first of the freedoms and the sine qua non of good living, security is the essential ingredient to boost the economy of a city. To restore well-being in peripheral and rural areas, community-based public services are needed. However, the Government is doing the opposite by closing public finance centres and classes, allowing hospitals to break down and not solving the problems of white areas. The construction sites are colossal and the mayors are very alone to manage daily life. I will not even mention the state of advanced disrepair of secondary road networks, nor the regional railway, which is increasingly problematic and whose management represents exorbitant costs. We reaffirm our commitment to the three pillars of the Republic, namely the State, the Department and the Commune. Let us find the meaning of the Republic; Let us regain the sense of proximity between power centres and citizens: you will see that democracy will only be better off. We will, however, vote in favour of this text, which represents a step forward for local democracy, not without having defended on foot amendments that will introduce a little more freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u117	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u118	[[Smile]] Today, more than ever, I measure the meaning of the words "engagement" and "neighbourliness", since I am rushing from Toulouse, from a meeting relating to hospitals, a subject very important for the South Aveyron. Unfortunately, transport is not always reliable by the minute. In any case, I am very pleased to be in this Chamber to begin, a few months before the municipal elections – which the French particularly expect, because they love them and because they concern their daily lives – the consideration of the bill on the engagement in local life and the proximity of public action. Mr. Minister, you wanted the consultation to be as broad as possible in advance of the text you are presenting. As a preamble to my remarks on this subject, I would like to thank you publicly for the quality of the preparation that you have kindly made possible before and during the week of consideration of the text in the Committee on Laws. It has enabled us to share views, to find compromises, to build together answers to the questions of our fellow citizens and elected representatives of our territories, in a positive climate of trust. The Group of the European People's Party is therefore calmly approaching the few days of debate that await us and, as it should be said at the outset, wishes to be able to support the text that will result from our discussions. Here are five topics that I wish to address in this general discussion. First of all, the question of the joints of the communal bloc, i.e. the couple formed by the commune and the community of communes. Your initial proposals are aimed at strengthening the role of the mayor and therefore of the commune, a vision to which I fully subscribe. Senators considered it useful to engrave in the marble of the law the mandatory nature of provisions such as the governance contract or the conference of mayors. On the contrary, we believe that the law must provide for these tools, but leave them entirely in the hands of the local elected representatives, who must be able to use them according to their territorial plans, the peculiarities of the development of their territory, the history of the constructions, in particular intercommunal ones, to which it has been subjected. In our view, the obligation runs counter to the flexibility that you have wished to breathe into the text. We will therefore be particularly vigilant on this point. Secondly, and in line with my first remark, a word of shared competence. As far as water and sanitation are concerned, which, if I may say so, has given rise to a lot of ink in recent years, we would have liked to have simply returned to the free choice for the municipalities to transfer it or not to the community of communes. Personally, I do not believe that it is in the CIPE that it is the best accommodation; There are basin unions that could bring together the small and large water cycles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u119	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u120	They would be better suited receptacles of this competence. Minister, you have heard the comments on this and are proposing a top-down delegation; We will adopt it as a matter of course, with some reservations about how it will be implemented. The possibility of such manipulations should therefore be opened up to other competences, and in the ascending direction, for example to departmental councils; I am thinking in particular of economic competence, which is so difficult to assume in rural areas. My third point concerns issues of local democracy and representativeness. They are the subject of our greatest regret regarding the examination of this text in committee, as the Chair of the Committee on Laws has made an awkward attempt to divert the subject of the debate from the conditions for the exercise of local democracy to parity between men and women. Members of the Republican Group are very committed to taking responsibility for women, at all levels of democratic life in our country, and will not agree to be unjustly caricatured if the debate comes back to this point. On the other hand, knowing precisely the reality of local life in our smallest municipalities, we consider the majority vote to be the most suitable below the current threshold of 1000 inhabitants, because it alone allows pluralism and guarantees the free access of all citizens to elected office. We will also support the fact that the threshold of 500 inhabitants chosen as a compromise for the implementation of the joint list vote does not correspond to much. I was mayor of a commune of 600 inhabitants: between 450 and 520 inhabitants, there is little difference; Increasing from 900 to 1100 inhabitants means crossing a threshold. My fourth point concerns the operation of the works and the flow of information between the communal and inter-municipal levels. We support the idea that communal elected representatives should be informed as much as possible of what is happening within the EPCI. But, again, we need to be modern and flexible, and provide for widely accessible platforms rather than transmission obligations. Finally, my fifth and final point concerns the difficult issue of recognizing local commitment. The elected representatives of the communes, mostly volunteers, form an army essential to our territories. You want to legislate by ordinance on this point: we will trust you, but we insist on the importance of training, in particular in order to allow the return to working life – because in our territories we need elected officials who are also active. In conclusion, minister, I will express a slight regret that the "3D" bill – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration – introduced by Mrs.Gourault only reaches us in the spring of 2020. Therefore, we must now ensure that this bill is consistent with this future legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u121	Trust doesn't rule out control!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u122	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u123	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u124	Amendment No 944 by Mr Bruno Bilde is being defended. The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u125	Mayors want to be involved in all the public policies referred to in Article 1. I request the withdrawal of this amendment; If not, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u126	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u127	Without repeating what I have just said in the rostrum, I would like to explain in two words the fact that we want an optional governance pact and a mandatory conference of mayors. The governance pact must be a hand-held tool for EPCI representatives to establish rules and arrangements for their cooperation. The conference of mayors, on the other hand, must ensure the place of mayors, a privileged place, enshrined in the law, within the EPCI. In this way, we intend to react to the disarray of local elected officials, to whom the NOTRE law of 7 August 2015 had led to the loss of confidence. There will of course be a few additional developments: after having included in the governance pact the modalities of citizen participation, we intend to add to it the rules that the EPCI can adopt to promote parity within them, as well as we value parity by submitting the communes to the list vote from 500 inhabitants. We hope that the EPCI will seize this lever to achieve this goal that we all share – the great cause of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u128	Don't do too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u129	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u130	Minister, I have just given you our point of view on Article 1. The governance pact and the conference of mayors are indeed useful tools for the installation of EPCIs, following the municipal elections. Their establishment must take place as soon as possible: it is hard to imagine that our assembly will decide otherwise, as regards safeguards for the intercommunal action of the elected representatives. Our fellow citizens would not understand that governance issues absorb one year of the mandate. But the essential point of the article, in our view, is that these tools must be made available by law to local elected officials, municipalities and EPCIs, without being mandatory. For an EPCI to work, it takes two things: that a territorial project, likely to be formalized by a governance pact, should be born quickly within it; and that it respects, coordinates and accompanies the municipalities that make up it, thus giving their mayors a special place in its governance apparatus. However, the application of these wise principles is the responsibility of the elected representatives. To impose them on them is to run the risk of emptying these tools of their meaning. That is why we will defend their optional nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u131	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u132	This Article 1e r suits me quite well: it is optional; It only requires deliberation at the beginning of the mandate to determine whether or not a governance pact is being concluded. One might even ask the question of its usefulness, because pacts between elected representatives already exist, by conventional means. But let us not refine too much, let us not make juridism: this text leaves a great freedom, and it is very well so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u133	It doesn't eat bread!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u134	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u135	This brief introductory statement will be repeated for each article, which will allow me to then move a little faster when giving the Government's opinion on the amendments, thereby making them more effective. First of all, Mr de Courson is right: this article will be of no use to the EPCI where everything is going well; But not everything goes well everywhere, and we have to know about these malfunctions. We must therefore remedy this. Secondly, Messrs. Viala and Courson know my Tocquevillian opinions: I believe a lot in local freedom. I must admit that, in its original wording, the article did not contain any mandatory measures. It gave only institutions such as the conference of mayors, or the governance pacts concluded here and there, a legal basis for giving them content, if any. [[Mr Raphaël Schellenberger protested]] The mandatory nature of the conference of mayors was wanted by the Senate majority. I say this particularly for Mr Viala, although not in his personal capacity. Moreover, I say it with caution, for the Committee on Laws, many of whose members are present this evening, has worked on it; and the judgement of the press on this work is quite hard. Therefore, I wish to clarify this only in order to ensure that responsibility for this measure is not attributed to the Government. In any event, some felt that the conference of mayors was too important to remain optional; On this point, I rely on the wisdom of the National Assembly, as I have relied on the wisdom of the Senate. I will, however, set a few limits, on which I think we will agree. On the one hand, the conference of mayors will not be transformed into a Community super-counsel: the deliberative body, within the legal, proportional and democratic framework, remains the Community council. On the other hand, the governance pact will provide the political and administrative organization with an intercommunality, but not a derogation from the law. This is the global framework in which to work. The governance pact should not be mandatory, but the question of its existence must be. That sounds like nothing but common sense: if there is a political blockage in an EPCI, this item may never be put on the agenda. As for the time required, I will give you the same answer as in the Senate: set the time limit that you want, as long as it is the same time limit as for the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u137	I don't want complicated devices. Imagine a community of municipalities of 16,000 inhabitants whose Secretary General and Director General of Services have to verify in the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, the CGCT, that it takes nine months to conclude a governance pact, six months to establish a rules of procedure! It takes the same time for both. Things are already complicated enough, so let's do some simplification. The issue is certainly not a consensus – Mr Viala has just expressed an opinion to the contrary – but I note a willingness to leave the elected representatives a little bit of time – nine months – between the election, which is taking place in April, and the drafting of the governance pact. Here too, I will rely on the wisdom of the National Assembly. On the other hand, what matters to the Government is, I repeat, to set the same deadline for the rules of procedure and for the governance pact. Last important point with regard to the governance pact: nothing prevents us from indicating in the law what it might contain – there may be a question of parity, representation of rural communes or other things – but, as it is not mandatory, these requirements must remain indicative. It may include objectives that, without being principled, give the elected representatives substance and facilitate their work. These considerations will inform the Government's views on the subsequent amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u138	We come to the amendments. Mr Bruno Bilde's deletion amendment No 943 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u139	Disadvantaged, for the reasons given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u140	The Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u141	The amendment is intended to delete an essential article, which corresponds to the request of all local elected representatives and their associations. Without this clause, the bill does not make any sense. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u142	I call Mr Remy Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 1608.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u143	It is withdrawn in favour of Amendment No 1612, by which we will propose making the governance pact compulsory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u144	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 676.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u145	I am sure that you will like the amendment and want to vote on it, because it proposes a measure of common sense and efficiency. It aims to prevent community councillors who were beaten in the municipal elections from running for president of an EPCI. Political dialogue is essential in an EPCI and in political life in general, and there is absolutely no question of calling democracy into question in our territories. But is it normal that a community councillor beaten in the municipal elections by universal suffrage can be elected, thanks to small arrangements between friends, at the head of the EPCI – often with the sole purpose of settling his accounts with the elected mayor, therefore with the commune that did not want him? [[Smile]] No need to draw a picture: this presidency can quickly become a handicap for all EPCI cities, especially if the president had introduced himself to the municipalities in the most important city. No false suspense: for once, the proposed measure does not concern Béziers, but I can cite examples of nearby cities – Narbonne or Carcassonne. In such a context, the EPCI will no longer be a tool at the service of the communes and their inhabitants – contrary to the purpose of this bill – but a political toy where obstruction will be the rule. The amendment aims to avoid these situations and to ensure that the French are close to them, at their service and in the service of their territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u147	Mrs Ménard, your amendment would create a form of inequality between the members of the Community who are the result of universal suffrage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u148	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u149	If, since the law cannot prohibit an adviser from taking up a position to which he or she is entitled within the EPCI to which he or she belongs. I'm sorry about that, but my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u151	Mrs Ménard, I cannot help smiling because your amendment runs counter to everything that the elected officials of the National Rally in my department of Eure tell me. In the aftermath of the municipal election, they were candidates for the community election, considering that having been elected by direct universal suffrage as community councillors, often in large cities and sometimes with a significant score, gave them legitimacy. What does being beaten mean? The concept is ambiguous and delicate to translate into law: does it mean that the list is a minority, that it comes in second place? In fact, some elected members of the National Rally – of which I do not agree – argue that a packager on a majority list is less legitimate than a minority leader, since it is on his name that the vote has taken place. Mr Aliot, come to the Eure and you'll see that's what your troops say! In view of the breakdown of democracy that the amendment implies, I propose that it be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u152	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u153	I remind you that I am not part of the National Rally; Moreover, I do not know the advisers of the National Rally in the Eure and do not know what their speech is. Admit that, from a democratic point of view, it is problematic that the mayor of a commune, elected by direct universal suffrage, sees his competitor – or opponent – beaten to be elected to the head of the EPCI only by means of copying. I maintain this last term because mayors can form a network of friendships and try to stop one of them, which they would not like and which they do not think is legitimate. However, the mayor of the commune was elected by direct universal suffrage, and his opponent was beaten – or, if you prefer, was not elected; the fact that he can then become president of the EPCI is contradictory with the democratic will...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u154	From Beziers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u155	It's a prevention amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u156	...of the citizens of its communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u157	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u158	First of all, the amendment is unconstitutional since it introduces a breach of equality before the vote. Then, the mayor is not elected by universal suffrage, but by the municipal council. It is not necessarily the head of the majority list that becomes mayor; there are cases where another candidate is selected. Finally, the problem that Ms Ménard raises is real: the configuration she describes is perfect to put the firecracker in an intercommunality. But the mayor of the town centre is not necessarily the most able to manage the community of communes well and maintain its balance. Mrs Ménard, allow me to make one suggestion: you should withdraw your amendment and table another, stating that each municipality only delegates members of the municipal majority to the community council. That, in my opinion, is not unconstitutional – contrary to the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u159	Luckily, we're out of time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u160	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1582 and 80, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Baudu to support Amendment No. 1582.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u161	It tends to re-establish an editorial element. Article 1 creates a new sub-section within the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, designed to improve coordination between own-tax EPCIs and their member municipalities. We therefore propose to re-establish the title of the subsection adopted by the Senate, which specifies that it concerns relations between the EPCI and its member communes, and not between the EPCI and the mayors of the communes. These are relations between entities, not between entities and elected representatives, however important they may be, since a municipality that is a member of an EPCI can be represented by the mayor, but also by other community councillors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u162	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u163	He pointed out that mayors were not only in relation to the EPCIs with own taxation, but also with their member communes, the groupings of communes and the poles of territorial and rural balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u164	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u165	With regard to the first, I regret to object to an unfavourable opinion, in the absence of a request for withdrawal which I dare not make... The bill we are debating is primarily for mayors, who we want to restore to their functions and put at the heart of local arrangements. Mr Cinieri, we will discuss the subject you are talking about several times. The governance pact involves the EPCI and the mayors of the member communes, as it aims to improve the governance of the EPCI by making mayors its main actors. There is no question of creating a governance forum for all the institutions in the territory concerned: this would be tantamount to creating an additional stratum, which is not our objective. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u166	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1264, 1583, 1612, 1265 and 1584, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1264, 1583 and 1612, 1265 and 1584, are identical. Mr Vincent Bru has the floor to support Amendment No. 1264.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u167	It is against the Minister's earlier view that the governance pact should be made mandatory. It seems to me important, in fact, to redefine the relations between the EPCI and the municipalities and the affectio societatis within the territory covered by an EPCI. On the other hand, the content of the governance pact is left to the full freedom of local elected representatives: as the Minister has pointed out, the elements mentioned in the article are given only as an indication. Thus: freedom of elected representatives as to content, but obligation, at the beginning of the mandate, to draw up a governance pact, which presents itself as the redefinition of the affectio societatis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u168	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor in support of the identical amendment No. 1583.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u169	The idea is the same. Without wishing to engage in a philosophical debate on freedom, I think that, in order to speak, freedom needs a favourable environment. The governance pact can be the tool that creates this favourable climate within an intercommunality, the contract that gives the mandate a solid foundation. It is in this spirit that we defend the mandatory nature of the governance pact as a guarantee of the proper functioning of the structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u170	I call Mr Remy Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 1612.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u171	We are in favour of contractual freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u172	Compulsory freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u173	The contractual obligation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u174	The Declaration of Human Rights reminds us, moreover, that freedom is always a liberty with restraint. We are in favour of freedom, but of a contractual freedom: not that of a potentate that would decide for everyone, but that of setting the rules clearly at the beginning of the mandate, together with all the mayors, through the conference of mayors – a sort of guidance board that would draw up a governance pact for the mandate. Such a practice seems to us to be of good management, the conference being of course free to introduce into this pact the elements to be organised within each EPCI. Depending on the territory, requirements may vary: for example, where community services will be established or how certain decisions will be made. In any event, it is important for our local elected colleagues to know on what collective basis they are leaving; not only that they accept it, but that they participate in its elaboration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u175	We come to the second set of identical amendments in the joint debate. Mr Vincent Bru has the floor to support Amendment No. 1265.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u176	It must be made clear that, if the content of the governance pact is free, the mayors may nevertheless refuse to draw up one. The amendment thus makes the governance pact mandatory, unless two thirds of the mayors of the municipalities object.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u177	I call Mr Baudu to support Amendment No. 1584.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u178	While, for us, the drafting of a governance pact must be mandatory, local elected officials must, however, retain some freedom, some flexibility. This amendment, which has been withdrawn, provides that if at least two thirds of the mayors of the municipalities which are members of an EPCI oppose it, the pact would no longer be binding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u179	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u180	Unfavorable. Indeed, you explain to us that it is necessary to make the scheme compulsory because, otherwise, the elected ones would not be free to discuss with each other the rules they would give themselves. On the contrary, the elected representatives must be given full freedom of conscience, decision-making and action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u182	At the beginning of the mandate, discussion on the development of a governance pact is mandatory. Therefore, if there is no pact, it is the result of a vote and therefore local freedom is exercised. I would understand that you would object to me, if the debate were not compulsory, that the majority would be in danger of overturning the debate in order to prevent the formation of a pact, but, since we have found in committee a balance point allowing the elected representatives, at the beginning of their term of office, to decide on it and, if necessary, to choose the content of the pact, we do have a mechanism that works. I repeat, we must trust local elected officials: we give them legal bases and tools that they are free to use, whether or not they are free to use. I know from experience that, if you force things, the governance pacts will only be bla-bla, empty documents, without affectio societatis; It is the belief in these contractual tools that makes them enforceable and, in this respect, the Assembly cannot legislate. Let's give the governance pact a legal basis without making it mandatory, and let's try the experiment. Opinion against all amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u183	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u184	You are, Mr Rebeyrotte, for contractual freedom but also, in the end, for contractual obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u185	It's compulsory freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u186	The local and regional authorities, unfortunately, do not function in this way. Rather than forcing elected officials to write declarations of interest without interest, it is better to give them the opportunity to make governance pacts interesting. It is indeed the attractive nature of what can be included in the pact, rather than its mandatory nature, that will be of interest and success. Indeed – the minister is right – we all know how this works: when you have to do something, putting a little bad faith in it, you can do it very quickly and without it changing anything. In many intercommunities, governance problems do not exist: everything is done very naturally, elected officials get along well, decisions are agreed. So let's not reason from cases where everything is not going well. In addition, to force elected officials, this is never the right solution; it is better to encourage them to act – here, by proposing tools that may interest them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u187	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u188	To say he agrees with me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u189	We are indeed in agreement, Mr Schellenberger and myself,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u190	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u191	...that the development of a governance pact should remain optional. It is, as has been said, a tool which, if we force the elected ones to use it, will no longer make sense. The difference with the conference of mayors is that, in the latter case, it is an assembly that decides: mayors are forced to deliberate, but not to make any decision. That is why we designed this mechanism: we force them to come together to talk about a document that can be very useful to them, but that is not mandatory. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party will therefore not support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u192	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u193	Those who present these five amendments are in complete contradiction. You cannot defend your amendments in the name of freedom and make it compulsory to draw up a pact of deliberation! Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, what would happen, if your amendments were adopted, in intercommunities that would refuse to establish a pact? What sanctions would they face? Your amendments are therefore not tenable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u194	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u195	The members of the Socialist and Related Group consider the governance pact to be one of the key measures of the bill, which must be put forward. The large intercommunalities suffered from a lack of initial reflection on the organization to be adopted as their scope and the number of actors involved increased. The failure of some of them came from there: they continued to operate at 20,000 inhabitants as when they had 10,000. We believe in the interest of the mechanism we consider, as well as the conference of mayors, to be in line with the constitutional principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. From this point of view, the binding nature of the governance pact does not pose any problem, since the content of the pact is not defined and the aim is to support small municipalities which often find it difficult to be heard within the inter-communities. And, if a governance pact is to be concluded and address a given list of topics, it will facilitate the co-operation of mayors among themselves within an intercommunal framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u196	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u197	As I said in committee, I very much support the mandatory nature of the governance pact. It is enough to see how things are going in many intercommunities. New elected officials will enter, driven by new ideas that can change the content of the governance pact. And if the reflection is not necessarily followed by the elaboration of a pact, it is well known that some elected ones will crush others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u199	Moreover, the mayors of the small communes do not even dare to speak, while a few voices are imposed on others – in particular the representatives of the most important communes, in fact much more numerous. Therefore, the obligation to draw up a governance pact is a factor of democracy. In referring to third-party effectiveness, you are the one who are adversarial, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u200	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u201	Indeed, in paragraph 11 of the article, I read: "The pact may be amended by the deliberative body of the public institution of intercommunal cooperation, in accordance with the same procedure as for its adoption. In the event of a problem, it can therefore always be changed by the elected representatives of the intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u202	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u203	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u204	[[Smile]] I agree with Mr Schellenberger: where there is no problem, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u205	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u206	As my grandmother said...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u207	I fully agree. We are dealing here with places where, precisely, there is a problem. And we are making sure that in these places a governance tool can be defined. Or rather two tools: the conference of mayors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u208	It won't solve the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u209	... and indeed the idea was retained to generalize it because where there are none, it is a problem; and the governance pact – which can also be called charter or take another name – because, likewise, where there are none, there are problems. The governance that is automatically set up by some kind of magic operation, I don't believe it. Either the governance pact emanates from the will of the elected representatives or, in the absence of that will, a mechanism must force them to draft it. That seems essential to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u210	The amendments were rejected thanks to the votes of Members of the Republican Group!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u211	I have before me two amendments, Nos 67 and 4, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u212	The purpose of this amendment is to regulate in time the obligation to refer the matter to the Community Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u213	I call Mr Sebastien Leclerc to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u214	It aims to clarify that it is within four months of the general renewal of municipal councils that the community council must take up the debate on the development of the governance pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u216	Unfavorable. The proposed time frame is not tailored to the needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u218	I confess that I am not the guardian of the truth revealed on this issue. We have therefore taken advice from many elected associations. Let us be honest: we are asked to give local elected officials time, to guarantee them flexibility; We are told that, during the first three or four months, many things have to be put in place, that it sometimes takes the new elected representatives several weeks or even months to become familiar with the intercommunal life, with the personalities who preside over a community of communes or a community of agglomeration. I prefer a period of nine months, which may seem a little long, to a period which would be too short. To the possible objection of knowing how intercommunality works during that time, I reply that both case law and the general code of local and regional authorities provide that the previous rules of procedure will continue to apply pending the adoption of a new regulation. So there is no white area, if I may say so. And such a delay allows for consultation of the governance pact. In an EPCI "XXL" – you may know something about it in your department, MP Leclerc – we also make sure that rural elected representatives can meet and get to know each other. I will not take back the considerations on the potentials because it is always delicate, from Paris, to call one or another colleague a local potentate; It can also simply be a good boss, which is quite different. In short, giving them time is not an offence to local elected officials, on the contrary: it shows our pragmatism and our flexibility. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments, ladies and gentlemen, failing which I will issue an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u219	I call Mrs Yolaine de Courson to support Amendment No. 859.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u220	This trans-party amendment is the result of the work of the study group on rural issues. It is known that the installation session of a community of communes is long and complicated, with the election of the president, vice-presidents... It is therefore necessary to avoid the EPCI having to decide on the drawing up of a governance pact between the municipalities and the establishment, as well as on the conditions and arrangements for consultation of the Development Council at its general renewal or at the sitting at which its President and Vice-Presidents are elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u222	My dear colleague, I have been involved in the work of the study group that you are chairing to exchange with its members on this subject, and we have been very much involved in dealing with the issue that concerns you. It appears that your amendment is satisfied with the text as drafted. In addition, the mechanism you are proposing leads to the development of a new governance pact for each possible renewal of EPCI during the same term. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment – the measure you are proposing is likely to be more binding than you wish – or else I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u223	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u224	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u225	[[Smile]] Thank you, Minister, for this brevity that honors you... Do you maintain your amendment, Madame de Courson?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u226	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u227	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor to support Amendment No. 1585 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u228	This is an amendment of coordination: it is necessary to recall that, when intercommunities are merged, we must discuss the creation of the governance pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u229	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 81, 430 and 480. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u230	It is intended to make the debate and deliberation proposed here optional, so that each EPCI can decide whether or not they are relevant to its territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u231	I call Mr Sebastien Leclerc to support Amendment No. 430.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u232	While the intention of the Government and the purpose of this bill are to give greater freedom to communities, it seems contradictory to open the bill with an article giving a new directive to local elected officials. That is why Mr Vincent Rolland has tabled an amendment to make the debate and deliberation provided for in Article 1 optional, so that each EPCI can decide whether or not they are relevant to the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u233	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 480.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u234	Minister, in the light of our discussions on the optionality of the governance pact, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u235	What is the opinion of the committee on the two identical amendments that are still under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u236	I can only encourage our two colleagues to follow the path that Mr Viala has just taken. I thank him for his great wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u237	[[Smile]] We'll know how to remind you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u238	I'm counting on you! The mechanism is not binding: it is only intended to make the debate possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u240	If I am not in favour of the mandatory nature of the pact itself, however, the "democratic moment" should be retained, which, after each general renewal, allows the deliberative body to decide by a vote on its elaboration. Imagine, Mr Leclerc, that the president of the urban community Lisieux Normandie does not want a governance pact to be drawn up when rural mayors ask for it! At least the debate must take place and we must be able to vote. I therefore call for the two amendments to be withdrawn. This will make it possible to propose a coherent and balanced system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u241	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u242	Minister, thank you for quoting the beautiful city of Lisieux and its great agglomeration. Although I am not the first signatory of the amendment, I take responsibility for withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u243	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u244	By proposing to introduce a secret ballot vote, it promotes the political freedom necessary for a genuine territorial governance pact based on individual choices rather than on local postures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u245	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u246	Unfavorable opinion. Today, secret ballot voting can already be requested by a third of the members present in the deliberative assembly. It also seems to me that the wording of the amendment is problematic, because it provides for a "discussion by secret ballot".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u248	The amendment is satisfied by ordinary law. Why change it with regard to this vote, not with regard to all the others? We have to give ourselves a framework. A community council that wants to move forward quickly has the means to do so. If a problem arises, 30% of its members will be able to trigger the secret ballot vote. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u249	Mr Cinieri, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u250	Yeah, although I'm not the first signatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u251	[[Smile]] You see how reasonable we are today!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u252	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor again to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u253	It is drafting and aims to return to the original text by specifying that the debate and deliberation on the drafting of the governance pact take place between the municipalities and the EPCI with own taxation of which they are members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u255	Mr Cinieri, your amendment suggests that municipalities that are not members of the EPCI can debate and deliberate, which is not possible. I therefore ask for his withdrawal, otherwise I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u256	I have before me four amendments, No 295 corrected, 802 corrected, 1586 and 1590, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 295 corrected and 802 corrected are identical. I call Mr Vatin to support Amendment No. 295, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u257	It aims to extend the content of the governance pact in order to introduce more flexibility in the organisation of relations between the municipalities and their intercommunalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u258	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 802, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u259	I said that if the pact is not mandatory, it must be made attractive. Therefore, we need to expand its scope so that elected officials can find an interest in it from the point of view of governance. They could, for example, have the possibility of making secret ballots for specific decisions binding locally, thanks to the pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u260	In the joint debate, Mr Baudu, would you like to present to us your two amendments Nos 1586 and 1590?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u261	Amendment No 1586 aims to incorporate into the very content of the governance pact the provisions relating to the association of the population and socio-economic actors in the formulation of the policies of the EPCI. Indeed, the modalities of consultation and co-construction are an integral part of a system of governance. They should not therefore be dealt with separately from the drafting of the Pact. According to the same logic, Amendment No 1590 provides for the possibility of setting up a development council in the context of the governance pact, if it is not mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u262	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u263	Unfavorable opinion. The list drawn up by the amendments is by nature incomplete, which is a problem. It is better to trust the territorial and collective intelligence of local elected officials than to lock them in such a rigid framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u265	Unfavorable opinion. The long work of the Commission has made it possible to achieve a balance; I think it's wise to stick to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u266	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u267	I am very pleased that two of the amendments under discussion make it possible to mention the possibility of a financial pact, but I cannot understand why these were accepted when the one I wanted to table on the same subject was declared inadmissible. I am impressed by the legal logic of the Law Committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u268	It's not the law commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u269	[[Mr Bruno Questel, rapporteur, appointed Ms Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairman of the Law Committee, who laughed]] Yes, it is. I can read you my amendment which provided for a financial pact. I don't think that's funny at all, Madam President! I note that Amendments Nos 802 and 878 as corrected, which propose "the realization of a financial and fiscal pact", have been deemed admissible, whereas my amendment was rejected on the grounds that it concerned a financial pact – that is what the administrators of the Law Committee told me earlier. I do not accept this explanation and I will seize who is entitled to obtain justice on this point, because what happened is not normal. In substance, it is clear that there is a need for a mandatory financial pact, because, contrary to what the rapporteur says, we cannot always trust collective intelligence. How often has it been found that when one or two municipalities are in difficulty, the majority refuse to show solidarity with them? What works more than collective intelligence is local selfishness. If the municipalities in difficulty, whether rural or urban, are not protected within the intercommunal system, by making it compulsory to draw up a financial pact, all this will not work. This was the meaning of the provisions relating to the financial pact of the law of 21 February 2014 on programming for the city and urban cohesion. During the consideration of the draft finance law for 2020, the Government explained to us that the financial pact should not be included in the general tax code, but in the general code of local authorities. Today, the Law Committee explains to us that the financial pact has no place in the CGC. Which text should we turn to? Where to include a provision that will make the conclusion of a financial pact indispensable in order to impose solidarity within the intercommunities – because this solidarity is not self-evident? I insist: in the second part of the finance law, we have adopted an amendment from the Government that moves the financial pact into the CGCC!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u270	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u271	I did not understand Mr Schellenberger's position well: he wants to give binding content to a pact he wishes not to be compulsory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u272	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u273	I just want to make the pact attractive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u274	I don't understand much! In any event, it seems to me essential to have at the outset a governance pact and a charter that is also financial, in order to make play of the solidarity internal to the EPCI.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u275	And how, if the amendments to this effect are deemed inadmissible?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u276	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 410.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u277	The binding governance pact we supported would necessarily have addressed a number of specific issues, including how to involve citizens in policy at the level of intercommunality. In this spirit, this amendment, to which I referred in my speech in the general discussion, complements the addition, made by the rapporteur in the Committee on Laws, concerning the association of citizens with the action of intercommunality, specifying that the various phases of this action are concerned, from conception to evaluation to implementation. This is not necessarily done at each of these stages, but one imagines the usefulness of a reflection by elected officials on how they raise the public's interest in the actions they undertake and to which they spend a great deal of public money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u279	Favourable opinion: the amendment streamlines the processes for the possible elaboration of the governance pacts and the installation of the structures mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u281	Favourable opinion. I hope, Mrs Untermaier, that the wording of the amendment corresponds well to the expectations you have presented to us with a certain enthusiasm – I admit that I have questioned myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u282	I have before me two amendments, Nos 374 and 86, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 374.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u283	I have already spoken on the subject, but I keep my promises: it is a matter of making the adoption of the governance pact mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u284	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u285	The governance pact between the municipalities and the public institution of intercommunal cooperation is a tool for improving the information of municipal councils and transparency in the organisation of intercommunal cooperation. It must therefore be made mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u287	Mr Cinieri, a moment ago you wanted to make the debate on the governance pact optional, a pact that you now propose to make mandatory! For the sake of consistency, I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, and I dare even make a request for withdrawal... I am against Mrs Untermaier's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u288	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u289	Mrs Untermaier's amendment was indeed consistent with her previous positions, but the Government's opinion was unfavourable. Mr Cinieri's amendment may be less consistent with his group's positions, at least – but it is obviously your right, Mr Cinieri. I, in turn, dare to suggest that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u290	Mrs Untermaier, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u291	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u292	Mr. Cinieri?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u293	[[Smile]] Minister, incoherence is a human being!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u294	[[Same movements]] That doesn't really answer my question...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u295	I withdraw my amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u296	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 930.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u297	In the last sentence of the fourth paragraph of the article, I propose that you write "If the deliberative body decides on such a pact, it shall adopt it within nine months [...]", rather than "if the deliberative body decides on the elaboration of such a pact, it shall adopt it within nine months [...]".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u299	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u300	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u301	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] Wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u302	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 461.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u303	The recognition of a governance pact between the municipalities and intercommunality at the beginning of the mandate is a good measure if the arrangements for drawing up this pact are part of a process of dialogue and consultation with the municipalities and their elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u304	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u305	Nothing will prevent the consultation of the municipal councils of the member communes. You can even think that it will be inevitable. That is why we have retained a nine-month development deadline. The procedure you are advocating would be too lengthy and binding. Once again, mayors must be given the freedom to organize themselves as they see fit. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u306	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u307	The proposed measure would lead to an increase in the procedure. The interest of the mandatory nature of the Conference of Mayors is to ensure that the Conference of Mayors is seized of the drafting of the Governance Pact. However, it is preferable, in my view, to leave only the deliberative body, i.e. the Community Council, the task of finally adopting the governance pact. Deliberating every city council would create heaviness where we aim for fluidity. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u308	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u309	I am not the author of the amendment; I do not allow myself to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u310	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 634, 83, 84, 375, 155, 1382 and 1587, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 84 and 375 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 155, 1382 and 1587. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 634.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u311	This appeal – and even provocative – amendment proposes to reduce the deadline for the development of the governance pact from nine to three months. Indeed, the nine-month period appears to be very long in view of the six-year mandate of the EPCI, the actual period of which would thus be significantly reduced. Of course, three months is short, and certainly unrealistic, given the deadline for the validation of the governance pact by the municipal councils, but the purpose of my amendment is to invite reflection on the process of drawing up the governance pact. Ideally, this process should take place prior to the election of municipal councillors. Indeed, I believe it is important for citizens to participate in the drafting of the governance pact and the resulting organisation for the EPCI.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u312	Mr. Balanant is a philosopher!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u313	I'm not a philosopher, I'm just saying a reality. In any event, the time frame for the development of the governance pact must be reduced. How to present the political project of intercommunality at the time of municipal elections? That's what we need to think about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u314	You've never been mayor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u315	No, but I've been assistant for twelve years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u316	It's not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u317	It's not the same, is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u318	Colleagues, please let Mr Balanant speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u319	The aim is to enable a political project to be drawn up in each intercommunality. As a citizen, you vote for a political program, then the EPCI announces the construction of an intercommunal pool that you have never heard of! The governance pact makes it possible to design an intercommunal policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u320	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u321	It is intended to clarify that the signing of a governance agreement between the EPCI and its constituent municipalities must take place within four months of the general renewal of the municipal councils.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u322	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor again to support Amendment No 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u323	[[Smile]] He proposes a period of six months, which I would prefer...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u324	I call Mrs Cécile Untermaier to support Amendment No. 375.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u325	The Socialist and Related Group proposes a period of six months, i.e. the same time limit as the EPCIs have to draw up their rules of procedure – I agree with you on this point, Minister. Nine months is too long. The development of the pact must not become a gas plant; It's a case that needs to be dealt with. Nine months to establish rules of procedure! I don't know how soon we developed the National Assembly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u326	We don't know either, we weren't in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u327	...but such a long delay is not possible. For our part, we consider a period of six months to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u328	Mr Robin Reda has the floor to support Amendment No. 155.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u329	On the contrary, it tends to extend the time limit from nine to twelve months. I understood, however, that I was not defending the same line as the speakers in my group. I will therefore withdraw my amendment. However, I would like to defend him because he is one of the few of the many I have tabled who have been found admissible...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u330	If you remove him, don't bother defending him, Mr. Reda.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u331	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] Let me have this pleasure, Mr President, especially since two identical amendments will then be defended. When the governance pact is optional, a period of more than nine months would allow municipalities that have not adopted one to reconsider their decision. Let us not despair the local elected officials! The decision to draw up a governance pact could occur in the first year of their mandate, if they are conquered by the intercommunality in use.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u332	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] After Mrs Untermaier's enthusiasm, there was Mr Reda's pleasure. I am delighted that this bill is under such auspices! Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier, to support Amendment No. 1382.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u333	Inspired by the Assemblée des communautés de France, ADCF, an expert in the field of intercommunality, it proposes a period of twelve months, rather than nine, to adopt the governance pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u334	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor to support Amendment No. 1587.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u335	He also participates in this fair with good ideas! Since the governance pact will have to integrate such broad issues as the sharing of services or financial aspects, elected officials must have sufficient time to develop it. The amendment therefore proposes a maximum period of 12 months, even if there is nothing to prevent it in three months, as Mr Balanant has suggested, or in six or nine months, as others have proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u336	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u337	Mr. Balanant himself spoke of provocation about his amendment. I therefore ask him to withdraw it. Frankly, a period of three months is far too short to allow action. As for the other amendments, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that when municipal elections are held, it is not uncommon for litigation to be brought before the administrative court. I have the memory of by-elections that had to be held after the July cancellation of elections that took place in March. A period of nine months therefore seems quite appropriate: it sets the deadline at 31 December of the current year and ensures the readability of public policies. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u339	On this point, we must show common sense. Municipal elected officials were elected at the end of March and usually took office in April. Setting the deadline at the end of December, i.e. at the end of the current calendar year, has the merit of clarity and simplicity. The rapporteur was right to recall the average deadline for the administrative court – I am not talking about the Council of State! – to validate municipal elections. Our goal is first and foremost to give freedom and confidence. However, I have the weakness to think that we will achieve this better if the deadline is long than if it is too short. Whether this deadline is nine or twelve months is probably not of great importance for the governance pact, but twelve months is too long for the rules of procedure. However, I very much want the time limit to be the same in both cases. If we were to do otherwise, our local elected colleagues might think we're crazy! It therefore seems preferable to maintain a period of nine months; It is, in a way, a good compromise. As we know, every time period is set has a threshold effect. This is an average delay – which is also the time of pregnancy: a symbol!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u340	The governance pact and the rules of procedure: they will be twins!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u341	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u342	I also believe that a period of nine months is a maximum. In the long run, it is hoped that the governance pact will include a financial part. If it was voted one year after the election, it was two budgets that would not have been able to implement financial solidarity. However, a period of nine months would allow the measures decided collectively to be applied in the first year of the first intercommunal budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u343	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u344	May I have a note of humor, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u345	We're asking you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u346	I am in favour of a period of nine months, but what will be the sanction if the governance pact is only adopted after ten or eleven months? None! So let us not fight the deadlines: they are indicative. Unless the minister tells us that it is beyond nine months, it will no longer be possible to adopt a governance pact. That is not what I have understood, but perhaps the rapporteur and the minister have some clarifications on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u347	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u348	Why did the members of the Socialist and Related Group propose a period of six months? Intercommunities are now at the end of their mandate: obviously, the period is not conducive to commitments. With a delay of nine months, the elected representatives will be busy discussing the governance pact and the functioning of intercommunality until December 2020. Six months seems preferable to avoid inertia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u349	Important decisions must be taken before the governance pact is adopted; That way, it's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u350	This is largely sufficient time to draw up both the rules of procedure and the governance pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u351	Mr Balanant, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u352	I withdraw it because it was an appeal amendment: as I said, it is obviously not possible to draw up a governance pact in three months. I would like to reiterate, however, that although we have chosen a system in which community councillors are not elected by direct suffrage, one day or another we will have to give ourselves the means to design political programmes at the level of inter-communities. In the smallest intercommunities, there is never a political vision before the election. That was the meaning of my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u353	I call Mr Baudu to support Amendment No. 1588.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u354	The aim is to provide, during the drafting phase of the governance pact, for the advice of the municipal councils of the municipalities members of the EPCI. Indeed, the debate that will arise in the municipal councils will inform the elected representatives and enrich the governance pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u356	It is up to each EPCI to involve the municipal councils in the development of the governance pact as it sees fit. Unfortunately, the mechanism you are proposing cannot be retained: it would add a great deal to the development of the governance pact. Request for withdrawal, therefore; failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u358	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u359	Would you like to withdraw your amendment, Mr Baudu?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u360	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u361	Amendment No 319 by Mrs Béatrice Descamps is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u362	Under these conditions, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u363	I have before me two identical amendments, No 1266 corrected and 1589 corrected. Mr Vincent Bru has the floor to support Amendment No. 1266 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u364	I'll let Mrs. Blanc defend him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u365	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor to support Amendment No. 1589 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u366	We talked about the governance pact and its content, but we did not say that its purpose was to develop the project of intercommunality. That is the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u367	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u368	It is indeed legitimate to want not only to bring fluidity to the device, but also to give it meaning. I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u369	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u370	[[Smile]] I'm always booked when you make the law too talkative. However, I recognize that the proposed clarification does not hurt. Positive wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u371	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u372	Honestly, I'm starting to get lost. We voted for an amendment to the Finance Bill for 2020, which provides that an inter-municipality signing a city contract has an obligation to sign a financial pact before 31 December 2020, under penalty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u373	And what a punishment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u374	This consists of paying the municipalities concerned a DSC – a Community solidarity grant – at least equal to 50% of the evolution of the annual resources of the EPCI. It's not neutral! At the same time – since the two measures were not intended to be merged – the EPCI will eventually establish a governance pact, which will also have financial aspects: the amendments under discussion mention "the mobilization of the necessary financial resources [...] [for the development and implementation of the public policies of the EPCI]". There will therefore be two documents in the same year dealing with these aspects. Why not pool these different devices? If not, there will be two contradictory texts which will apply at the same time. I'm trying to warn you about this legal inconsistency, but nobody takes it into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u375	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u376	I find these amendments to be talkative. They propose a definition of the governance pact, but remain unclear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u377	Enrich her!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u378	It is not a good thing to be imprecise when writing the law, even though, in this case, the following paragraphs 6 et seq. are clear on what is the governance pact: it is stated that it may provide for the establishment of specialized committees and territorial conferences of mayors, the conditions under which the President of the EPCI may delegate to the mayor of a member commune the commitment of certain expenses, etc. The content of the pact is therefore clear, and we will then consider amendments to further clarify it; In all cases, it deals with governance. However, the amendments under discussion blurred the definition of "human and financial resources". This is a confusion of the genres. Without fully joining Mr Pupponi, it should still be recalled that a governance pact first has to clarify how decisions are made, not how they are implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u379	That's right! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u380	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u381	I fully associate myself with what my colleague Schellenberger has just said. A governance pact is there to regulate the ways of doing things within the intercommunality; Here, we come to a blunder in which the elected representatives would be obliged, within the shorter period of nine months, to mention a whole set of subjects which would not require an initial agreement. These amendments do nothing but perhaps serve as a crucible for proposals emanating from a host of study offices that will rush to the gates of the intercommunities, a fortiori when they are driven by inexperienced elected officials, to have them draw up agreements without any meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u382	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u383	I am not in favour of these amendments on the substance. In addition, they pose a drafting problem: what do "governance means" mean? I suppose the authors meant "rules of governance." If you want to, go ahead, I will not make it a tragedy, but it is not useful to vote for similar amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u384	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u385	Two debates are held in parallel. Mr. Pupponi has raised a very important issue that I would like to find a solution to. Anyone who has been elected to an EPCI involved in a city contract knows what is happening, even if I understand that those who have not been confronted with it do not clearly grasp this very specific issue which relates to the wealth and resources allocated, knowing that, in the same EPCI, one or more communes can enter into the framework of the QPV – the priority districts of the city policy – and be surrounded by communes that are not there. Such situations are always a little tricky. At this point, Mr Pupponi, following your argument would pose a legal difficulty because the deadlines for city contracts are set out in the finance law – you had expressed your doubts about this in committee – 2022 since these contracts were extended for two years. In any case, they are not included in the general code of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u386	Now it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u387	They are found in the CGCC, but they are first included in the CGI, the general tax code. But it doesn't matter: the real issue is how to ensure that the financial pact linked to a city contract is annexed to the governance pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u388	That is the meaning of the amendments I proposed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u389	The ministry may do so by way of instruction to the prefect, if you wish, without going through the law; I shall state this in order to include it in the report published in the Official Journal. That's what I'm proposing, and even though I'm not sure that the proposal fully satisfies you, you've seen that I'm trying to do it every time – which sometimes gives me some trouble, you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u390	[[Smile]] Names!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u391	Either way, we'll try to find a solution to the problem you're talking about. [[Mrs Anne Blanc approves. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] I come to the amendments themselves. You know my frankness, Madame Blanc: they are not indispensable. You yourself don't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u392	Then give an unfavorable opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u393	But they would give the governance pact a basis for a better understanding of what we want to do there. In any case, I have no reason to oppose it, and I therefore do not express an unfavorable opinion. Hence the wisdom advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u394	They're not bringing anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u395	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u396	I understand that the purpose of my amendment is not the major issue in this text. Nevertheless, it sheds light on the governance pact: it is both about how we do and why – to serve public policies and the mission of elected officials, to empower them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u397	A governance pact does not define means but methods!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u398	I therefore propose here to recall the meaning of the governance pact, beyond its drafting modalities, in order to underline its interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u399	This is not the wording of your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u400	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u401	Minister, ten days ago, in this House, your appropriate minister, Ms Gourault, voted on an amendment that removes the reference to the CGI by repealing the VI of section 1609 noies C of that code, while creating a new article in the CGC. When the bill is passed, the intercommunities involved in a city contract will have to vote at the same time – on the same date! – a governance pact and a financial pact. And, in addition, the two amendments under discussion require that we also talk about financial problems in the governance pact! I am trying to warn about the risk of legal bugs: there will be two articles of the CGC that are complementary and contradictory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u402	He's not wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u403	Let's think, let's analyze, and try to make only one article. I tried to explain it in the law committee, but I wasn't understood, and what I'm trying to explain to you now: there's going to be a bug!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u404	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I shall put to the vote the amendments, which I would like to remind you are the subject of a wisdom opinion of the committee and of a "favourable wisdom" opinion of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, please! I repeat the minister's words here and ask you to respect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u405	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor to support Amendment No. 1591.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u406	I will certainly be told again that my amendment is not indispensable, since it proposes clarification, but it is a question of indicating that the list of themes of the governance pact listed in Article 1e r is not exhaustive and that it can also include others depending on the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u407	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u408	I do not imagine that the governance pact may contain provisions inconsistent with its purpose. Accordingly, request for withdrawal. Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u409	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u410	The drafting of the amendment tends to follow only a drafting logic since it is only a matter of opening up prospects to supplement the provisions of the pact without creating anything mandatory. Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u411	Mrs. White? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u412	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u413	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor to support Amendment No. 1099.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u414	My amendment aims to make the creation of a committee dedicated to the transparency of local public action mandatory within the specialised committees which can be created by the governance pact. If I raise this question here, it is because I would particularly like to stress the need to improve the transparency of the criteria for the allocation of day-care places. I had proposed in committee an amendment to this effect, to ensure that each municipality establishes objective criteria for the allocation of places and that these criteria are the subject of a deliberation by the municipal council, but it has unfortunately been declared inadmissible under Article 45 of the Constitution. It is totally incomprehensible to me: the question is directly related to this bill, since it deals with the powers of the mayor, the role of elected officials and local public action. I do not believe, of course, that a national list of the criteria for the allocation of day-care places should be imposed from the top, in particular because of the principle of the free administration of the communes: on the contrary, the latter must be given the freedom to choose these criteria so that they can as much as possible meet the needs of the territory. But I am convinced that these criteria must be made transparent everywhere. Greater equity in the criteria for the allocation of day care places was also one of the promises of candidate Emmanuel Macron. In June 2018, Minister Agnès Buzyn and Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa entrusted an interministerial mission to Elisabeth Laithier, co-chair of the working group on early childhood within the Association of Mayors of France, in order to make the criteria for the allocation of places in communal crèches more effective and transparent. In fact, elected officials sometimes find themselves accused, often unfairly, of practicing in this regard at the best of favouritism, at the worst of clientelism. Being elected locally is a wonderful commitment that we need to highlight, and that is what this bill is all about. But reinvigorating our institutions and reinvigorating dialogue with our fellow citizens also means being able to be accountable. And if, without a doubt, the local elected officials administer with all the impartiality, diligence, dignity, probity and integrity prescribed by the local elected official's charter, we must sometimes go further by formalizing this contract of trust through strong and concrete actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u415	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u416	Mrs. Carrière, the issue of nursery places is a real problem. However, unfortunately, the mechanism that you are proposing to include in the law, namely "a committee dedicated to the transparency of local public action", opens a field too broad and imprecise for me to give a favourable opinion on your amendment. In the absence of a withdrawal, the opinion would therefore be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u417	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor to support Amendment No. 1267.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u418	It provides for the functioning of the conferences of mayors to be determined by the governance pact. It is not mandatory, but when it exists, it seems to me that it should determine this aspect rather than the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u419	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u420	Disfavorable: the amendment would make the text redundant. So it's useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u421	I call Mrs Mette to support Amendment No. 1362.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u422	It aims to introduce more democracy and to allow a real link between the conference of mayors and the EPCI office, which would ensure full support for the Community project. In some specific cases, all EPCI mayors should be involved in decision-making. The mayors of small municipalities, better represented in the conference of mayors, would also no longer feel marginalized in the EPCI.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u423	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1513 and 376, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 1513.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u424	It seeks to clarify the role that the conference of mayors could play in providing advice and guidance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u425	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 376.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u426	Very close to Amendment No 1513, it aims to ensure a logical link between the conference of mayors – or, failing that, the office – and the governance pact with intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u427	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u428	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u429	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u430	It is unfavorable, because the amendments tend to create an obligation. However, the failure to include this referral in the law will obviously not prevent elected officials, when drafting their governance pacts, from specifying any local obligations they wish to undertake. If they decide that, for a given subject – budget, urbanism, etc. – the conference of mayors must be seized of the right of deliberation and give an opinion, they will be able to do so without it being necessary to introduce it by legal means. This is in the interest of the mechanism, which makes it possible to adapt to the territorial reality: some subjects will be considered sensitive and deserve a referral to the conference of mayors in some EPCIs, while they will be the subject of a broad consensus in other territories. With Mr. Pupponi, we talked about the city's policy: an urban community, one of which has a QPV, for example, could very well include in its governance pact that the conference of mayors should be systematically consulted on this issue. In my opinion, the system works very well in this way. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendments, since the requests contained therein are, in many respects, already satisfied. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u431	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u432	I withdraw my amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u433	Is your amendment retained, Mrs Untermaier?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u434	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u435	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 352, 520, 580, 963, 1028, 1216, 1366 and 1124, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 352, 520, 580, 963, 1028, 1216 and 1366 are identical. Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor to support Amendment No. 352.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u436	It aims to extend the scope of the Governance Pact, which should determine the scope of decisions to be voted by secret ballot by the EPCI deliberative body. It seems necessary, in certain cases, to provide for such a vote, in particular when that deliberative body is called upon to take a decision on certain matters relating to intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u437	I call Mr Sebastien Leclerc to support Amendment No. 520.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u438	It was written by my colleague Josiane Corneloup, to whom I wish a speedy recovery. The following paragraph should be inserted after paragraph 9: "The Covenant shall determine the deliberations which shall be the subject of a secret ballot. » The amendment aims to extend the scope of the governance pact so that it also determines the scope of decisions to be voted by secret ballot by the legislative body of an EPCI. It seems necessary, in certain cases, to provide for a secret ballot, in particular when that deliberative body is called upon to decide on certain matters concerning intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u439	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 580.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u440	I withdraw it in favour of Amendment No 579.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u441	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to support Amendment No. 963.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u442	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u443	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 1028.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u444	It is intended to insert, after paragraph 9, the following paragraph: "The Covenant shall determine the deliberations which shall be the subject of a secret ballot. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u445	I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 1216.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u446	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u447	Amendment No 1366 by Mrs Sophie Mette is being defended. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1124.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u448	It takes up a recommendation of the Association des mayores rurales de France and aims to extend the scope of the governance pact, so that it defines the decisions that should be the subject of a secret ballot. I will not go back to the difficulty of speaking or the differences in weight that may exist between mayors or local elected representatives in certain intercommunalities. We believe that secret ballot voting is a good way of putting all parties on an equal footing on certain issues defined in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u449	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u450	We have already discussed the subject at length: the rules for secret ballot voting already exist. They are defined in article L. 2121-21 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, which provides that secret ballot voting is mandatory at an important moment in the establishment of the communities, namely appointments. It is up to each community, whatever its nature, size or character, to stick to this article. Your request could lead, if granted, to requests for secret ballots, even for unanimous deliberations among the members of the deliberative body. For all these reasons, I call for the amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u451	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u452	I will make a substantive argument and a legal argument. On the substance, first of all, I find satisfactory the provisions of the CGC which trigger the secret ballot vote in two cases: first, for any nomination or presentation of a candidate – for example to an OAC, a tender commission –...;
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u453	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u454	...secondly, when a third of the members demand it. That's common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u455	And it works well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u456	The legal argument is related to section 1: by abandoning your legislative power, you would be guilty of negative incompetence. You cannot refer to deliberation in a community council, even by providing it in the rules of procedure or in the governance pact, for decisions that would derogate entirely from the law. Such a measure would, in my view, be unconstitutional. For these reasons, I ask for the amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u457	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u458	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u459	I will add to the two excellent arguments put forward by the minister a third relating to the circumstances in which these votes would take place: an EPCI usually uses secret ballot voting when things do not go very well. The use of this method of voting would thus only worsen debates which are already dysfunctional: this is an additional reason to vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u460	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to support Amendment No. 532.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u461	It is intended to add, after paragraph 9, the following paragraph: "The Pact provides for the mutualisations exceeding the territorial framework of the entities making up it vis-à-vis third communes, public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation and the poles of territorial and rural equilibrium, which may be associated with the process of mutualisation defined by the Pact for the implementation of a joint project. » The purpose of the amendment is to promote the rapprochement of territorial entities by pooling their resources and competences, taking into account the daily reality of the inhabitants and their basin of life, and not exclusively that of territorial division.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u462	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u463	He's unfavorable. It has been mentioned several times: freedom, freedom,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u464	Honey!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u465	... freedom – honey, yes – about the governance pact. To accede to your request would be to limit one aspect of intercommunal policy to the binding content of the governance pact. Request for withdrawal. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u466	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u467	I see the interest of your amendment, Mr Morel-à-L'Ouissier, but such a measure seems to me difficult to include in the law. The governance pact is intended to govern the relations between intercommunality and its member communes. If it makes any wish for a relationship of good intelligence or cooperation with neighbouring entities, this wish may be included in the governance pact without the need to create a legal basis. Creating a legal basis would lead to the inclusion in a governance pact of provisions that might not be synallagmatic...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u468	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u469	... and whose binding force would not extend to neighbouring intercommunality, which would seem to me delicate. It would be like trying to force cooperation for school equipment: if the neighbouring intercommunality does not deliberate in the same direction and does not include the same provision in its governance pact, cooperation cannot work. In addition, other legal tools exist, such as mutualization schemes, mirrored cooperative deliberations, or territorial agreements. In the present case, by adopting your amendment, we would introduce into the governance pact an element whose scope would exceed the territory of the relevant EPCI. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, to the benefit of a local freedom which will not create any particular disturbances. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u470	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr Morel?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u471	As the minister's arguments stand, I withdraw him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u472	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 579.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u473	[[Smile]] Amendment which has absolutely no synallagmatic character, Mr President. When I presented this proposal in committee, it concerned the conference of mayors. As the amendment had fallen into the hands of the legislative mechanisms, the Government suggested to me that it would be more relevant to do so in relation to the governance pact. So I repositioned it. The objective is to allow, beyond the rules of governance, which are ultimately relatively unbinding, to lay down in the governance pact binding rules for the exercise of specific competence. I am thinking – at random – of a community of communes or a community of agglomeration that would decide to exercise jurisdiction over PLUI, but whose members would like to retain guarantees as to how decisions affecting the communes or certain territories will be taken. In the discussion on how to transfer a jurisdiction, the EPCI could thus compel itself on how to exercise that jurisdiction. That is the meaning of this amendment, which seems to me to be in favour of establishing a relationship of trust and in line with the Tocquevilian vision that a community can decide locally to organize itself as it wishes to exercise jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u474	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u475	Your amendment bothers me, Mr Schellenberger: if I read it carefully – what I am doing – I find that it tends to entrust the governance pact with the task of determining the conditions for exercising a transferred competence. But the competence, once transferred to the EPCI, which becomes fully responsible for it, must be exercised, quite simply. I am afraid that by referring to the notions of coercion and the sustainable exercise of this competence, you would implement a logic that would lead some elected officials to leave the framework of the law – for everything is always possible in our beautiful humanity. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, which is not applicable as it stands. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u476	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u477	I understand the logic of establishing intra-Community differentiation – this is basically the idea behind your amendment. Some possibilities already exist: the lock – or the tap, depending on – of the community interest allows this differentiation for certain equipment, even if it is not always possible for public service policies. However, the wording of the amendment is problematic. Moreover, it is not a reproach: after trying to help you in this task, since we are convinced on the merits, we are also unable to find a legal wording that is perfectly appropriate. However, practically the proposed wording would allow a community councillor to derogate from the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u478	That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u479	You may have been elected local or still, but you are first and foremost a legislator and, from this point of view, it is still difficult to imagine a power of derogation from the law. When such a power exists, it is, as you know, very framed. This is not the case in the amendment as drafted, which may concern almost any jurisdiction among those which the law, in many codes, organizes in accordance with the decisions that you, legislator, for all kinds of reasons, have taken in the field of public policy. So, a single deliberation could put down this whole building! More generally, it is difficult to write differentiation, a fortiori without constitutional revision. I therefore call for the withdrawal of this amendment, which I consider to be an appeal amendment – as I repeat, the Government is quite inclined to embark on this path.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u480	Mr Schellenberger, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u481	I do not entirely agree with Mr Questel's reading. Indeed, the second sentence of the amendment makes it clear that the rules are "defined at the time of transfer" of competence. I understand that the terms "binding and lasting" may raise a problem, but it may happen that, in an EPCI where the transfer of competence is not mandatory – let's think of PLUI – and where mayors and an intercommunal president decide to work together in the name of a best interest of the territory while retaining certain guarantees that can only hold to the trust that reigns between these elected officials, it is necessary to be able to freeze this guarantee. Thus, a president of EPCI cannot today commit himself to systematically obtaining the favourable opinion of a commune before changing the urban planning rules that concern it, although this may be particularly necessary. So I do not think the amendment is so unbalanced. In fact, it does not apply to any jurisdiction, but to a specific jurisdiction and at the time of its transfer. The intention is clear; I'll hold on to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u482	I call Mr Baudu to support Amendment No. 1269.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u483	The delegation of all or part of a jurisdiction exists in the general code of territorial authorities, in particular in the descending sense, for example from a region or departments to an EPCI. The amendment seeks to allow, within the framework of the governance pact, to open the debate in order to make possible the transfer of all or part of an EPCI competence to one or more municipalities. This arrangement, which is similar to the one proposed by the Minister for Water and Sanitation skills, could be quickly discussed and decided by the EPCI and the municipalities as soon as all parties agree, and would also be doubly secure by the establishment of the governance pact and by the convention, as well as for water and sanitation competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u484	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u485	Mr Baudu, if I follow your logic, the governance pact could provide that an institution of intercommunal cooperation should relegate, in the descending sense, all its powers to the municipalities which make up it. The application of such devices on the ground would represent a real risk. I am therefore obliged to express an opinion against this amendment – unfortunately, because it raises a real question, that of the fairness of the functioning of the EPCIs in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u486	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u487	I note that this amendment was co-signed by all the members of the MODEM Group, but Jacqueline Gourault is not in favour of it. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u488	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] If Mrs. Gourault is against...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u489	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u490	Minister, this is an argument of authority! I did not know that ministers had authority over parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u491	[[Smile]] The one we're talking about has authority over me, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u492	We are reinventing a self-taxed intercommunality that is an à la carte SIVOM. We are in the midst of a contradiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u493	We don't stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u494	We cannot accept such an amendment, which emptys the text of its principle. I shall return to that earlier on other proposals which are not on the road either. How do our colleagues think they can finance intercommunality through taxes that have the same rate for all taxpayers in the community of communes and relegate a tax-funded skill? Will it be necessary to pay the cost of the service? It would then be a delegation agreement or a kind of concession. Don't put your finger in such a system!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u495	I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 1232.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u496	This amendment seems important to me. In the course of the major debate, it was repeatedly mentioned that former "headquarters" of the community of communes that had had to join larger communities or agglomerate themselves had often done so for the benefit of the central city and at the expense of maintaining community services nearby in the territory. This is one of the irritants of the NOTRE Act: municipalities with a central role and community services are no longer recognized as major hubs within their territory. It therefore seems important to me that we should be able to define, in the governance pact, where the centres of Community services are located, how the Community service is organised in the territory, particularly for large intercommunalities, and where, so to speak, the principle of subsidiarity in the community applies, since not everything is necessarily meant to go back to the centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u497	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u498	Mr Rebeyrotte, I can only deliver an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendment. Indeed, the governance pact is not the political programme of the majority of the moment within the public institution of intercommunal cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u499	Oh, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u500	The aim is to restore to the mayors, within the intercommunality, the capacity to ensure the proper implementation of this in the communal territory. In this case, the situation of the poles you refer to is often determined by urban planning documents – PLUI or territorial coherence schemes. Finally, the mechanism you are proposing may have its relevance, but your amendment tends to be fixed at the time of drawing up the governance pact, i.e. at the beginning of the term of office, whereas it is during the course of the term of office, after a few years, that one can see, for example, the need to modify an organisation. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u501	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u502	This is not the role of the Governance Pact, which is intended to govern political, administrative and, where appropriate, financial relations between the municipalities within the framework of the EPCI, the EPCI with the municipalities or the municipalities with the EPCI. Another document, the Rules of Procedure, specifies the operation, in law, of deliberative assemblies – the Community Council, Community committees and, to a much lesser extent, the conference of mayors. A third text, the statutes of intercommunality, specifies the optional powers that have been taken, the Community interest and the mode of operation associated with it. The Community Council then votes on various policy documents, which are the ones that you include in the law – PLUI or SCOT if necessary, and others, such as the PADD, the development and sustainable development project. I therefore do not think that the issues raised in the amendment fall within the scope of the governance pact itself. If we do not want elected officials to be lost in everything we are in the process of imagining, we must bring together a document, a tool and a mission. The governance pact, I repeat, reflects the political, administrative and, at times, financial – but to a lesser extent – relationship between mayors, intercommunality, community councillors and municipal councillors. On the outside, this may seem odd, because they are often the same people, but they still need to be fluidized. The poles, on the other hand, refer to other strategic documents which fall within the remit of the Community Council. I therefore call for the withdrawal of this amendment, so that we do not put our finger on other mechanisms. Why should we not talk about the competencies in the governance pact in this regard? But if we did, where would we stop?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u503	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1268, 1394 and 1573. Mr Vincent Bru has the floor to support Amendment No. 1268.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u504	It aims to change gender parity within the CIPE. This has changed considerably since, thanks to the voting system, the councils of municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants now have the same number of women and men. This is also the case for the regions and, since a more recent date, for the departmental councils, with the binomies. For CIPOs, it is difficult to achieve parity due to the way in which the members of the community councils are appointed. The amendment therefore seeks to ensure that, in the governance pact, which is optional, the objectives of improving gender parity in governance bodies can be defined – I would point out that this last word must be written in singular, not in plural, as is the case by mistake in the text of the amendment – and even in the committees of the public institution. It is, therefore, not a question of imposing parity – which is impossible – but of encouraging reflection on the means of gradually reaching it, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 1 of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u505	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 1394.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u506	We have made great progress in committee by lowering the threshold for the start of the list vote for communes of less than 500 inhabitants, which will allow these communes to have joint lists. The aim of this amendment is to make it possible to take a new step by leaving the possibility of including in the governance pact the possibility for EPCIs to ensure parity within their bodies. I hope they take advantage of this new tool. It is now clear that mayors' conferences and community offices may sometimes lack women's representation. That is what we want to remedy by including such a mechanism in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u507	I call Mr Baudu to support Amendment No. 1573.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u508	This identical amendment also tends to give a strong signal in favour of parity within the EPCI. Our discussions have shown that it would be difficult to make significant progress in this area over the next few years through the joint list vote. On the other hand, on the basis of volunteerism, in the framework of an optional governance pact, we can open the debate and ensure that the EPCI and all the bodies that depend on it take charge of themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u509	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u510	Opinion in favour of these three amendments. During the preparation of this bill, I had the opportunity to make several trips in the ridings of several of you, including that of our colleague Leclabart, in the Somme. I have been able to assess the importance of opening the debate on parity within the EPCI bodies, particularly within the framework of the governance pact, in order to prepare minds for the stages of 2026 and subsequent stages, for the proper application of the rules of parity that we will establish and which will have to be deployed within these institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u511	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u512	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u513	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u514	This amendment only serves to give you a good conscience. Indeed, it allows a reflection on parity but, in reality, if there is only one delegate per municipality in an EPCI and if, for example, small communes backed by large cities, these delegates are mostly men or women, or even in the case of odd numbers, parity will not be possible. The mechanism you intend to implement depends not on the election of the members of the community council but, above all, on the different municipal elections which, on the basis of the vote and the dangling of the community delegates, will delegate a particular person not on the basis of his or her gender, but of his or her competence. Your amendment is therefore an appeal amendment, which only increases the text. I repeat, it gives you good conscience, but does not serve much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u515	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u516	It's an amendment to please yourself! In fact, you write in your amendment that the pact "can foresee" the objectives; If he wants to do so, he would have to write that he "plans them."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u517	It's not mandatory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u518	For he can already foresee them: it is useless to write it. Secondly, it is about political commitment and love: I prefer the evidence to the great statements. It is true that we face concrete problems. While there are many women in the office of my intercommunality, it was necessary to insist on some of them joining him. But this is part of our work within the inter-communities. [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] This amendment has no scope. All parliamentarians will vote for it for fear of saying that they don't like women – which is not my case! I can assure you. She was also a woman – whom I had a little trouble convincing – who succeeded me to the town hall of Vanault-les-Dames. If we vote for this amendment, we're happy, it doesn't eat bread.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u519	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u520	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Anne Blanc also applauds]] I am a woman, elected local, and I am very much in favour of this amendment. Of course, women are elected mayors. Unfortunately, within the Community Councils, there is nothing to prevent the Vice-Presidents and the President from being all men, and that is what actually happens. I come from a community of communes with eleven men among its vice-presidents!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u521	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u522	The debate on the relationship between skill levels and gender is being sluggish. We still have some progress to make regarding the position of women in the EPCI – beyond their presence in the Community office, for example, it concerns committee presidencies. Even if what is provided for in this amendment is purely declarative and depends on the goodwill of the communes – since it was decided that the governance pact would itself be optional – this is a good step forward, which complements the one we allow in Article 11 bis A.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u523	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-18-O1073.u524	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further consideration of the draft law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. The meeting is adjourned.
