ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2187, 2243).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u2	This morning, the Assembly continued its consideration of the articles of the bill. It heard the opinion of the Commission and the Government on the amendments under joint discussion Nos. 2055-2408 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u3	I will give the floor to those speakers who wish to speak on these amendments, beginning with Mrs Annie Genevard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u4	I will not go back to the judgments of the Council of State, which Mrs Custody of Seals has emphasized in its singularity. These are in concreto judgments, dealing with specific situations, which cannot be invoked to generalize post-mortem assisted procreation in this law. Mr Touraine, you said that the Council of State called for the approval of the post-mortem LDC, but in its July 2018 study the Council of State wrote: "On this issue, there is no legal argument for the legislator, who will have to rule in an opportune and consistent manner with all the rules applicable to the MPA. We cannot therefore say, unless we extrapolate from the comments of the Council of State, that it asks us to legislate to allow the post-mortem LDC. As part of the hearings conducted by the special commission, Dr. Lévy-Soussan said that the child's psychological requirement was more important in the context of reproductive medical assistance – AMP. In the context of a post-mortem LDC, this requirement is even greater. I therefore fully share the view of the Minister for Health and Solidarity: in this case the precautionary principle must be applied. Dr. Lévy-Soussan added that accepting the post-mortem LDC principle would abolish the difference between life and death. It is a psychic risk that we do not have the right to make the child run.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u6	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u7	This subject has been of great concern to us in a special committee, giving rise to a sincere and powerful debate. I hear that for a woman who has just lost her husband or companion, it is an additional pain to learn that she will not be able to use the embryo from their love and parenting project. Nevertheless – and that is what leads me to oppose the post-mortem LDC – it seems to me that if we allowed this possibility, the disadvantages would outweigh the individual interest that she may have for a woman. These disadvantages are of several kinds. First of all, the child – whose best interests must be summoned here – would have to bear a particularly heavy story since he would continue the life of a deceased father as part of a parenting project that was driven by a drama of life. I do not believe that this House can take responsibility for accepting it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, the implementation and supervision of such a project may give rise to many difficulties. What time to mourn: one, two, three or six months? Who can define it? Who knows how long it takes a woman to mourn? Until when will the woman be able to use the embryo: one, two or three years after the death? Who can set this deadline again? I am not even talking about the consequences that such an authorization would have in matters of inheritance: the keeper of the seals has presented all the complexity of it. In such a configuration, the parental project completely changes in nature: initially leads to two, it is only by one person. In the best interests of the child and in view of the difficulty of applying this provision – which would concern less than one woman a year – our assembly must exercise all possible restraint and caution in this area. That is why I will vote against the post-mortem LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u8	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u9	Like many of the issues discussed in this bill, the proposal to allow a woman to pursue a parenting project after the loss of her spouse gives rise to positions that go beyond our partisan affiliations. In this area, no one can claim to have absolute truth – neither I nor the others. I would like to recall the current state of the law and the opportunities available to a woman on a journey from LDCs who has just lost her spouse. After the latter's death, he can donate his embryos to science, destroy them or donate them to a third party. This threefold choice is singular: telling a woman who has just lost her spouse that she cannot pursue the parenting project, but that her embryos can be used to build a third-party parenting project is somewhat cavalier. Moreover, with the opening of the LDC to single women, it would also - and it is legitimate - have the possibility of building a single parenting project. If this woman chose to donate her embryos to another woman, the provisions on access to the origins contained in article 3 would allow the child born of this gift to find the donor to thank her. In what situation would they find themselves, the donor and the child born of her gift, when she would tell her that it was not a sincere gift, but a result of the legal prohibition to perform pregnancy? We would put the donor like the child in a delicate situation. On the other hand, I believe that it is necessary to rely on the reason of women rather than systematically seeking to protect them on their own. A woman who has just lost her spouse – a terrible tragedy – may have the wisdom to pursue a parenting project or not. This decision must, of course, not be based solely on it, and it must be ensured that the deceased spouse has consented to it. For this reason, some amendments, including Amendments Nos 2218 and 2219 by the rapporteur Touraine, provide for the authorization of insemination or transfer of post-mortem embryos only if the deceased has given his prior consent to the continuation of reproductive medical assistance in the event of his death. These amendments also provide for advance notice periods: women must not be able to continue the parental project without a six-month period of reflection; Similarly, the period within which the project can be carried out must be limited so that the woman cannot use it about ten years later. The safeguards proposed in the amendments seem to me to be fully sufficient. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, we are all guided by the best interests of the child, but a child who would have to bear the weight of such a parenting project would at the same time be the object of the love and affection of the mother who would have pursued him. I do not know how to prioritize these two phenomena; That is why I rely on the judgment of the person concerned, in this case the woman, to decide whether to continue the project. On the other hand, a woman who would have been deprived of any opportunity to pursue her parenting project while giving her the option of using the LDC as a single woman would run the same risk in relation to the life course of a child born to an anonymous donor. Indeed, as the Minister of Health has pointed out, although we have all experienced deaths in our surroundings, we cannot anticipate the state in which we find ourselves after such an event. All of this is appreciated on an individual scale and each woman has the ability to make informed decisions. I will therefore support the proposal of rapporteur Touraine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u10	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u11	In my view, there are two aspects to this question. One, very practical, noted by many colleagues, touches on this rather ubiquitous situation where a woman would find herself obliged to give or destroy her embryo even though she could resort to the gametes of another donor and thus conceive a child with a genetic heritage that would not be the one corresponding to her parenting project. Secondly, beyond what I think is rather absurd here, there is a question of principle. I am struck by the way in many situations of uncertainty, difficult, painful, women tend to be considered a vulnerable subject, to be protected from pressures that they may eventually experience, to protect from desires that would not be sincere and healthy for their child. It would therefore be a real step forward to consider that the woman herself will be able to decide whether or not to continue her parenting project after a journey accident as serious as a death may be, that she will be able to make this decision in an informed manner, with a number of safeguards. To allow the post-mortem LDC would therefore, in my view, be to show progress, but also to adopt an adult vision of women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u12	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u13	As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the LDC for all leads us to this kind of ethical impasse. I observe, moreover, that we must not put gametes and embryos on the same plane; and paragraph 6, he, mixes both. But could we return to the interests of the child, an issue that has disappeared somewhat from our debate, especially since this morning?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u15	If, on the day of insemination, the father has died for several months, how can the child who came from it imagine himself and build himself? Doesn't he have the absolute right to have his two parents alive at the time of insemination? With the post-mortem LDC, society will commit public resources to deliberately create orphaned children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u16	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u17	The bereaved woman may also be under very high pressure. One can even speak of personal torment to qualify his decision to have or not to have this child, especially since the in-laws could try to influence him in one direction or the other. As we know, what is allowed is not always desirable. Don't we take the risk of putting the child in the position of the one born of mourning? This is a factor in psychological difficulties. Are we not going to assign to the child the role, real or supposed, of the replacement of the deceased man, when he should only be welcomed for himself? Will the woman's desire to procreate after the death of her spouse not be dictated by the illusory desire to see her survive through her child? Isn't she in danger of closing herself in her own mourning? The overprotection of the child by the mother, the idealization of the deceased father may also prove to be factors of fragility, especially at the time of adolescence. Trust in women, yes, but the law must protect them from pressure. As a precaution, here too, let the ethics of the child's vulnerability prevail by refusing the post-mortem AMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u19	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u20	To address the post-mortem LDC, please refer to the 2018 State Council Report. The issue is discussed on page 70. The Commission considers that "the approval of the post-mortem AMP appears to raise four levels of difficulty. » "First, it would allow for the birth of a child when his father died even before his conception, in the case of gametes, or before the beginning of his gestation, in the case of embryos. It would therefore be raised only by one parent, which is a vulnerability in itself. » "In addition, the fact of being born in a context of mourning is a situation that could mark the "identitarian narrative" of the child necessarily impacted by his father's mourning. » "In such a context, it may also be difficult to create the conditions for a soothing decision on the part of the mother, who may be influenced both by family pressures and by the impact of a very recent mourning, which makes it necessary to allow several months after the death before obtaining the consent of the woman. » "Lastly, in legal terms, if this technique were allowed, the law of filiation and the law of succession should be adjusted in order to fully integrate the child into the lineage of the deceased, while recalling that it has neither the object nor the effect of making the embryo or gametes preserved as subjects of law. » It is clear from this that your project poses more problems than it seems to solve. Our role as legislators is to arbitrate. Well, by weighing the pros and cons, we realize that there are obviously far more disadvantages than benefits to go in the direction you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u21	That's your opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u22	It is therefore probably not desirable for the law to make it possible for fatherless orphans to be born. Here too, reason should lead us to a little more measure. [[Mr. Thibault Bazin applauds]] Finally, all this is a perfect illustration of the domino effect of the text: from the moment the LDC is extended to women's couples and to women alone, the question of the post-mortem LDC arises. That is why we are opposed to this extension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u23	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u24	We are dealing with one of the most delicate and cruel questions raised by the bill, and far from me the idea of caricature of each other's positions. I fully understand the widow's request for a child. I still think it is our duty to say no. It is very difficult to say no to someone who is unhappy but it is sometimes the duty of society and third parties. I very much appreciated your words, Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health: it is not the woman who is fragile, it is the widow – and the widower is also so. I don't like to talk about my personal experience, but everyone comes here with their story. I was in mourning for a woman I loved and loved me. I know what that means. For several days, several months, you think, you live, you dream with her. We like to review the photographs, hear the voice recorded by chance, a few hours before, on its answering machine. We like to go where she liked to go. We like to meet the people she loved to meet. Similarly, we like to meet people who tell you about her – we don't know it, but it's very true. All this can justify the need, the child requirement. Just as we like to find, in children already born, their mother's face. But one must be able to mourn – one speaks now of a work of mourning –, express one's love in an intense way but by putting an end to this mourning. Life must prevail; "Let the dead bury the dead." We need to plan for the future. However, by giving her the opportunity to pursue the AMP, the young widow is forbidden to project herself into the future. We must thank the brother, the sister, the son, the daughter, the parents, the friend who explained to you that we had to turn the page. A child exists for himself. He is not meant to be a substitute for a being who has left us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u26	That's not what's being considered at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u27	A baby is not meant to console a brother or sister: it exists for itself; you have to give him every chance; It's not just the image of the being who left us. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Monique Limon, Brigitte Liso and Agnes Thill also applaud]] For all these reasons, I really believe, in spite of the cruelty, perhaps, of this answer, which must be said no, because it is our social duty and because we are here for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u28	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u29	The debate on the post-mortem MPA, following the opening of the MPA to single women, is fully legitimate. At the same time, I understand the psychological difficulty of having a child born to a deceased person and the setting of a deadline seems very arbitrary. How long does it take to mourn: three months, six months, one year, two years? What time frame is it then reasonable to use the MPA? I am aware that each situation has its own specificity: whether or not to resort to the gametes of the deceased; taking into account the path of medical assistance; whether or not there is a sibling... Difficulties related to filiation and succession arise. With regard to the prosecution of an MPA by a woman who has become a widow, I will defend at some point the idea that it is possible only in the event that it is carried out without the gametes of the deceased spouse and that the filiation is established in the name of the woman in question alone. With regard to the continuation of a project with the gametes of the deceased and taking into account the previous remarks, I find it preferable to rely on the case law to examine each situation in its particularities. [[Ms. Monique Limon applauds]] Finally, I come to the pursuit of a project by donating gametes or embryos for the benefit of another couple, and to the hypothesis that the resulting child might want to meet the donor. If gametes have been set aside or an embryo has been set aside in the specific context of a couple's project, then they should simply be destroyed in the event of the death of one of the spouses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u30	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u31	Since we opened the LDC last night to all women, it seems to me to be consistent that women can complete the parental project. And I don't want to talk about "PMA post mortem", but rather about "PMA giver of life". Beyond a concern for technical coherence, our debates make us hear testimonies that reflect life paths, emotions. So everyone will be able to vote consciously. I would like to reply to Mrs Genevard, who quoted Pierre Lévy-Soussan. Remember that this psychoanalyst nevertheless contributed to the Black Book of the alternating guard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u32	A sad reference.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u33	After questioning this form of support for children, he asked about the adoption of children by persons of the same sex. How, then, can we imagine that Mr Lévy-Soussan, among other well-known psychoanalysts, can approve the measure we have been discussing since this morning – with a great sensitivity and serenity that I greet? I would like us to talk together about the best interests of the unborn child, which is fundamental. Other psychoanalysts – especially Mrs. Françoise Dolto, who wrote a lot about all forms of families, whether they are classic, recomposed, single-parent, and I pass by – tell us that what matters for the balance of the child is not so much the reality of the father's presence as his presence in the mother's speech. It is well known that even in a classic family configuration, fathers may be absent – in the evening, when the child goes to bed, or in the morning, when he gets up. They are absent for professional reasons or because of life choices. In this case, I repeat, it is the father's presence in the mother's speech that is essential. We can therefore trust the women concerned, especially since in committee we have secured the composition of the clinicobiological team that will accompany them during various interviews. We have, remember, removed the psychological assessment for the benefit of interviews with a multidisciplinary team – including savoirs, nurses, psychologists or psychiatrists – that will make it possible to decide, in full consciousness, whether to accompany the project until the end – I do not mention the question of the delay. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you for listening to me. Be sure that it is in full awareness that I, for my part, will vote in favour of the life-giving LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u34	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-seven of you have yet to speak, do not be impatient: everyone will speak in turn!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u35	That will be my only intervention, Mr. President. I welcome the serenity of this debate, which is reflected in the listening we have just given to Mrs Wonner's plea. I remember another debate, at the time of the government led by Mr Manuel Valls, during which the latter and all the ministers present denied with the utmost determination the possibility that the Assembly might one day discuss the LDC or the gestation for others – GPA. How many times have we heard these denials? This shows that the commitments made today to ease our fears will not prevent them from becoming a reality in less than three years' time. Everyone is led, like me, to ask themselves the following question: how far will we go in our challenge to nature? Have we not paid enough for certain overflows that seemed anodizing? Are we in a society so happy that it can afford similar experiences? I really enjoyed what our colleague Le Fur said. When he or she left, we like what he did, what she did. Remembering is an essential thing, but she or he died, and with that death all the plans worked out together have disappeared. Of course, the plan to make a child is superior to all others, but, like the others, he is dead. Because of my very long experience as a departmental adviser on adoption issues, I have been passionate about the evolution of the attitude of adopted children over the last ten years, particularly under the influence of social networks. Yesterday, the adopted child was synonymous with happiness – it still sometimes remains – but it has become, many times, synonymous with misfortune. After talking to other children and surfing the web, he ends up saying one night to his father and adopted mother: "Why did you rip me off from the streets of Hanoi, Saigon or Algiers? That was where my life was; It's a selfish project on your part! » However, adoption has proved its worth in so many wars and misfortunes. Basically, there was no other choice. Today, as you know, there are hundreds of thousands of children who are no one's. If we did the same research as we did fortunately about the women who fall under the blows of their husbands, we would discover the incalculable number of children who are no one's, even in France. Would it not be so much better, so much stronger, so much more ethical, so much in line with the long anthropological history of man, that they are adopted? I wish with all my heart wrong, but the day comes when after happiness, questions come. I saw families ruin themselves and destroy themselves because they had sacrificed everything, for years, to adopt. But when the child knows that Dad was dead, or that a stranger gave his sperm, if he didn't sell it, that he had a surrogate mother – I'm talking about tomorrow, but the GPA is inevitable – what will his reaction be? I think the child is himself, and we don't have rights to him who didn't ask for anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u36	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u37	With this very sensitive subject, we are on a ridge line. It should be recalled, however, that it concerns only a dozen cases in ten years. I understand all the arguments put forward, in particular the absurdity of destroying the embryos of her own husband or companion to make a LDC with an anonymous donor. However, one can also imagine that the woman concerned will experience another story, another meeting, another conception. I wonder about the notion of choice. How to make a real choice, how not to be pressured? On the other hand, I'm not very comfortable with the argument in the phrase "Let's be progressive! Nor with the notion of progress in this matter. Whether you are a man or a woman in the 19th, 20th or 21st century, you remain human and fragile. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, in the best interests of the child, how can an orphaned child be conceived? There is a difference with the case of a pregnant woman who becomes a widow, because in this latter situation the embryo is already implanted. How can the orphan child not become the repairing child, the one who fills a mourning? What will be the psychological consequences for him of being caused by a deceased relative? I will vote against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u38	Mr Jean-François Eliaou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u39	As I explained during the debates in the Special Committee, I was first of all in favour of the post-mortem LDC for the sake of consistency, and I had thus expressed myself in a report on behalf of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices. However, the hearings, the meetings and the discussions led me to change my mind, and I would like to briefly explain the reasons for this. First of all, there are legal problems. Mrs. Keeper of the Seals has made them very clear. There is then the argument of the repairing child, even if it is tricky to handle, for lack of being able to put himself in the place of a child who was not born. I was also very touched by the testimony of our colleague Marc Le Fur. I would also like us to reflect on the difficulty for the legislator in setting the deadline beyond which widows would no longer be allowed to use the post-mortem LDC. To put it simply and sincerely, even as a Member of Parliament, I do not feel the right to include in the law what I consider to be family privacy. I would also like to mention a practical fact: failure is more frequent than success in LDCs. In other words, the probability that the widow will see her attempt fail is greater than that of success, which can be considered a double or even a triple sentence. Indeed, each failure may increase his or her sense of guilt. I come to the position of saying: frozen embryos, yes; frozen sperm, no. There have been amendments to that effect. Let's imagine that a man who is going to die did not have time to make an appointment or to go to a centre for the study and conservation of eggs and semen – CECOS – for an in vitro fertilization: why refuse a woman to use the frozen sperm of her deceased spouse? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Finally, could we not imagine dissociating the status of families according to whether or not they already understand children born naturally?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u40	Mrs Laëtitia Romeiro Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u41	Let me start from a concrete illustration so that we can weigh our collective decision together. Catherine and Pierre want to have a child, the fruit of their love. Unfortunately, Peter has just learned that he is seriously ill and that he must undergo heavy treatment that will make him sterile. He therefore takes the precaution to freeze his sperm. Together, Catherine and Pierre decide that illness and its risks do not call into question their desire to give themselves a child to love. They are therefore embarking on a path of LDCs. In vitro fertilization starts well, and an embryo, their embryo, exists. All we have to do is implant her at Catherine's, hoping for a pregnancy. But a few days before the implantation, Pierre died. Of course, his widow could legitimately decide to move on to another project, or even to abandon, at least immediately, the idea of having a child. The law already allows him to make this choice. However, Catherine, for personal reasons, decides that the late absence of her spouse does not call into question her will to be a mother, her willingness to welcome the embryo into her body. She is aware that the parenting project originally conceived can no longer be the same and that it must necessarily be different, but she thinks that the embryo – her embryo – does not have to be destroyed. Unfortunately, the law does not allow him to have this thought. She has no choice: she must accept the destruction of the embryo or abandon it to another woman; It must give up the idea of being a mother or be implanted with an embryo conceived with an unknown donor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a number of questions about this concrete situation. In the name of what can we tell a bereaved woman that she is no longer able to carry an embryo and raise the child she is waiting for? In the name of what can we say that another woman will be more able to do so? I heard the arguments about the interests of the child, but is it in the child's best interest not to be born? Aren't we wrong about this? It is not so much a question of whether it is appropriate for a woman who has lost her spouse to pursue her parenting project. This question, for my part, I am unable to answer it theoretically. It depends on multiple parameters, such as personal history, personality, or the way each person experiences mourning. The question we have to answer, on the other hand, is whether it is appropriate to leave the choice – I insist on this word – to these women whether or not to pursue their parenting project, the latter having necessarily evolved with the death of their spouse, but nevertheless remaining theirs. Personally, it seems to me better that the legislator should not pretend to be able to appreciate what should be done when a woman loses her spouse. I am both admiring and slightly afraid of those who are able to predict that a woman will necessarily weigh the weight of her mourning on the child and that she will necessarily project on him her desire to see his spouse survive. As for me, I will opt for a wiser and humbler position. I am not, as a Member of Parliament, the best place to appreciate all situations and I recognize that, despite all my conceptualization efforts, it is impossible for me to do the generalized psychoanalysis of women facing the loss of their spouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u42	Then it's the whole law that has to be overturned!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u43	It is they who are best placed to assess the opportunity to be implanted this embryo which is also theirs. Let us therefore take a step forward, ladies and gentlemen: with these amendments, it is not a question of encouraging the post-mortem LDC, but of leaving it to those concerned to appreciate the opportunity. In addition, it is a matter of avoiding Catherine from meeting in eighteen years against a young adult raised in another family and coming to thank her for her embryonic gift, when she wanted to keep this child and we deprived her of it. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM, SOC and FI groups. – Mr Pascal Brindeau also applauds]] Let us adopt a position of humility and support these amendments, in particular Amendment No 2218, which proposes an appropriate framework for the post-mortem LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u44	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u45	On the occasion of this bill, significant developments have taken place on the issue of post-mortem MPA. Personally, it was after a seminar at the Ministry of Health that I became in favour of it, and then changed my mind again. We, along with some of our colleagues here, have been considering authorizing it for our soldiers in external operations, potentially concerned with the conservation of gametes. But, as we have seen, sometimes the best is the enemy of good for the legislator. When we approached the issue with the military on the ground, they expressed strong opposition to that idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u46	Very interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u47	We are not always in the best position to decide certain issues. I hope, for my part, that this law on bioethics will be revised in five years' time, because, as Mrs Buzyn has pointed out, opening up to gamete conservation risks multiplying the cases for which the question of post-mortem MPA will arise. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I have proposed in committee that a report be drawn up and that we keep a close eye on the demands of the families. We must also prepare the law of succession in the perspective of the next law and a possible change of approach on the issue of post-mortem MPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u48	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u49	As many speakers have pointed out, the situations we are talking about are particularly painful and cruel. Death comes abruptly to interrupt a couple's story and a parenting project that has matured for many years, with all that this implies of hope, disappointment and often perseverance. Is the possibility of re-implanting an embryo a matter of women's rights and individual freedom, as I have heard in this House? Although ardent feminist, I don't think so. In my view, the post-mortem LDC is asking more about the relationship of our society to death. Forgive me for this truism, but death is part of life. It is the end, as it is, in the case of the death of a spouse, the end of the couple, the end of the parental project, the end of the ability to procreate. Beyond the interests of the child, the anthropological question at the heart of our debates is therefore the following: Is there an end? In other words, do we have to accept an end?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u51	It is essential that we accept death as the end. This is what makes our human condition, regardless of the pain experienced when death marks the end of a story and the ability to procreate. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, I will not vote for these amendments. We must give time to mourn and form the hope that life will reserve for women bereaved by other promises, other opportunities, other love stories and other parenting projects, different from the original project and this time entirely life-oriented.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u53	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In my view, there is no contradiction between what we voted in Article 1 and our opposition to the post-mortem LDC: we hope that all bereaved women can form a new parenting project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u54	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u55	I will be brief, since the interventions which preceded me have clearly presented the different positions in this debate, imbued with our own experiences and our particular paths. As for me, I am in the best interests of the child, and I say it quite clearly: I am not in favour of the post-mortem LDC because it weighs too much on the child. It will be impossible for him to build himself in a grieving family and his identity building will be hindered. To transmit life from a residue of death, even if the gametes were preserved from the living of the deceased spouse, leads, symbolically, to deliberately deprive a newborn child of a living paternal reference, in the line of filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u56	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u57	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and LR groups]] Which, ethically, for me, is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u58	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u59	This morning, before leaving us, you invited us, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, to reflect with humanity and reason. It is in this same spirit that I would now like to respond to the arguments that you and the Minister of Justice presented to us. With regard to the fears of possible deviations from the post-mortem AMP that you have expressed, Mrs Buzyn, and the consequences of her authorization in the best interests of the child, I find your arguments unconvincing. The amendment I tabled with several members of my group concerns only the embryo, not the gametes. The fact that the bill opens up for wider gamete conservation is therefore not an appropriate response. I heard Ms. Keeper of the Seals refer to the legal problems related to filiation and succession, which she described as "complex." They are, indeed, but they are not insurmountable. This is demonstrated by the opinion of the Council of State, which is concerned about the consistency of the reform and recommends that the Government authorize embryo transfer and post-mortem insemination if two conditions are met. First, the parenting project must be verified to ensure the consent of the deceased spouse or partner. This is reflected in a number of amendments tabled today for our debate. Next, a framework must be provided in time, with minimum and maximum time from the death to use the post mortem AMP. It is precisely a question of avoiding the problems of succession that you mentioned, Madam Keeper of the Seals, hence the amendments that we tabled to limit the use of the post-mortem MPA in time. In practice, succession periods are often much longer than those we propose. With good reason, that is, by identifying the legal problems that arise and by providing solutions, and with humanity, because all human situations are different and painful, it is therefore not a question of inciting post-mortem reproduction, but of giving women, if they consider themselves capable of pursuing the parenting project, the opportunity to complete the approach they have initiated with their deceased spouse. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is a new freedom and right that we must offer them. I will therefore personally vote in favour of the amendments allowing the post-mortem LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u60	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u61	Of the extremely sensitive situations that we are talking about, I will inevitably speak with dishoursiness, as they are heavy with considerable dramas and upheavals in the lives of individuals confronted with the break-up or, as has just been said, in the end. When a spouse dies in a couple, many things stop and change. Even when committed, the parenting project itself suffers the consequences of this death. It can only be modified by such a upheaval and changes in nature. The intentions that drive us and have been expressed today in our assembly are generous. I heard them and no one called them into question. I also heard the question, "Who are we to ban the post-mortem LDC? "Who are we to authorize it?" " But we must go beyond these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u62	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u63	We must assume our share of responsibility and explore other issues. What limits do we set? What limits do we respect? What limits do we accept? As I have already said in committee, I am troubled by all these questions and my reservations are numerous. We are setting foot on a very slippery terrain – as evidenced by the amendments aimed at setting a limit to this practice, without really knowing where to set it or why to set it... Indeed, it is clear that such a measure would alter our report to the AGP: I am thinking in particular of the possibility of following forward-looking management logics. My view is consistent with what I said on Tuesday evening in the general discussion and with the positions we are defending during the discussion of the text. Contrary to what has been said, the paradox would be even stronger if access to the MPA had not been opened to women alone; In this case, any insemination would be impossible, unless the widow did her life again, what was happening and what we could hope for many women facing this situation. The opening of the MPA to single women, which we decided yesterday, is therefore quite consistent. We can all cite personal experiences: many people around us, when it is not ourselves, have been confronted with such difficulties. What makes me think a lot is that the post mortem AMP puts the woman, or rather the surviving spouse, in the face of an extremely painful, dizzying dilemma, in a way cruel and perhaps even unsustainable. We can already see the very delicate questions that arise today when a spouse dies while a child is on the way, both in the person concerned and in his family and, more broadly, in his or her surroundings. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and LR groups. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] Ultimately, this is a somewhat exorbitant extension of human capacities, which would lead to the knowing birth of a child of a deceased father. For my part, I believe that other projects may be created – we are allowing them in this bill. These amendments raise questions of meaning that are too heavy and too much of a reservation to allow me to vote on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u64	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u65	This debate is indeed so complex! After listening to all of you, I would like to make an introductory remark: reducing the debate to an opposition between those who would like to allow the so-called post-mortem LDC, in the name of women's rights, and those who would like to prohibit it, in the name of the best interests of the child, would be to miss out on this debate. I do not believe that there are people on either side who are concerned only with women's rights or only with the best interests of the child. The question is, of course, whether or not the State has the possibility of reconciling these two imperatives in the context of a recent medical technique. Is it possible to pursue these two objectives sustainably in our society? Is the State capable of accompanying this complex choice of life, as Mr Dharréville once again pointed out? Finally, we did not ask this question very much. Among all the amendments we are discussing, very few propose to set up an evaluation and accompanying structure in the decision. That's the real stake! Of course, Mr. Le Fur is right: who can deny the violence of mourning in a life? Who can deny that we are not equal in the face of the violence of mourning in a life? Some will need to turn the page, but it may also be necessary to leave room for women who are resilient and wish to pass it on to a child. Many women raise children despite the loss of their spouse during a PMA pregnancy – their spouse could be very ill, and his illness could have occurred during the insemination period. Thus, we are talking about situations that already exist. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. -Mr. Brahim Hammouche also applauds]] Finally, the question is: How can we support these women in their work? Mr rapporteur, you are one of the few to have tabled an amendment proposing the establishment of a structure which allows and accompanies the choice of these women – a choice for which the State will be responsible – and which would be the Agency for Biomedicine. What tools will it have to support this resilience? How can we be certain that the child's identity narrative will not be that of mourning or reparation, but that of continuity? With the Conseil d'État, one may wonder "if it is not better for the child to be born from a post mortem AMP, which would allow him to have a bilinear filiation and to register in a double lineage, to create ties with his paternal family and to know the history and identity of his father, than that of an anonymous gamete donation. If we choose the casuistic and non-automatic authorization of an LDC, as part of a resilient parenting project, can you assure us that this decision can be taken under sufficiently well-informed conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u66	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u67	Some decisions of the Council of State and the Court of Cassation have forced the French State to return to women in mourning genetic material enabling them to benefit from an LDC abroad. However, in the context of this bill, we want to prevent these women and, more generally, all women from being forced to go abroad tomorrow to benefit from an LDC. My second point will be rather human. Much has been said about the grieving situation of these women and the repairing child. But isn't procreation always an act of reparation? We want to comfort ourselves with the end of our own lives, sometimes repair the death of a first child in an accident of life, or sometimes – we must recognize it with humility – try to repair a couple that is going wrong. The repairing child is therefore not an outrage or an "exorbitant paradox", as has been said. The repairing child is simply a component of life and the future. Madam Minister, you have called on our conscience to speak of the situation of these vulnerable women, faced with mourning and an environment that we do not know. We legislators must trust these women and give them the freedom to make this decision, based on a project developed with a deceased spouse, and of course providing for support by the multidisciplinary team, composed of doctors and other professionals, who will take care of them. We must offer these women that hope, that opportunity, and not prohibit them by rejecting these amendments. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For my part, I withdraw my three amendments in favour of identical amendments Nos 2186 by Mr Gérard and 2219 by the rapporteur, which go in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, ten speakers are still on this series of amendments. I hope that every speech will have added value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u69	[[Smile]] The majority always have added value!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u70	[[New smiles]] Mrs Avia, I give you the floor to enlighten us even more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u71	I shall therefore be very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u72	Indeed, tautologies are not useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u73	In that case, I will try to avoid them as much as possible, Mr. President. I will not go back to the legal issues that have been raised. I have heard the arguments put forward by the Government, but I think we have discussed enough in this Chamber to understand the difference between insurmountable legal difficulties and difficulties requiring some adjustments. In this case, only simple adjustments are necessary. The question before us is psychological. I have heard what our colleagues have been saying for some time now, but let us not forget that children will continue to be born in grieving families all the time and tomorrow. Yes, today, children are born in grieving families. I hope that no young widow is listening to our debates...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u74	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u75	I'm telling you in all sincerity! I hope a pregnant young widow isn't listening to our debates...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u76	If she's already pregnant, the question doesn't arise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u77	I do not want to state any truth, but when we talk about "substitutes", "repairing children" or the weight of mourning that would be imposed on an unborn child due to the death of his father, let us not forget that these situations may exist in our society, including outside the post-mortem LDC technique. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Maxime Minot and Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart also applaud]] I repeat, I have no truth to state. I just want to recall what we've been saying since yesterday: when we talk about the LDC for all women, alone or in a couple, let's trust them! Yesterday, the ministers repeated this slogan a lot. So let us trust the women, but especially the couples who, when preparing their parenting project, consider all situations. They consider of course the best for their child, but also the difficulties and accidents of life, of which mourning is part.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u78	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u79	Since there are only nine minutes left for non-attached Members, I am withdrawing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u80	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u81	This debate honours our assembly. Indeed, as we exchange arguments, some colleagues say that they change their minds. In the same way, all this nourishes us with questions that we seek to answer. We talked about the trauma that an orphan might suffer. For my part, I see no difference between an orphan born of natural procreation and an orphan born of an LDC. For the child, it will be exactly the same! I don't think anyone here would say that a natural pregnancy should be interrupted on the pretext that the father died, even if the father knew, at the time of conception, that he was going to die. My second point refers to the right of a woman to decide herself, her own body, her own life and even, dear Marc Le Fur – your intervention has moved me a lot – with her own mourning. For my part, I consider that someone never completely dies as long as someone thinks about him on earth. Can we then consider that mourning is less the fact of forgetting than of continuing to live happily with the thought of the deceased person? That's how I see things. Will mourning therefore be easier by giving birth to a child whose father is the man with whom the woman has lived a love story, or by using an anonymous donor because the woman could not use the gametes of her deceased husband? It is difficult to answer this question, but perhaps we should leave the women concerned free will. We must not legislate everything, but trust the woman who will decide to use the LDC once her partner has given her consent. Ms. Dubost referred to the issue of transcendence, i.e. the idea that the use of the LDC would make it possible to refuse her own death. But giving life, in general, is not a way to refuse our own death? It is about the survival of our species, which constantly transcends the physical death that awaits us by giving life. This argument therefore does not hold. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] For all these reasons, I will vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u82	The Chair of the special committee to examine the bioethics bill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u83	Science is not there to solve a situation of which there is of course no question of denying the extremely painful nature. If it can be said that it is difficult for the future mother to abandon the project that the couple had initiated on the death of her spouse, then it is not necessary for the child to be a means of pursuing it. Of course, the psychological structure of a child is complex and, of course, does not resolve itself to the conditions of its only procreation, but choosing to give birth to a child of a phantom father may lead to an idealization of the father and, probably, to complicate the construction of the child, on whom the weight of being born of mourning will weigh. A child cannot be held responsible for representing everything that his father is no longer because, otherwise, the child would be under an obligation, perhaps under voluntary or non-voluntary family pressure, to live under the influence of that phantom father. Without using psychoanalysis, it refers to a formula of the type: "You are your father, you will necessarily have his personal development. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u84	Antigone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u85	Yet we know well the difficulties that all children deprived of a father or mother after a death report: even if these orphans know that they were conceived by an act of love, they always have a lack and a feeling of being different from others. Finally, is the woman's decision to continue the parental project interrupted by her spouse's death still truly free and informed while she is in mourning? In no case is it a question of defying one's choice, but its state of vulnerability at that time may make it particularly sensitive to family, friendly and even social pressures. This desire to procreate beyond death could be dictated by an illusory desire to see the spouse survive through the child and would only lock the woman in mourning and her past, and perhaps prevent her from thinking about her future. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, with humility and conscience, I shall vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u86	Mr. Aubert, everything comes to the point who knows how to wait:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u87	[[Smile]] That's what you've been telling me for seven years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u88	...you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u89	I am somewhat embarrassed by the debate on these amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u90	We all are!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u91	... because we are in a form of logical labyrinth: since we, on the right, are against the expansion of the LDC, it makes sense that refusing the initial point of reflection, we do not agree with other types of extension, in this case with the post-mortem LDC. Once a social barrier is substituted for a medical barrier to define usable technology as acceptable, the question arises as to what is recognized as acceptable. And it is no longer a matter of debating on the basis of objective criteria, such as medical criteria – is the person infertile or not? – but criteria of acceptability to the citizens we are and what society can admit. That is why, after listening carefully to a number of you, I believe that we should not be mistaken about our role: we do not make the law on the basis of emotion, however profound it may be, or on particular cases, because everyone could then cite a case close to him that would justify or invalidate such or such a provision. Neither do we make the law in psychotherapist or psychologist – I have heard very interesting developments in this regard, but I do not have the required skills and although I obviously have an opinion on the consequences of the post-mortem LDC in this area, I find it rather difficult to claim to be a specialist. We must make the law on the basis of the general interest and, therefore, to those who wonder, I would remind you that we are here to allow or to ban. Little has been said about the child's interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u92	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u93	He wasn't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u94	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I always find it a little surprising that other areas, in particular ecology, are being invoked, our responsibility for future generations – in this case the precautionary principle – and that the same responsibility is totally absent from reflection on such a sensitive issue. I give you this little incise because I believe that, in the mirror, it would allow us to better balance our debate. With regard to the question of the post-mortem LDC, it was therefore a question of what was the general interest. Should society encourage an increase in the number of single-parent families? Of course, the woman concerned could later re-create a couple and re-found a family, but it is, basically, the emergence of a new form of single parent family. For my part, I believe that, on the contrary, we should encourage the development of families made up of two parents. In any case, it is better for the balance of the child, especially when there is a father and a mother. As proof that I have been a father for less than a year, I have been given a whole line of argument to explain to me, according to Mrs. Dolto's teachings, the place of the father and the personal construction of the child in relation to his gaze on the child and the need to be present from the first months of pregnancy... I do not understand how one can be entitled to such a hypertrophied speech whenever it comes to making children at the very moment when Parliament devotes, in a certain way, the disappearance of the paternal function: either this function is essential for the construction of the child, and in this case let us draw the consequences, or it is not, and in this case let us close the works of Mrs Dolto. [[Applause on many benches in the LR group]] You will understand this: in the general interest, I think that a clear distinction must be made between embryo and gamete, because if there is an embryo, there was a parenting project prior to death. But these amendments do not make this distinction, and since I am opposed to the extension of medically assisted procreation, I will obviously be opposed to the legalization of this particular situation by not making me a psychologist or bearer of the testimony of any particular case as we could all know about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u95	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u96	I am pleased that we have taken the time to discuss this issue. Whatever the result of the vote – although I hope that amendments in favour of the post-mortem LDC will be adopted – this debate will have counted because it sheds light on a variety of opinions while enriching them. And it will be useful to those who will have to discuss these ethical issues again, knowing that they will continue to work in society. I will add several elements to the reflection. First of all, with regard to the issue of death and mourning, I would like to point out that without being psychologists, we must be legislators or legislators and make decisions based on our conception of the world, society and relations with each other. The mourning has no established time limit: it can be very short when you can turn the page fairly quickly, or last a lifetime, even if I believe that you always carry in itself the presence of the people you loved and who have left. The question of transcendence was also raised. In truth, when one transmits life, one also transmits death by our genetic nature, for we are living beings programmed to die, whatever the mode of conception. His expectations about them are also passed on to the children, projecting his desires, his ambitions, his phantasms. This is a very heavy burden on the shoulders of future generations, and is often the cause of a traumatic legacy. In truth, it is a question of how to reconcile individual freedom – in this case, the ability to make choices that, even in the pain of mourning, remain free and enlightened – with what, as a legislator, we consider possible or desirable. This in no way undermines the interest of future children only to allow a woman to continue the journey she has undertaken, even if she is now alone; If he is now different from the one who had been decided on two, he nevertheless remains legitimate. From the moment the technique that makes it possible exists, it is both fair and normal to allow it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs. George Pau-Langevin also applauds]] Finally, I believe that these votes will remain unsettled, for no one knows whether the use of this or that technique will later be prohibited for one reason or another. Despite these doubts, I am in favour of the amendments and I call on all to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u97	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u98	The issue of the post-mortem LDC, which has brought us together for several hours, is an eminently ethical and intimate issue. In this regard, I would like to commend the very dignified and moving interventions that I have heard; I am thinking of that of our colleague Le Fur. In the end, our assembly has no certainty on such a matter. It is neither natural nor easy to conceive that one can give life beyond death, which requires deep reflection. I myself have read, listened to and reflected on this subject that questions our relationship to life, to death, to mourning. But a concern for coherence and justice must guide us in the debate on this bill. For my part, the question that I ask myself is: would I be able to explain to a widow whose assisted procreation approach, engaged with her spouse since she disappeared, has almost succeeded – the embryo having been finally conceived – that this embryo will have to be destroyed or ceded, and that it will have to start the same process again, but this time with an anonymous third party donor? I wouldn't be able to justify that. She will tell me that he was a child of love, the extension of her relationship story, of a parenting project built by two, and that this child would not be an orphan since a father existed who wanted it, that he would not be a substitute or a reparation, but the fruit of a love story and a parenting project. I therefore see in this text, which, however, opens up access to new rights, particularly that of the LDC for all, a form of inconsistency and injustice. Of course it is necessary to set safeguards, in this case stop at embryos and exclude gametes from them, set deadlines – several amendments propose six months – and of course require the prior explicit consent of the spouse. But we must also and above all, as several colleagues have said, trust women. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] As such, it is a matter of reaffirming their right to dispose of their own bodies, as is the case for the IVG, and as this text once again provides for by granting the right to the LDC for all and by removing the consent of the spouse in the case of gamete donation. Let us therefore also trust women in this LDC. We know that there will be very few of them. However, these very marginal cases exist, they are social realities which the judge has already seized on several occasions. It is also our responsibility to set the limit when the judge has already authorised post-mortem insemination. I believe that we must be coherent and fair, including with regard to these women. That is why I have co-signed several of these amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u99	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u100	First of all, I would like to welcome the serenity of the discussions on the post-mortem LDC. In public session as in a special commission, no one sought to impose his truth; each person's positions, doubts and questions are respected. It deserves to be noted. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, in the light of the discussions that we have just had, I would be in favour of the wordings that best guide this path, and will therefore vote in favour of the amendments proposed by Mr Gérard and by Mr M. rapporteurs Saulignac and Touraine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u101	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u102	This set of amendments aims to establish the LDC ad vitam, rather than post-mortem. In a situation that illustrates a weak point in the text – since there is no good decision to make when death strikes – I believe that we must arbitrate in coherence. While we have just, in a spirit of generosity, allowed the LDC for single-parent families, we would like to ban it in this case? I see a very great incoherence. Inconsistency too, because yesterday we voted for an amendment incorporating the concept of a parental project in Article 1 of the text. However, in the case of the post-mortem LDC, this disastrous possibility was precisely incorporated into the parenting project and is the result of the decision taken by the couple when the husband was still alive: this decision, although difficult to take, was incorporated into the thinking and is part of the parenting project. And we would like, in incoherence with the strong identity of this text, to come back to this possibility? [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] Allowing life where death has struck is part of the honour and pride of a legislator. Who are we to replace a parenting project and the decision of two individuals, however difficult it may be?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u103	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u104	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u105	With these amendments relating to the post-mortem LDC, we are at the crossroads of all our questions – questions that go through all of our groups and that concern the interests of the child, the LDC and the parenting project, the LDC for single women, the deceased past and the future that is emerging, life with a possible unborn child, and the death of his or her parent. In the face of these amendments, we, as legislators, must remain humble. We must accept death individually and collectively, with its impossibility to go back, and know that life, the future, or future love are always the strongest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u106	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u107	It is clear that the subject we are discussing is a matter of great concern to us. A child born more than a year after his father's death: this is something we could not imagine before – although the Maghreb societies use the notion of "slept child" to refer to children born too late. More seriously, there is a major contradiction in granting new rights to women – including the right to bear a child without a proven father – and in denying this possibility to a woman wishing to carry out a project she has formed with her husband. It's not conceivable. It is our custom in our society to respect the wills of the deceased: this is a constant, even in our law. In this case, the will of the deceased is very clear, since he started the project with his partner and the embryo is there: if one freezes the embryos, it is well to be able to re-implant them later. It would be illogical not to go to the end of the process and not to allow a woman to pursue the project that she had designed with her partner and that she very normally wanted to see a successful outcome, even if the latter had died. There is something cruel about taking your child from a woman who has already lost her partner. I will be opposed to the fact that the children conceived in mourning will not be well. Since everyone goes with their anecdote, I will quote the case of a friend whose companion, jeweler, was brutally killed. A few weeks after this tragedy, a ray of sunshine reappeared in this young woman's life when she learned that she was pregnant. Her child is now twenty-five years old. He's doing great. He was raised with the love of his parents and mother, and being born under tragic circumstances did not prevent him from living a very good life. The Minister explained that the post-mortem LDC would require a review of inheritance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u108	Because it's obvious, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u109	All right. However, this revision will be the easiest thing to do in relation to the upheavals that we have brought about by this text. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] You have launched a beautiful project, which we support. Don't stop in the middle of the ford, facing the widow woman. That would be too cruel for her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u110	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u111	This is a very complicated subject, which reminds me of some exchanges, when we tabled our bill on euthanasia. When I was asked to produce a definition of the "end of life worthy," I explained that if the 577 members were questioned, each would bring a different definition. In the same way, everyone has a personal opinion on what they would or would not do if they were in the situation we are talking about today. However, I would like to point out that we are debating very rare cases of couples who, because of their infertility or otherwise, decide to use a LDC, in which an embryo is conceived. Let us all agree on this point: when the embryo is conceived, both parents are alive. It is in a second stage that a life accident can occur, while the embryo waits to be implanted. This situation concerns only a few cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u112	[[Smile]] It's the perfect crime: she kills her husband, but keep the gametes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u113	We all know examples of young widows learning a pregnancy they were not aware of when they lost their husbands. I personally have two people in mind: one suffered an IVG, while the other ended her pregnancy. Who are we to judge them? These amendments may concern only a few people. However, it is important – and perhaps this is the reason why we were elected – to give the right, if only to a person, to live his life as he wishes, for all matters relating to privacy are governed by personal decisions and definitions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and several benches of the LaREM group]] We need to vote and make decisions. No one should be judged on these issues, but really, if our choices can help even one person, who are we to not make them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u114	We are the legislator: we vote the laws, precisely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u115	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, rapporteur of the special committee responsible for examining the bioethics bill, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u116	First of all, I would like to thank the colleagues who have spoken out in a very reasonable manner and in the course of the debates, which we all welcomed. I will briefly highlight three points. First, respect for the woman concerned and her ability to choose. Of course, it is important that we protect this woman from external pressure; But fearing too much this risk somewhat recalls the reasons why the right to vote was granted so late to women: some feared at the time that they would be subject to the influence of their husbands or confessors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u117	It is the radicals who historically prevented the extension of the right to vote to women!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u118	The second point concerns the interests of the child. The latter is a priority, but to know it, we hear the children themselves, not the adults. Martine Wonner recalled the very reassuring speech of Françoise Dolto, who had professionalized listening to children. With regard to the embryo itself, our right-wing colleagues are well aware that their predecessors were in favour of the post-mortem LDC, which gave a destiny to embryos, and that they did not advocate their destruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u119	The conservation of gametes and that of an embryo is not the same! He's talking about anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u120	Last but not least, since we have heard many interpretations, if not distortions, of the opinion of the Council of State, I would like to quote precisely: "The Council of State considers it paradoxical to maintain this prohibition while the legislator opens the MPA to unmarried women. [...] In the interests of overall consistency of the reform, however, the Council of State recommends that the Government authorize the transfer of embryos and post-mortem insemination, provided that the following two conditions are met: on the one hand, an audit of the parental project in order to ascertain the consent of the deceased spouse or cohabitant; on the other hand, a framework over time [...] of the possibility of using this MPA. » That is why we recommend that the MPA only occur at least six months after the spouse's death, and not more than eighteen months after the death, so as not to unduly delay the estate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u121	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2277.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u122	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 107 Number of votes cast 98 Absolute majority 50 For adoption 28 Against 70
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u123	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 2186 and 2219.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u124	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 111 Number of votes cast 111 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 47 Against 64
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u125	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1725.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u126	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 105 Number of votes cast 103 Absolute majority 52 For adoption 38 Against 65
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u127	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1724.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u128	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 104 Number of votes cast 101 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 37 Against 64
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u129	I put to the vote Amendment No 1711 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u130	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 102 Number of votes cast 93 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 27 Against 66
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u131	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2218.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u132	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 111 Number of votes cast 111 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 51 Against 60
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u133	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u134	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.50 and resumed at 17.00 with Mr Marc Le Fur in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u135	The meeting was resumed. On Amendment No 1460, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u136	It is intended to prevent reproductive health assistance when a single woman or a member of the couple has been convicted of domestic violence, i.e. sexual assault, violence or, more broadly, bodily or mental harm to a spouse, former spouse, child or parent. It seems unreasonable to help parents to have a child whom they will have to educate and with whom they will live, when one of them has already subjected a close relative to serious violence. This person, because he would be more likely to commit violence against the unborn child, is de facto a danger to him. [[Alain Ramadier applauds]] As a reminder, two children are killed every week, and too often in the family. In 2016, the police and gendarmerie recorded more than 73,000 cases of child abuse. The legislator must prevent situations at risk for a child. That is why I invite you to adopt this amendment of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u138	We understand your intention, Ms. Trastour-Isnart, and wish to do everything possible to avoid the risk of domestic or domestic violence. However, I call for caution in the scope of the amendments you are proposing. The physician or medical team does not have to know the criminal history of the persons concerned, nor do they have to act as legal auxiliaries. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u140	I totally agree with Jean-Louis Touraine's analysis: unfavorable opinion. The amendment would establish, on the basis of domestic violence, a medically assisted reproductive health police.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u141	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u142	I propose to the Government to amend my amendment to allow the judicial authority to transmit a file to the medical profession,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u143	This proposal is shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u144	... in order to prevent a medically assisted reproduction when there has been violence against a child or within the family, i.e. when one of the members of the couple, or the person alone, may constitute a danger to the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u145	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u146	The reading of this amendment leaves me a little puzzled, I do not hide it from you, because it would interfere, on the basis of suspicion, with criminal justice elements with the implementation of an LDC. At a time when we are opening up this right to all women, we do not have to decide on the possible background involved, and thus to make a decision which, let us recall, must be subject to the freedom of the woman or the couple. I will not therefore vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u147	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u148	I fully understand my colleague's approach, even if I hear the difficulties of the amendment. In the end, they reveal the consequences of the removal of psychological assessment. This would enable medical teams to detect the facts we are talking about. The amendment may not have been drafted as you would have liked, I understand, but the idea deserves to be deepened, even if there is obviously no question of turning medical teams into auxiliaries of justice. A medium term could be found, in particular to combat domestic violence. We would thus show that society is not in favour of taking children into homes where violence has already been found – since we are not talking about suspicions, but about proven facts. Perhaps the amendment is poorly drafted, but I believe it to be common sense; That is why the idea of under-amending it seems to me to be entirely relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u149	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u150	I deeply regret the abandonment of the psychological assessment measure in a special committee: you preferred the idea of a multidisciplinary team, considering it to be more neutral and politically correct. However, psychologists or psychiatrists will sit in this body. When they give a negative opinion, on what basis will they do so? Not on material or resource conditions: you have refused an amendment to this effect, and we understand why. If they do, on what else do you think they will rely on what we're talking about? I therefore invite you to consider the problem with clarity. There is no question here of suspicions, but of proven violence, reported to the police or to the gendarmerie and having resulted in a conviction of the perpetrator. What bothers you in the idea of prohibiting a violent parent from hosting a child by AMP? Frankly, I find it difficult to understand your prevention on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u151	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1460.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u152	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 44 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 12 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u153	I have before me several amendments, Nos 37, 358, 681, 901, 1632, 1806, 900, 2088, 1726, 2129, 2220 corrected, 2146, 2535 corrected, 2143, 2221 corrected and 2087, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 37, 358, 681, 901, 1632 and 1806 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 2143 and 2221 as corrected. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u154	It is intended to prohibit the donation of oocytes by one of the partners of a couple of women. Article 16-8 of the Civil Code states that the donation of body parts must be anonymous. This principle of anonymity must be preserved, such as the principle of free and free consent, failing which a new breach in this field would be opened. The donation of oocytes would then be similar to a GPA, since it would be the responsibility of one member of the couple to entrust pregnancy to the other. It is therefore absolutely necessary to impose this prohibition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u155	Amendment No 358 by Mr Patrick Hetzel is being defended. Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 681.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u156	[[Smile]] This very interesting amendment by Mr Le Fur, Mr President, refers to Article 16-8 of the Civil Code, which states that the donation of body parts must be anonymous: "No information identifying both the person who donated an element or product of his body and the person who received it can be disclosed. The donor cannot know the identity of the recipient or the recipient of the donor. In the event of a therapeutic need, only doctors of the donor and the recipient may have access to the information enabling the identification of the donor and the recipient. » Therefore, the practice of a woman hosting an ovocate from her partner would be to circumvent this prohibition and legalize a kind of women's GPA. The law must impose this prohibition: this is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u157	Amendments Nos 901 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 1632 by Mrs Agnes Thill, 1806 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and 900 by Mr Thibault Bazin are defended. On Amendment No 2088, I am seized by the independent UDI Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u158	He tends to insert, after paragraph 8, the following paragraph: "Where medical reproductive assistance involves a couple, applicants are offered, where possible, the use of the gametes of the members of the couple or of any of the members of the couple. » The use of gametes within a couple should be permitted, regardless of the sex, sexual orientation or gender identity of the persons concerned. Thus, when a transgender man has self-conservation of his oocytes prior to his transition, or a transgender woman has self-conservation of his sperm prior to his transition, the gametes must be able to be used by the other member of the couple. The immediate availability of gametes would avoid the use of donation, which could be very useful in times of shortage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u159	I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1726.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u160	It is not a question of making the gift in absolute order, as much as is necessary, since we know the risks involved. I recall, however, that the so-called "directed" gift already exists for heterosexual couples, since, within the framework of an LDC, they do not resort to sperm from a third-party donor, but to human sperm. As long as the bill allows for double donation for a woman in marriage with another, it would be absurd not to allow the woman who will bear the child not to receive the oocytes of her companion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u161	On Amendment No 2129, I am seized by the independent UDI Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u162	Quite close to that of Mrs Vanceunebrock-Mialon, he asked about the use of oocytes in a couple of women. In my view, our debates need consistency. Since they started in a special commission and then in session, parental projects have been considered from the point of view of both the couple and one of their members. A few moments ago, Ms. Boyer expressed her concerns about a possible shift to GPA. Again, I do not see the risk of sliding to GPA in a couple's parenting project. However, we have talked a lot about the shortage of egg donation in our country. Imagine a couple with a transgender man who kept his oocytes, to whom we refused this morning to open access to the LDC, and a sterile woman: they could have a child through the donation of oocytes or embryos with third-party donors, even though oocytes from a member of the couple are available. We need to discuss this issue and then decide on it, because we are, once again, about to close doors for lack of consistency, by confusing the parenting project of one person or two independent persons with that of a couple.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u163	On Amendment No 2220, as corrected, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans and IDU groups and independents. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2220 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u164	It aims to allow the reception of the partner's oocytes – ROPA. For those who, in the assistance, would not yet be quite familiar with this device, I would remind you that it may happen, for various reasons such as illness or age, that a couple of women may wish or feel the need for one of them to provide the oocytes and the other to carry the child. In such circumstances, access to the LDC, one of the mothers giving its oocytes, the other carrying the child, is open. We are totally outside the scope of GPA, because we cannot do GPA with ourselves, and outside the scope of the donation, since both women are mothers, they cannot give themselves the oocytes or the possibility to host the embryo. This system, quite apart from that, allows us to respond to different difficulties. This amendment was reworked after the committee discussion, with the aim of responding to certain objections. I have also tabled another amendment, No 2221 corrected, which tends to reserve ROPA to cases of infertility only and which was accepted by the committee at the meeting convened under Rule 88 of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u165	On Amendment No 2146, I am seized by the independent UDI Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2146.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u166	This is the same scheme, but in order to alleviate fears of a possible shift towards GPA, the scope of the amendment is more limited, the latter proposing to restrict the use of oocytes by the partner to married couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u167	Amendment No 2535 corrected by Mrs de Vaucouleurs is being defended. On the identical amendments Nos 2143 and 2221 as corrected, I am seized by the UDI Group and independent of them of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2143 and 2221 as corrected. Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2143.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u168	This amendment, the same as Mr Touraine's rectified No. 2221, allows the use of the oocytes of the member of the couple who does not bear the child only if the one who wears it is sterile: again, it is a question of reassuring those whom ROPA would worry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u169	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2221 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u170	He was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u171	I call Mrs Vanceunebrock-Mialon to support Amendment No. 2087.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u172	In some situations, a woman who has to carry the child in a couple of women has to use an oocyte donation, while her companion, who cannot carry the child, has to do so. It would be inconsistent to donate oocytes, especially in times of shortage, while the couple has female gametes. The amendment proposes to allow ROPA, i.e. the reception of oocytes from one member of the couple by the other member of the couple, as is already possible in other countries such as Belgium or Spain. To those who assimilate this practice to GPA, I would like to make it clear that they are absolutely not comparable. Here, no one puts his stomach at the disposal of others. The pregnancy concerns the child of the couple, the mother carrying the embryo being, like her companion, the mother of the child. Nor is it a directed gift, since the woman who transmits her ovoyte to her partner is not a donor, but her companion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u173	On Amendment No 2087, I have a request for a public vote before the independent UDI Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u174	The case is somewhat complex, as the amendments express opposing views. The committee's opinion is unfavourable to identical amendments Nos 37, 358, 681, 901, 1632 and 1806 and to amendment No 900. The committee gave an unfavourable opinion when mine was in favour of Amendments Nos 2088, 1726, 2129, 2220 corrected, 2146, 2535 corrected and 2087. The committee and I are in favour of Amendments Nos 2143 and 2221 as corrected, tabled at the meeting convened under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u175	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u176	The Government is opposed to all the amendments on ROPA. I would like to draw the thread from our vision of parenting. We are sensitive to the desire of two mothers to participate in the parenting project, but this idea of dual motherhood is in contradiction with the entire philosophy of the bill, according to which the parenting project is based on the love that one wishes to give to a child, without biology prevails. That is what we have been saying for the last two days, and I hope that a father feels as father to a child born from in vitro fertilization with third-party donors as if he were the child's biological father. If we consider that two women must both participate in the fusion of the gametes to be considered both mothers, we must ask ourselves about our vision of parenting for IVFs with third-party donors in a heterosexual couple. I have a problem with the idea that you are not a parent if you have not given your gametes: the whole bill is based on the principle that a gamete donor is not necessarily a father or mother, the parents being the ones who raise the child and bring him love and security. You're making two proposals. The first allows ROPA to all couples of homosexual women, regardless of the infertility of one of the two mothers; It touches on a fundamental principle of medicine, that of not performing any unnecessary and unwarranted medical act. In a couple of women, artificial insemination is enough to lead to pregnancy: the woman who will bear the baby does not undergo ovarian stimulation, she is simply inseminated sperm in the uterus. With this proposal, an ovarian stimulation is imposed on the other member of the couple – in addition to in vitro fertilization, embryo re-implantation and embryo freezing. This is exactly what we want to avoid, as previous laws affirm that everything must be done to avoid embryo freezing. ROPA would result in several ovarian stimulations for the mother that would give the oocytes, in vitro fertilizations and embryo freezing that would not be necessary. The second set of amendments reserved ROPA for sterile women who wished to carry the child. We are here in the typical context of the directed gift: if we accepted that the woman suffering from infertility should call on a donor, who is her companion, we would pave the way for the extension of the directed gift in all couples. We'll go back to the principle of anonymity of the gift. I do not deny that there are waiting lists for the donation of oocytes, but some practices already noted, such as women who come with their sister to give oocytes, would be justified in order to address the double problem of waiting list and infertility. Regardless of how the ROPA is implemented, it poses a problem to me. I fully understand his immediate interest, but if we want to defend the idea that the child comes from a parenting project and the gametes are only used to correct infertility, we are wrong to fight by promoting ROPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u177	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u178	Let us ask ourselves what motivates the reception of the oocytes of one member of the couple by the other member, defended by our colleagues. This is basically the idea that the child would be the biological fruit of both mothers. As if you had to lean on nature to achieve something that is fiction, since a child is never the product of two women. In addition, this device is similar to GPA, as there is a gestation of one on behalf of the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u179	No, for his own account!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u180	We keep saying in this chamber that this text has nothing to do with pregnancy for others. The proposal of our colleagues is certainly different from the GPA in the sense that we usually hear it, that is, a gestation for a couple of men, but it is still a gestation for others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u181	No, for yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u182	This proposal opens new doors, leads to new perspectives, and is very clear as a step towards the legalization of GPA – or at least towards the idea that GPA has to do with the LDC. What we believe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u183	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u184	You have all said in this Chamber that there would never be a GPA, arguing that the law made it clear, but I would remind you that the LDC was prohibited until the probable adoption, since the majority is in favour of it, of Article 1 of this text. What one law does, another law can undo. Your protests today will not stand, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, beyond your mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u185	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u186	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u187	These amendments aim to increase the use of ROPA. Thank you, minister, for the arguments you have put forward. These amendments do pose a real problem of consistency. Throughout the discussion of the text, most authors have stated that filiation should not be biologized, that it should be treated in a different way and that what matters is the willingness to family. In this case, the reasoning must be followed to the end. There is a total inconsistency: by using ROPA, we claim to biologize filiation, after having made speeches diametrically opposed to this principle. Thank you very much, Minister, for reminding us that these amendments are diametrically opposed, at least, to the spirit of the text that you are defending! I would like to highlight another aspect of the question. As we can see abroad – one of our colleagues mentioned the case of Spain – it is mainly about exploiting the suffering of the women concerned. They are told that one of them will carry a child, who will really be theirs, but what we do not say is that all this is a very lucrative market!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u189	It's a real commodification of the body! We're in full! Moreover, what amazes me a lot – especially since some of the signatories to the amendments are members of the medical profession – is that their proposals do not take into account the risks or potential costs of such a measure, both for women and for the community. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Frankly, they are a matter of great confusion of mind. They are also very dangerous. All this is DIY! I therefore call you to a little measure and reason. For my part, I am resolutely opposed to the guidelines aimed at legalizing all forms of recourse to ROPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u190	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u191	I recognize a merit to the authors of the amendments, particularly to Jean-Louis Touraine: their proposals are intellectually and philosophically consistent. As long as technology can be put at the service of individual – or rather collective – will, because it is a couple, they consider that it takes precedence over legal rules, as well as ethical rules, because, as the minister has shown, the transfer of oocytes from one of the two women – wife or not – so that the other can carry the child remains a gift. Technically, sampling, in vitro fertilization and re-implantation of the oocytes are required. It therefore remains a gift, more specifically a directed gift, which is contrary to our ethical principles. Thus, our colleagues, in order to justify their philosophy of the primacy of the individual will or that of the couple, and of the use of technology at the service of the couple, gradually accept to lower the guard with regard to our ethical principles, which will sooner or later lead them to lower it completely, and to justify intellectually and philosophically the use of other prohibited techniques at the present time. I will not go so far as to say that ROPA is a gestation for others, but we are at the border. It could be said that this is a pregnancy for others in the family.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u193	Only for homosexual couples?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u194	The transfer of the embryo from one woman to another remains, in principle, a gestation for others. However, I will not bring this case to the attention of our colleagues who are defending the use of the ROPA method. On the other hand – which is why I asked for a public vote on the amendments under joint discussion – I can see that the majority is going through contradictory currents. Some say – the Government in mind – that no transaction on our fundamental principles of ethics will take place, and that GPA, for example, will remain prohibited in France. But we find, in the same majority, people who are willing to compromise with our intangible ethical principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u195	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u196	This is not about allowing GPA to be diverted. That is not the subject of the debate. Minister, defending the use of ROPA does not seem to me to be contrary to the positions we have taken on parenthood, as well as on the issue of the partial debiologization of our relationship to filiation. We never denied biology. What we're talking about is biology. The implantation of gametes in a human body is indeed taking place. We are not talking here about a conception by favour of the Holy Spirit, devoid of any biological dimension. Our positions are therefore not contradictory. In the case of the LDC with third-party donor, a donation is systematically made. The donor may be an anonymous donor or donor, but also a non-anonymous and committed donor, who has indicated his intention to build a parenting project. The aim is to ensure that its donation takes place within the framework of this project. In my view, allowing this process is doubly devoting the parenting project. Minister, you have indicated that this is a difficult and painful process for both the recipient and the donor. However, they are engaged in this process and measure its difficulty. What is enshrined here is the construction of the parental project, as well as the possibility and the right to have access to a gamete donation, which, in order to come from an identified individual, does not call into question the choices of heterosexual couples. We simply offer the possibility of this right being used in the context of a homosexual couple. For us, this is in line with the opening up of a universal right, affirmed since we began the examination of the text. It is a question of not discriminating donations according to the person from whom they come, so that parenting projects are carried out in the best possible conditions. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] It is up to us to ensure that these conditions are as painful as possible. This is a response in line with the provisions we have debated and voted on so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u197	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u198	I'm very uncomfortable after hearing some things. I have great difficulty hearing that a parenting project formed in a heterosexual couple, whose wife would benefit from a donation of oocytes to procreate with her husband, would not be worth it to be called a surrogate mother – because that is what our colleagues say, that it is a disguised GPA –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u199	The donor is her sister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u200	... and that a parenting project formed in a couple of women, one of whom would use her partner's oocytes, would suddenly be a shift towards GPA. There is a problem of semantics, a reasoning that really escapes me, and which I hope is not based on the sexual orientation of the couple in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u201	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u202	In the case of direct donations, they already exist. The health code provides that the donation of the kidney or bone marrow, for example, is a directed donation. He is allowed within the same family, for therapeutic reasons, in a very supervised way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u203	This has nothing to do with the conception of a child!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u204	We will have the opportunity to return, further in the discussion of the text, to the framework and expansion of these practices. Therefore, using gametes as we propose is not an obstacle in itself. On the other hand, for a heterosexual couple – I repeat that I do not want to see, in the comments made earlier, a distinction based on the sexual orientation of the couple in question – the health code provides that the gametes available within the couple are to be used as a matter of priority. For a homosexual couple, with all the conditions I want to put in, we take the subject through the little bit of the lorgnette. We have seen this this morning: we have addressed the issue of the reproductive rights of transgender people from the perspective of the very spectacular case of transgender man deciding to carry his child, which certainly raises questions. There are forty-eight transgender pair configurations. We have evacuated forty-seven of them only so that one day a transgender man may not bear a child, even though society already has such situations, through natural procreation. Let us be very careful not to create new barriers, new discriminations. I know that Mrs La Garde des Seales does not like this terminology, but unfortunately it is necessary if we distinguish between sliding towards GPA or not depending on whether a couple is homosexual or heterosexual. In my view, there are very few differences between the two situations. Let us be very careful not to erect barriers. These are very rare cases, occurring in very limited numbers. We are creating new discriminations on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u205	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u206	What do we like about the gift? We accuse him of presenting risks arising, on the one hand, from his potential gratuity – not without consideration, which may have to be paid some day – and, on the other hand, from the lack of anonymity of the donor. In the case of a woman's infertility within a couple of women, having the possibility of recourse to her spouse's oocyte does not at all seem to raise the same disadvantages. Raising anonymity within a couple of women seems obvious to me. It does not seem to me complicated to explain to a child that his mother could not initially wear it, and that the other mother, who perhaps could no longer carry a child, made him benefit from his oocytes. As for the free gift, it is not called into question either. Therefore, in this particular situation, I do not see the disadvantages of directed donation. Knowing all the difficulty of using a donation of oocytes, such a measure seems to me to make sense. I would like us to move forward with the case of women's infertility. I understand that opening up such a right without retaining the criterion of infertility raises other questions. We might open a door to situations that we don't control. I suggest that we consider the situation of women's couples infertility and the possibility we offer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u207	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u208	I would like to provide some clarifications on the ROPA. Minister, this is not a directed donation at all, but the application of the general principle of first use of the couple's gametes. Is it considered that an organ donation, such as a kidney, is a directed gift? The women of the couple are willing to undergo ovarian stimulations to use the oocytes of either. Mrs Genevard, this is not a GPA, because gamete transfers will take place within the couple. No one else will intervene. One of the women bears the child of the couple, not that of another person. Besides, she wears it for herself and will be her mother. These clarifications seem important to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u209	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u210	I would like to go back to what Mr Gérard has said. He said two things that I can't let say. He suggested that we were opposed to ROPA for considerations relating to the sexual orientation of couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u211	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u212	Yes, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u213	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u214	I find it inappropriate, especially since our debates so far have been very calm. There are no progressives on the one hand and reactionaries on the other! Our debates cannot be based on this opposition. Nor can I let him establish – to justify the fact that it would not be a directed gift – a comparison with the situation of a heterosexual couple who resort to the oocyte of a third-party donor. This third-party donor, agree, she's anonymous! The nature of the acts is therefore entirely different. In the case of ROPA, there is, in essence, a break with the condition of anonymity: it is therefore a directed gift. It's an intangible fact. Our position therefore has nothing to do with the sexual orientation of the persons concerned. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Again, you show intellectual and philosophical coherence. You are ready to compromise with ethical principles that today make consensus in our country. But don't try to justify your proposals otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u215	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u216	We are very reserved with regard to these amendments. Our will is to promote and uphold the philosophy of gift, as it has been established in our country for years. That proposal could, however, call it into question. I am also sensitive, of course, to the idea of limiting medical procedures that may pose an unnecessary risk to health. This position seems to me to be consistent with the conception of the human person that I have tried to develop during these debates: the construction of the person is the result of a civilizing process that is both historical, social and cultural. In the field we open, there is recognition of this reality. By opening up access to the LDC to women's couples and single women, we are making progress. But let us remain consistent, without again giving too much importance to biology, to genetics in the construction of the person himself. I deeply believe that the person is an individual, a singularity, which is the result of a biographical appropriation of his place as a member of the human race. It is to promote this that we must work, in order to allow everyone to be well in his life and well in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u217	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u218	Be careful, ladies and gentlemen: giving a kidney to save a life is not exactly the same as giving an ovoyte to conceive a child! This directed gift would put us at risk of multiple drifts. If one is interested in psychological motivations, one can understand the idea of tending towards a biological likelihood of a dual maternal lineage. But, very sincerely, there is above all a danger to health – I am speaking under your control, Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health: hormonal treatment for the one that gives is not annoyed, since ovarian stimulation increases the risk of thrombosis. There are also risks for the child – the risk of high blood pressure, among others. The rapporteur-general of the PLFSS even spoke in committee to stress this point. In countries where ROPA is practised, such as Belgium, it poses such serious ethical problems that doctors are allowed to use the conscience clause. Take a good look! Finally, there are consequences for the health of children, including a low weight. If one of the women no longer has fertilizable oocytes, why wouldn't the one who still has fertilizable oocytes carry the child? The question that arises here is that of our relationship to technology: should we not give priority to the least burdensome technique? Donor insemination is not at all the same as in vitro fertilization. There is a risk here that the technique will take precedence, at the expense of the medical dimension. The end doesn't justify all the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u220	[[Applause on the benches of the LR Group, as well as among non-attached Members]] All that is technically possible is not desirable, and this is the case here. Society must tell a couple of women, one of whom has oocytes, that it is the latter who must carry the child. Otherwise, we open the door to serious drifts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u221	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u222	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I will try not to be too messy, ladies and gentlemen, but I regret to announce to you that the directed gift has existed for millennia: in heterosexual couples, we choose which partner we will have a child with... Yes, that's the reality! If we want to go back on this, it's gonna start to get complicated... Seriously, if tomorrow one of you needs a kidney to live, I could give it to him, but I couldn't make a gift that would allow another to give life?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u223	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u224	That has everything to see, on the contrary. We're talking about people's lives! I regret to announce to you that you may well not be in my opinion, but that it is life, human beings, that we are talking. So that has everything to do with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u225	It's about creating someone new! It's still easy to understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u226	For centuries, a man and a woman chose and decided to have a child. It's already happening, it's no big deal, everyone relax! We have the right to choose the partner with whom we will have children. We are talking about couples of women where the mother who is going to carry the child wants to carry a child conceived with the gametes of her wife. Really, it's okay, we relax, everything's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u227	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u228	On the question of ROPA, therefore, in fact, the issue of directed donation, I believe that by adopting the amendment we would be in contradiction with another amendment which the Group of the European People's Party has defended, and which reaffirms the refusal of any prioritisation in access to the least developed countries by virtue of marital status or sexual orientation. Considering that you would be a priority in access to the LDC because you have someone in your couple who can give you an ovocate seems to me to contradict this refusal of any priority and discrimination. Other arguments have been put forward: this method involves medical acts which are not insignificant, whereas a medical act must obviously be performed only if it is absolutely necessary. Finally, the anonymity of the gift would be broken, when it is an intangible principle, which we do not raise: the access to the origins that we allow the child who wishes to do so, when he reaches the age of 18, is not an anonymity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u229	We're talking about a gift in a couple!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u230	Let her talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u231	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] That this gift is made within the couple does not change the principle. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I didn't interrupt you, Mrs. Fiat, relax, you too, everything's gonna be okay. Whether or not it is a couple does not change the principles we want to follow. A law, including bioethics, lays down principles, opens up possibilities and establishes prohibitions. When one breaks anonymity, even within a couple, one frees oneself well from a principle. That is not, I believe, the sense in which we should go. There is, moreover, a real difference of nature with a kidney donation, where questions of compatibility arise. The donor and recipient must be compatible – one of the articles in this bill is designed to increase access to donations and transplants, including by expanding the practice of cross donation. The logic of an egg donation is not the same. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Because we do not want to set priorities for access to the LDC, depending on the individual's access or not to an immediate donor, and because we want to maintain the logic of anonymity, I will not vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u232	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u233	I too would like to say my full respect for all attitudes towards an issue such as ROPA. However, I would like to correct false arguments that we have heard, so that everything is clear. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] No, ROPA has nothing to do with a GPA, no more than procreation between a man and a woman! It's a gift to yourself, within the couple who want a child. Both mothers, like a father and a mother, contribute. So there is absolutely nothing like, even from far away, a GPA. There is no direct donation either. It's, I say, a gift to yourself. I therefore believe that these arguments should be ruled out. Some also argue that the ROPA would run counter to the medical concept of not acting in an interest other than that of the individual. This principle has been violated since the 1950s for organ removal. It is also the case every time a surgery is performed to solve a sterility problem in men or women: it is not done in the interests of the person, but in the interests of the child, and it is put at risk to the person! For a very long time, in the interests of the child, we have agreed to put the parents at risk. Women know better than anyone, they have paid such a heavy price for millennia, with a mortality in diapers once frightening, but fortunately has almost disappeared. Let us be for or against these amendments, but on the basis of valid arguments. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM, MODEM and FI groups stand up and applaud.– Applause on all benches]] I have also just learned that, for several hours, one of our colleagues, who sits on the right of this House, has been receiving extremely serious and violent threats on the pretext that he supports the LDC for all. On behalf of all of us, I mean that everyone here respects democracy and that no one does anything but condemn any form of threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u234	And the threats that I receive, by whom have they been condemned?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u235	Like others, I will apply measures that I do not understand. As you have seen, I do not agree with the prohibition of the post-mortem LDC or ROPA. However, I do not consider it clear that it is legitimate to make disrespectful remarks towards those who have an opinion that is different from mine. [[Applause on all benches]] Here, I'm sure, everyone disapproves of these threats. But we must make it clear outside this House: it is intolerable, unbearable, unacceptable to make threats against anyone because of his opinions, and we will violently fight all those who act in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u236	It's valid for everyone, so, Mr. Rapporteur, really for everyone? Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u237	The Chair of the Special Committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u238	Yes, Mrs. Chill, it's true for everyone. I wonder about the inequality that could result from the acceptance of ROPA. We have just voted on equality between the two mothers, one of whom will not have priority over the other. With ROPA, Mr rapporteur, would we not create a form of inequality within the couple? If, of the two mothers, one gives the oocyte to the other, won't the latter be a little more mother than the other? I am really wondering about this, and I am rather embarrassed by the comparison between ROPA and organ donation. It really bothers me a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u239	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u240	I agree with you, Mr rapporteur: a fundamental principle of this debate is the respect due to each person, whatever his or her ideas, since it addresses the intimate convictions of each person. No one should be threatened for their opinions. Even though mine often differ from yours, I have a deep respect for you, because the positions you defend have at least the merit of consistency. However, let me go back to one point of your demonstration that shockes me – it is not up to your person, it is to the ideas that I am interested in: it is not because the law is violated that we must legalize a practice that seems to us not to correspond exactly to our ethical principles. This is important: the fact that some practices within CECOS may be problematic does not justify legalizing them. Let us examine them in accordance with our ethical principles, in a collective way, so that we can judge them. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] No one should be threatened for anything. We sit here free, without a mandatory mandate. When we finish examining the bill, we may find ourselves around a glass – even if some of us would have liked the law to be better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u241	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u242	The AMP requires two gametes. A couple can give them both, and they will be re-implanted with the genetic capital of this couple. It is also possible to use a gamete from one of the couple members and another from a third donor, or two gametes from two donors. In the first two hypotheses, the embryo is produced at least in part from the gametes of the couple. In the case of ROPA, the oocytes are well derived from the couple itself. I therefore do not fully understand the objections to the direct donation. This seems to me to require more explanation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u243	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u244	This has already been said, but it should be recalled regularly: the LDC through in vitro fertilization is a course of the combatant, and its chances of success are extremely low – 15%, 16%, 20% maximum. As long as it is possible to avoid the LDC by in vitro fertilization and fall back on insemination, there is no need to hesitate: we must go towards insemination. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Second point: I hear a lot about genetics, heritage, transmission. Perhaps we, as geneticists, have worked too well in past years to spread the idea that humans would ultimately be the product of their discomforts. We know today that this is not the case: for biological reasons, discomforts only determine a part of our identity, to which many other factors contribute. So let's not reduce it to chromosome and gene transfers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u245	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2088.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u246	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 76 Number of votes cast 72 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 18 Against 54
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u247	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2129.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u248	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 76 Number of votes cast 72 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 20 Against 52
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u249	I put to the vote Amendment No 2220 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u250	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 76 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 22 Against 51
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u251	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2146.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u252	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 71 Number of votes cast 69 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 19 Against 50
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u253	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 2143 and 2221 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u254	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 26 Against 47
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u255	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2087.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u256	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 22 Against 51
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u257	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2196.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u258	I propose that in paragraph 7, the follow-up study which the text intends to propose to the recipient couple or to the receiving woman, who must consent in writing, be systematically proposed – whether it is not a mere possibility but a rule. These follow-up studies are absolutely crucial to controlling the long-term consequences of the use of MPA techniques. Moreover, much has been said about studies; This is an opportunity for them to form sufficiently representative cohorts. That is why I believe that these studies should be systematically carried out after the LDCs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u260	This type of study is never carried out without the informed consent of individuals. It is impossible to force anyone to participate: it would not be desirable, and it would create an unpleasant relationship between the medical team and the patients: the latter could believe themselves at the mercy of the former and force themselves to participate in it to be entitled to treatment. On the contrary, treatment, which must be dispensed to satisfy the expressed need, should be dissociated from the study itself, for which participation is only optional. I therefore request that the drafting of the Government be continued.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u262	Disadvantaged, but I would like to reply very precisely to Mrs Genevard, because I understand the concern to have a follow-up of the couples. In fact, this monitoring exists: it is carried out by the Agency for Biomedicine, but with a different methodology than you propose. You are proposing a study for which couples would be asked for their consent, with the risk that the rapporteur has just mentioned: couples who do not consent to follow-up may feel under pressure and fear that they may not have access to treatment, or that they may be less well followed. The method chosen by the Biomedicine Agency is to study anonymously the results of the follow-up of couples who have had access to the LDC, integrating them into the data of the national health data system – SNDS – i.e. the national inter-regime health insurance information system – SNIIRAM – the bases of health insurance. This follow-up is anonymous, but provides accurate data on the long-term effects, among other things, of drugs taken by these people. This already existing study, I am against your amendment. It should also be published shortly – we have talked about it in the special committee. A working group is organized with stakeholders and will explain how we will collect the data.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u263	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u264	I'm afraid I didn't speak well, minister. I do not want the follow-up study to be imposed on couples, but to be proposed to them systematically – it is not quite the same thing. Couples are not required to accept it, but medical teams are required to present it to them. Is your opinion still negative, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u265	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u266	I understand what you're saying. However, there are now other methods of monitoring – anonymous, it is true – that allow us to know the risks involved and the pathologies likely to appear several years later, but above all to compare people who have used MPA with control groups. The studies, carried out by the Biomedicine Agency, are of good quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u267	Amendment No 1620 by Mrs Agnes Thill is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u268	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 39, 360 and 682. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u269	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u270	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor to support Amendment No. 360.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u271	I'm taking it out, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u272	This is also the case with Amendment No 682.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u273	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 340, 843, 20, 339, 598, 887 and 1534, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 340 and 843 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 20, 339, 598 and 887. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 340.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u274	Some examples from abroad show that the question of the age limit to benefit from an MPA deserves to be asked. The limit must be determined not only on the basis of biological characteristics but also of the ability to care for a child. Of course, it may evolve over time, depending on the laws of bioethics, but it is important to establish a marker. The amendment proposes 40 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u275	Amendment No 843 is being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u276	This amendment seeks to set the age limit for MPA at 43 years, which corresponds to the limit for social security coverage of in vitro fertilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u277	Identical amendments Nos 339 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 598 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 887 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. Amendment No 1534 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u278	These various amendments show the difficulty of the exercise – some propose 40 years, others 43. While they come from the same group, they fail to agree on an age limit. It is therefore wiser to leave it to the regulatory field to set such an age. You are right, we need limits, but putting them in the law means taking the risk of having to change it very quickly, given the evaluations carried out, year after year, by the Biomedicine Agency – I can attest – which measure very precisely the variations in women's fertility and draw conclusions about the age beyond which the use of the MPA is not reasonable. It is therefore up to the Agency for Biomedicine and then the decree to set the age limit. On the other hand, I note that you are not considering age limits for men. Their biological clock works differently, but it would not be pointless to set a legal age for men as it is intended for women. So my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u280	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u281	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u282	Because of the scheduled legislative time, we have not been able to defend the amendments on the age of men at length. I repeat the question that I asked in your absence, Madam Minister: will the age of the father – or of the second parent, if access to the LDC is extended – be taken into account in the decree you are considering? CECOS have sometimes been confronted with people who requested conservation twenty or thirty years ago who, despite their advanced age, asked to use their gametes. Practitioners then faced dilemmas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u283	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u284	The answer is yes, Mr. Bazin. The decree will take into account the views of learned societies and will concern the age of women and men in order to procreate, taking into account their state of health. One can imagine that this age varies from person to person and over time, which is why we do not wish to include it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u285	Amendment No 1622 by Mrs Agnes Thill is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u286	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to support Amendment No. 2246.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u287	My amendment is concerned, after the age limit, with the minimum age. Bioethics laws must set limits. Access to the LDC must therefore be reserved for our fellow citizens in distress situations – this is the case of a heterosexual couple who suffer from pathological sterility but also of a homosexual couple confronted with de facto infertility. Similarly, access to the LDC for single women must be targeted specifically at those who are at risk of imminent infertility as a result of the biological clock. The decree specifies that the use of the LDC should be a subsidiary approach, i.e. a new opportunity for the success of its parenting project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u288	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u289	The age conditions, whether it be floor or ceiling, men or women, will be fixed by decree – this is more prudent. In addition, let us give a certain margin to professionals who meet with people seeking medical assistance. Better than anyone, the latter can assess the premature nature of a request and advise a person to return after a few years, once the project has been matured, or, on the contrary, raise awareness of a person who does not seem to be in a hurry to carry out his or her project even as his or her fertility declines as his or her age progresses. To reassure you, be aware that a major plan for informing the population about fertility will be launched soon. Young women and men will thus be better informed and will be able to request further information from professionals. On this issue, work through regulations and with professionals. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u291	The amendment seeks to restrict, in the case of single women, the access of the MPA to those whose biological clock is running and who have no other solution to have a child, because they are not in stable relationships. Presumably, the majority of the cases that will occur will be consistent with this assumption. In the hearings I conducted, it is always the situation that is described. However, we do not wish to include it in the law because we want to ensure equal access to the MPA for all women. In addition, your proposal may pose a difficulty of interpretation and create litigation. Indeed, it seems difficult to find a satisfactory wording to evoke the biological clock. I understand the meaning of your amendment, but I am against it and suggest that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u292	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u293	The amendment does not mention any age in order to leave this to the discretion of professionals. It was nevertheless good to recall that the spirit of the law was not to allow a girl of eighteen years of age, either on a head-on or in a very thoughtful manner, to enter the LDC. I hear your arguments and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u294	Amendment No 2197 by Mrs Annie Genevard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u295	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 2525.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u296	This is an appeal amendment. It aims to take into account the different technical modalities of MPAs that may change the age conditions for accessing them. Indeed, the draft law provides that the age conditions required to qualify for an MPA will be fixed by decree in the Council of State, taken after the advice of the Agency of Biomedicine. Hearings indicated that the use of MPA could be allowed at a later age if an oocyte or embryo was donated, with the risk of failure of MPA limited compared to an MPA with older oocytes. I would therefore like to know the Government's intentions with regard to the decree governing the age for the use of the MPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u298	Once again, let us trust the coming decree and the professionals. The intention was laudable, but to be exhaustive and to take into account all the risk factors for women, the law would become too precise. It must indicate the direction and then trust those who appropriate it and put it into practice. The questions you raise are legitimate, but are only one part of the countless questions asked. When working either at the Biomedicine Agency or with the professionals concerned, it is realized that the latter must take into account multiple factors. Therefore, without advocating the creation of algorithms dedicated to this, let us at least know that professionals are working to find the optimal conditions for reducing the risks to women and to improve the chances of reproduction. I would suggest, once again, that the amendment be withdrawn, otherwise I will give an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u299	Amendment No 2466 by Mr Julien Aubert was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u300	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 21, 2594, 2595, 22, 118, 341, 600, 1554, 2083 and 889, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 21, 2594 and 2595 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 22, 341, 600, 1554 and 2083. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u301	This amendment is based on the notion of "the best interest of the embryo", which our rapporteur developed this morning when we addressed the issue of the transfer of post-mortem embryos. It is indeed necessary that we reduce as much as possible the number of supernumerary embryos. It is also important that we provide for a sufficient level of protection of the embryo against all drifts, by proposing to the couple another implantation as long as there are supernumerary human embryos. However, if another implantation could not be envisaged by the couple, it would remain the solution of a human embryo donation: this is what we propose through this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u302	Identical amendments Nos 2594 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 2595 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u303	I am surprised to see these amendments appearing in a joint debate, their objects being very different. However, I will defend this one, which aims to clarify that an embryo cannot be conceived in vitro with gametes not coming from at least one of the members of the couple. The text provides for the possibility of an MPA with two thirds donors: a man and a woman. The resulting child would therefore not share any genetic heritage with his or her parents. In addition to depriving a child of his or her ties to those who have given their gametes, this provision may open the door to a reproductive market, as parents may be tempted to choose their child's genetic characteristics. It is therefore only a continuation of the current law that we propose with this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u304	Amendment No 118 by Mrs Annie Genevard is being defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 341.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u305	This amendment tends to maintain the current law in order to avoid any risk of commodification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u306	Identical amendments Nos 600 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 1554 by Mrs Agnes Thill and 2083 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 889.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u307	This amendment is part of the joint debate, but is not identical to the previous ones, because, Madam Minister, if I also defend the fact that an embryo cannot be conceived in vitro with gametes not coming from at least one of the members of the couple or the unmarried woman, I would point out that this prohibition would be ruled out in the event of serious illness or medical impossibility. The idea is to prevent donations when they are not necessary. In this way, we would avoid the most risky technique and make sense of what is required of medicine. In the absence of pathology, it may not be necessary to use the gift. The use of two thirds of donors can be a solution in case of dual pathology, but only in this case. A guard is therefore necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u309	The opinion is unfavourable on all the amendments, even if it is for different reasons. Some would have the effect of reversing women's access to in vitro fertilization and reserving in vitro fertilization to couples. Others point to the need to minimize the production of supernumerary embryos. We share this goal, but in view of the proposed modalities, it does not seem possible to achieve it while allowing women to procreate. Finally, with regard to the risk of commodification, I believe that the current legal framework already allows it to be reduced to a minimum, and that there is no need to add additional devices to the existing belt and straps: there is little need for fear in this regard. As for the double donation of gametes, it seems necessary in some cases. We do not wish to go back to the progress of its authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u311	The amendments contained in this joint discussion can be divided into two categories. The first consists of provisions aimed at minimizing the number of embryos retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u312	That's the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u313	Indeed: Article L. 2141-1 of the Code of Public Health states that "the practices and procedures which limit the number of embryos preserved must be given priority. But you want to go much further by limiting the number of embryos fertilized by attempts to fertilize in vitro to the number of embryos transferred. From the point of view of medical technique, and taking into account the failure rate of in vitro fertilization with frozen embryos, applying this method would require regular ovarian stimulation – which involves risks for women – in order to obtain the sufficient number of oocytes. Obviously, this argument does not seem to convince the Republicans... Please forgive me, gentlemen Bazin and Courson, this is an unwelcome joke: I saw you raise your hand and was troubled by your haste to want to answer me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u314	It's stimulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u315	In reality, we want to prevent women from having to undergo the procedure several times in a row. In addition, we know that frozen embryos can be used for a second or even a third implantation for a second or third birth, so they are not necessarily destined for destruction and can be used to carry out a parental project in several stages. Like you, we are very eager to promote the vitrification of the oocytes, but this technique is not suitable in all cases, so we are forced to go further through in vitro fertilization and freezing – and therefore the vitrification of the embryos. The current framework seems to us to be balanced and fair, since it already provides for the choice of techniques to take account of the need to minimize the number of embryos retained. Until all of them have been transferred, a couple whose embryos have been preserved cannot benefit from another attempt at in vitro fertilization. The second category of amendments concerns the double donation of gametes. I understand the idea of favouring, in the case of double sterile couples, the reception of embryos already frozen. But studies show that couples are very reluctant to accept embryos from another story, from another parenting project. Embryo reception concerns only a limited number of cases – less than 20 per year, for a total of 200,000 frozen embryos. In fact, I repeat, parents find it difficult to carry out their parenting project from that of another couple. That is why we are opening up the possibility of double donation of gametes. We are therefore against your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u316	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u317	On the occasion of the examination of the previous texts on bioethics – I think I was the only one in this assembly who had the honour of attending the three debates – we had passionate discussions on the subject of supernumerary embryos. What is their status? At the time, the technology, in addition to legislation, prohibited the freezing of oocytes, even though it had already been developed in Japan. However, thanks to its development, we can now put an end to the situation of the non-right of supernumerary embryos: they are no longer things, but not yet beings. In German law, Madam Minister, it is only possible to fertilize oocytes within the limits of the number of embryos reimplanted, so as to avoid supernumerary embryos. So they do not exist over-Rhin, which in my view is the wisest solution. On the contrary, the one we adopted in France – the adoption of supernumerary embryos – is a real gas plant. As you recalled, this option results in the birth of only about 20 children per year. Why did we make this choice? So you don't want to destroy the embryos? Why, then, does the Government not propose a solution comparable to that adopted by Germany, in order to avoid ethical debates on the status of embryos – a problem that neither the original bill nor the text of the commission can solve?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u318	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u319	The scheduled time that the President has imposed on us does not allow us to have a long debate, but I would dream of having a real exchange on ovocative vitrification,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u320	Funny dream...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u321	... particularly on the progress that this technique has been making over the last two years. For having done comparative research on what is being done in countries where the number of supernumerary embryos is lower, I do not have the impression, when reading ethical reports, that the risks to women are not taken into account. It is sometimes interesting to draw on foreign experience, and perhaps it would be desirable to do so in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u322	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u323	I don't pretend you wouldn't, by the way. I come to the last amendment of the joint debate, which is intended to be constructive, since it allows, as you wish, the double donation of gametes, while guiding it. Rather than simply lifting the ban, a conditional authorization can be chosen. Indeed, whether they are single women, heterosexual couples or homosexual couples, since at least biological filiation is possible, I see no reason not to favour it. In fact, in most cases, the people concerned will resort to their own gametes. So why not allow the double donation only in cases of serious illness or medical impossibility, as my amendment proposes? The subject, I think, deserves some thought. I call on you to be wise: the double gift must be able to be medically justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u324	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u325	The ovocal vitrification technique, which is being deployed, will not solve all the problems, but will likely ultimately lead to a decrease in embryo freezing compared to previous years. We are indeed inheriting an ancient history. However, we should see a gradual shift towards ovocal vitrification. Mr Bazin, I do not understand why you wish to subject to a medical criterion the use of double gamete donation. Indeed, I do not see how an AMP team could do anything other than rely on a medical criterion. Donation of oocytes is rare, because oocytes are valuable. Therefore, no team of MPAs will perform in vitro fertilization from a double gamete donation without proven double infertility. If she can access the gametes of one of the members of the couple, she will have no interest in creating embryos from a double donation of gametes. I therefore do not understand the meaning of your amendment No 889.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u326	I have suspicions about private for-profit centers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u327	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u328	I do not want to relaunch the debate, but I have the impression that we are talking about a subject which we discussed at length earlier. Once again, a distinction is made between the heterosexual couple, to whom double donation of gametes is avoided whenever possible, and the homosexual couple, to whom the use of double donation will be imposed even if there are oocytes available in one of the two partners. I have a little difficulty following you, Mr Bazin: I do not understand why you did not support my amendment No 2143 and the rapporteur's identical amendment, which would have made it possible to clarify and frame matters in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u329	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1441 and 1533. Amendment No 1441 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1533.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u330	I want to defend him in particular. It is intended to clarify that the MPA cannot be implemented through gametes purchased abroad. We know that there will be a shortage of gametes, which will lead to tensions and the creation of a reproductive market. The argument that this practice is already prohibited by law is not admissible, since you considered it necessary earlier to recall the principle of non-discrimination in order to make it clear. In this context of scarcity, we wish to prevent any possibility of purchasing gametes abroad, which would be contrary to the principle of free donation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u331	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u332	You wish to prevent the importation of gametes into France. However, your concern is already largely satisfied, since the import of gametes from abroad is subject to an authorisation from the Agency for Biomedicine and must also comply with the ethical criteria laid down by French law, in particular free of charge. Of course, your request probably goes a little further, because you would probably want to ban the import of free gametes collected under the same conditions as in France, if necessary just across the border. But, in reality, it is already forbidden – which is what matters – to carry out any marketing, any importation of gametes that would not have been collected free of charge or that would be targeted, for example on the basis of genetic criteria. The fears that you might harbour are not likely to come true, because our right is very strict in this matter: there will be no import of gametes other than those produced under the strict ethical conditions imposed by French law. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u333	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1727.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u334	Over the course of the auditions, each of us discovered, I suppose, elements that were not known or familiar to him. For my part, I learned that a pairing was carried out upstream of the MPAs, taking into account, in particular, the physical characteristics of the parents. However, several people interviewed told us that they had not been informed beforehand and that they had learned much later. After internal reflection and discussion, our group felt that it should be mandatory to seek the views of future parents on whether or not to proceed with a matching prior to the attempt at AMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u336	I fully understand your intention, Mrs Battistel, especially since many of us have supported a measure to that effect. Given the current organization of the CECOS, matching is not easy to achieve when the demand for MPA comes from people from a minority ethnic group in our country. Therefore, these people have to wait much longer than others for their request to be met. But some of them have nothing but excessive pairing – I would remind you that the pairing done by CECOS takes into account morphotype, carnation and blood type. This goes against those concerned: by trying to help parents by making sure that their child born by a third-party donor has some resemblance to them, we sometimes go too far, which prevents the achievement of the AGP. It is important to correct this harmful situation. The choice must be left to the parents: some want partial matching; Others do not want to do so and make their wish to have a child first, even if it does not resemble them perfectly. I fully understand the meaning of your amendment, but I suggest that you withdraw it, because the recommendations on matching will have a greater place in Article 1a. Moreover, they can be even more comprehensive. They will in any case take up exactly the idea that you are defending: leave the choice to the family, whether it is a heterosexual couple, a homosexual couple or a woman alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u338	According to their good practice, CECOS must propose pairing to couples. But, obviously, some of them do not. I suggest that you ask the Biomedicine Agency to include in the information guide provided to families that the choice in this matter is theirs. This will clarify whether or not they have the right to accept pairing, whether it cannot be carried out in a systematic manner without their agreement. I invite you, too, to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u339	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u340	Consideration of this amendment is an opportunity to raise a highly sensitive issue. I would like to quote from an interview given by Professor Testart. In the early debates surrounding the revision of bioethics legislation, a newspaper asked him the following question: "CECOS are among the targets of your anger. Why? » He said, "I've been fighting them for thirty years because I think it's a lobby that completely hides its practices, and influences the law through the relays of influence that they have everywhere. They are for me the pioneers of the new eugenics that I regret. The practice of the LDC is probably France's best-controlled medical specialty, except for CECOS and sperm donation. » "In fact, they are the only ones responsible for the child's genetic origin since donations are still anonymous, and they have to choose donors well and then pair each with a recipient. On what criteria? No one knows, except for the resemblance to the social father. And the Biomedicine Agency, supposed to ensure transparency of practice, has never looked into this. However, CECOS are necessarily tempted to modify their selection criteria according to genetic discoveries, in order to obtain the "best" baby possible. It's freezing. » Our speaking time is limited, and I really find it a pity that we cannot go into further debate on these important issues, which would require clarification from the Government. We would like to know what can be done to ensure that ethical rules are strictly observed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u341	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u342	It's an old debate, minister. As for your proposal, it does not hold: it is not in the information guide that the principles should be included; we need to legislate to determine them and you need to take a text defining the conditions of application that apply to all CECOS. Otherwise, practices may be very different, which can pave the way for the most complete eugenics. It is absolutely necessary to regulate things. CECOS, which are financed entirely from public funds, cannot be left to define their own rules. It is up to Parliament to fix them, and to you to specify them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u343	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u344	If I have understood your answer, Mr rapporteur, the amendment is wrong: it should be linked to Article 1a. Maybe it's possible to put him back in the right place. In any case, we were not informed that it did not correspond to the content of Article 1. Minister, I hear your proposal to include in the information guide that the choice is up to the parents. So they will know that they have a say. And if their opinion is not sought, they will be able to ask if and how a match will be made. However, the approach may not be systematic, particularly if the guide has not been read. I therefore agree with Mr de Courson that the rule should be included in the law and that information should be widely disseminated. We are open to a further discussion on this subject during the discussion of Article 1a, but it hinders us, as it stands, to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u345	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 1346.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u346	I have already made a broad statement of the problem earlier, and you have not really answered me, minister. From a technical point of view, thanks to the cryogenization of the oocytes, we could now adopt a position similar to that of Germany, i.e. prevent the creation of supernumerary embryos. You mention some particular cases in which you need them, but you have to eliminate this category. Can you tell me what the legal status of supernumerary embryos is, minister? I can also ask the rapporteur the same question. I would be curious to hear your answer: is it a good? Is it a person? What's that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u348	I had the impression that Mr de Courson wanted to make this issue a singular colloquium with the minister, but as a last resort he called me, asking for legal advice. But I'm not a lawyer! Let us return to your amendment, my dear colleague, on which our opinion is unfavourable. Its application supposes, in what you are right, to reduce the approximately 220,000 supernumerary embryos, the number of which is unreasonable. As the minister said, the self-conservation of oocytes offers hope; Several solutions will spontaneously reduce the excessive production of supernumerary embryos. On the other hand, burning the steps, as you and others suggest, could turn against women. You propose, as some countries do like Germany, to practice only the conservation of oocytes, never embryos, and to merge in vitro, whenever necessary, oocytes and sperm. But this sometimes results in women being forced to undergo more ovarian stimulation. I assure you that if the centres in LDCs have a small number of embryos in advance, in order to be able to make a second or third attempt – each one has only 20% chances of success, and unfortunately we have to repeat the operation – it is for the benefit of women and not for pleasure. Doctors would prefer to make fewer attempts and obtain a positive result from the outset. As long as we do not make sufficient progress in embryo research, and we do not rule out non-viable embryos, re-implanted in large numbers for nothing, with painful consequences for women, that will be the price to pay. The articles of Title IV will make progress in this direction; I hope you will support us to expand embryo research and allow us to focus on the conservation and use of viable embryos – not those that have no chance of developing. Indeed, of all those who are frozen, about 220000, half are probably carrying such chromosomal anomalies that they have no chance of ever becoming fetuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u349	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u350	The oocyte freezing technique has been allowed since 2011 and has increased by 80% – this is a technique that is developing and expanding. However, the results of in vitro fertilizations from ovocal vitrification are twice as good as those from fertilizations from embryo thawing, with about 8% of pregnancies occurring, compared with 15% to 16% in the second case. Until the results are comparable, it will be difficult to completely abandon one technique for the benefit of the other. However, research is progressing on methods of freezing and thawing oocytes; Maybe in a few years, we won't need to freeze embryos. For now, we're not here. I am therefore against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u351	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u352	Mr rapporteur, if all your amendments were adopted, I would be even more worried about the world we are building for tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u353	I'd say the same thing about you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u354	But we're really worried!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u355	The conjugation of your wishes for the AGP, for research and for screening nourishes my concern, which arises from my convictions. This does not detract from the respect I owe you; I am struck by your plans, even though I recognize their consistency and your sincerity. In reply to the Minister's earlier remarks on double donation in the absence of medical necessity, I would like to say that it seems obvious to me that most beneficiaries will choose this possibility, but there is a possible drift. [[Minister and rapporteur acquiescent]] We discuss the articles one after the other, but we must consider the cocktail of the whole text, as well as its potential effects. We ask ourselves what Article 1 contains, what Article 14 contains, but we must imagine the result of their conjugation – what you do easily. Some would like to see the extension of the IPR. It is their right, but we see that it is possible to control during IVF elements that escape in the case of insemination. The double donation ban is an additional protection against eugenic drift. Fortunately, this will not be done by all, but the temptation exists to select embryos, a selection that insemination makes much more difficult since at least one of the two gametes does not pose a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u356	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1980 and 1445, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1980.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u357	My reflection is in keeping with our discussion of supernumerary embryos. I would like to add two arguments. First, we need to think about families faced with a difficult choice as to the future of these embryos; They do not know whether they should opt for destruction or donation to research. Secondly, we can fully understand the need for a stock of embryos for research. We all agree that this stock is important, as it amounts to more than 220000. However, research needs less and less of these embryos, because we are moving towards research into embryonic stem cell lines, which are of much greater interest. I am beginning to hear your arguments, Madam Minister, about the rate of evolution of oocyte thawing techniques, but we must ensure that these supernumerary embryos are quickly removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u358	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1445.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u359	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u360	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments for joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u361	He's unfavorable. I hate having to take an embryology class and act differently than just a member of Parliament. Nevertheless, it must be stressed that what you and Mr. Bazin fear in the case of in vitro fertilization is nothing more than what nature itself does whenever embryos are formed by a woman and her husband and are removed without the knowledge of the woman: half of them are not viable and will not implant in the uterus. Only, in the laboratory, the selection of nature does not operate. How to copy nature? We will have the opportunity to return – on that day, Mr Bazin will listen to the explanation. If we follow your proposal, Mrs Brocard, women should be told that the chances of success of each in vitro fertilization are no longer 18% or 19%, but 9%, and instead of making four attempts on average, they will make eight. Medically and humanly, we cannot impose this on women who have already had a painful journey of the combatant. The amendments anticipate a future which we all dream of, and which we hope will be as close as possible. But today, without a sufficient number of embryos to ensure a good chance of getting the desired child – only 60% – the woman will be subjected to terrible constraints. It would therefore be wiser to abstain for a few years from similar proposals until the success rate of IVFs reaches more than 30 or 40%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u363	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u364	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u365	Our colleague Charles de Courson referred to this: the Germans have a very strict practice in this field, and we see that it works. The argument that the prohibition on the design of supernumerary embryos would create new problems is therefore not valid. Germany's choice is probably linked to its very painful history, but I regret that we were not trying to be more parsimonic in the use of embryos, when it is not necessary. An embryo is still the beginning of a life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u366	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u367	The Germans are linked to their history, but the Swiss wanted to copy their model: it was a obvious failure, they are now returning to the initial practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u368	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u369	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u370	Two references have been made to the German model, so I would like to clarify the national representation in this respect. The Germans have a much more rigid regulation than ours, a consequence of their history. In particular, they banned the donation of oocytes. This is why many German couples go abroad because they do not have access to medically assisted procreation in case of infertility of the woman. In Germany, the success rate in MPA is very low. The French system is therefore more effective, conceived in the interests of all couples: the rate of birth per puncture is better, there are fewer multiple pregnancies and fewer miscarriages. We therefore do not wish to take an example of the German system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u371	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u372	Mr rapporteur, since you seem to share our wish to overcome the supernumerary embryos, do you not think that we could under-amend the amendments by stating that they define a goal to be achieved within four to five years?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u373	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u374	You are optimistic; let us leave to those who will be in charge of the next revision of the law of bioethics the care to decide. I cannot anticipate – the specialists themselves do not – the date when the success rates of IVFs will improve substantially. These have been practiced for more than forty years – Louise Brown celebrated her fortieth anniversary last year – and the results have improved very little. Yes, I hope that the next decade will see the improvements expected, but I dare not comment on a date. So let us not decide today when we can allow ourselves to significantly reduce the number of supernumerary embryos. Be confident, however, Mrs Brocard – because I understand your concern – that the simple authorization of the use of self-conservation of oocytes will naturally encourage this reduction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u375	Mrs Brocard, would you like to correct your amendment in order to introduce a deadline? It would be possible to add to the amendment the sentence "This provision applies from 2025, or..."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u376	The presiding officer really has a jupitian side.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u377	I give you a pole, it's up to you to seize it: how long do you want to register?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u378	I would like to correct the amendment. The provision should apply from 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u379	2025, then.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u380	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Guillaume Chiche, Mrs Agnes Thill and Mrs Coralie Dubost also smile]] Mr President, you should co-sign the amendment as long as you are there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u381	I do not cosign anything, I simply write the corrections that are requested of me. This is the logic of this work; It's about clarifying things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u382	Identical amendments No 647 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and No 1535 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u383	Amendment No 1442 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u384	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 2053.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u385	The purpose of this amendment is to consolidate the arrangements provided for in Articles 1 and 16 on the fate of embryos in the event of the death of one of the members of the couple. We were upset by the original arrangement; Fortunately, the discussions in committee seemed to be moving in the right direction and suggesting a common position. We discussed these issues earlier: the disappearance of a relative is a difficult time, especially when it is necessary to choose whether or not to continue a LDC... We propose that each year, at the time when the couple is consulted to determine whether they are maintaining their parenting project, they should also be asked about the fate of embryos in the event of the death of one of their members, and be able to agree that, where appropriate, the embryo should be given to reception or research. In the event of the death of a member of the couple, it will therefore be the will of the upstream couple that must be respected, unless the surviving member revokes his consent. The preservation of embryos will then be terminated. Finally, if there is still disagreement among the members of the couple as to the fate of the embryos, the preservation of the embryos will be terminated in the event of the death of one of its members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u386	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u387	This amendment was rejected at the meeting held under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, but I personally consider it to clarify the situation. He tends to give parents a greater place, to involve them better in future decisions, so that I rely on the wisdom of the congregation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u388	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u389	The amendment, which must be read with Amendment No 2054, which will be discussed in Article 16, provides for changes to the current law. Today, in the event of the death of a member of a couple engaged in a path of reproductive medical assistance, it is up to the surviving member to make his decision as to the future of the embryo, which, as a result of the spouse's death, is no longer part of the parental project. I have heard in the Special Committee your willingness to amend this mechanism to ensure that the surviving member is not solely responsible for this decision. This is a delicate issue, which must be addressed without dimming the parenting project unnecessarily, since the cases of the spouse's death are fortunately very rare. The amendment seems to me to strike a balance. It allows the two members of the couple to decide, at the annual consultation, whether to maintain their parental project concerning the fate of embryos, in the event of the death of one of the spouses. They will be able to decide calmly if they wish, in this case, to have their embryos welcomed by another couple, or by an unmarried woman, or to be the subject of a search. The surviving member will always retain the opportunity to revoke his or her consent – there is no reason to deny it. It seems to me that this amendment is balanced. I am therefore in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u390	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u391	Amendment No 2128 by Mr Raphaël Gérard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u392	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2130.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u393	This amendment should please our colleague Thibault Bazin, since it goes back to the current obligation of women's couples who include a transgender woman who has retained sperm prior to her transition, to resort to the sperm of a third party donor – while gametes are available within the couple. I have already had several times the opportunity to quote the work of Laurence Hérault, who found that CECOS still often imposed vasectomy on transgender women, in accordance with a transsexual principle that seems to go back to the 19th century. The aim is to prevent cases where CECOS would force women's couples to resort to a third-party donor, while gametes are available within the couple.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u394	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u395	I personally support this amendment. The Commission, for its part, rejected it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u396	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u397	Your amendment proposes to extend the joint recognition scheme to women using an MPA with their own gametes. As you know, of course, procreation requires an ovoyte and sperm, so two women cannot procreate without the intervention of a third-party donor. Although your amendment does not make it clear, in reality it is intended to allow for the medical assistance of a couple of women, one of whom was previously a man, who would have changed their sex in civil status, while maintaining their male reproductive apparatus and keeping their gametes. It therefore tends to allow transgender filiation. I would remind you that the only cases of transgender filiation that we know did not involve recourse to the AGP. However, the amendment deals only with the MPA. You know, MP, the Government's position on this matter – we discussed it this morning – that people who have taken legal action to change gender must be treated, under the law, as being of their new sex declared to civil status. For these reasons, I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u398	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 2285.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u399	The aim of this amendment is to prevent excessive hormonal stimulation during procedures for reproductive health care. Currently, hormonal stimulation is common in LDC protocols, including when infertility is not ovarian, which is generally the case in female couples. We are then faced with infertility of the couple and not of the couple's wives. This amendment concerns women who use artificial insemination, whether with their spouse's sperm or with a donor's sperm, and is intended to assure them that they will be able to choose the degree of medicalization of the process in which they engage. Currently, insemination protocols usually involve hormonal treatment for women prior to insemination itself, with the aim of stimulating the ovaries to obtain more oocytes than in a conventional ovarian cycle. The goal is therefore to maximize the chances for the couple to conceive a child. While this can be entirely beneficial, it is not always necessary. For example, the usefulness of ovarian stimulation for a person who ovulates in a non-pathological way or even releases more oocytes than the average can be questioned. Indeed, infertility can be linked exclusively to man without this protocol being revised. Women's infertility problems may not affect their ovulation. This is particularly the case for lesbian couples who do not have individual fertility problems a priori. Hormonal treatments are not anodized, their daily intramuscular administration is painful and side effects are numerous and feared by patients. We therefore propose, in accordance with the principle of free and informed consent of the patient, that women should have the opportunity not to consent at this stage of the protocol when it is not dictated by medical necessity, without disturbing or hindering their care by the medical profession. The amendment, I would like to point out, is the result of a proposal for family planning, which we are taking up again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u400	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u401	Mrs Danièle Obono, it may be considered that your amendment is already satisfied, since in theory it is forbidden for any doctor to do unnecessary ovarian stimulations, i.e. not required for the procreation or treatment of the woman. In practice, some cases are probably exceptions. This question, however, concerns the relevance of care. As you know, extensive work on a very large number of care has been undertaken with a view to monitoring and codifying good practice. All irrelevant acts – currently estimated at about 30% of medical acts – must be tracked, denounced, framed and eliminated, as they are painful for the sick and costly for social security. This enterprise has been growing for several years, almost a decade. It is up to the professionals to define the rules between themselves, and then the control organisations to ensure that these rules are followed properly and that there is no excess. I do not see, however, how the legislator could make a medical prescription. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment and to forward your and family planning information to the Biomedicine Agency, or regional health agencies, when you have been notified of irrelevant prescriptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u402	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u403	I will only add one comment to the rapporteur's remarks. Indeed, your amendment deals in full with the issue of good clinical practice and is in essence satisfied by the law, since a doctor cannot do anything other than respect them. I just want to reassure you that, apart from the supervision by the centres, which issue authorisations and ensure that good practice is respected, the Biomedicine Agency exercises annual control and is able to identify deviant centres. A centre where in vitro fertilisation – and thus, to answer to Mr Bazin, embryo manufacturing – would be far too frequent, or a centre where the number of ovarian stimulations would be much higher than the national average would be immediately monitored by the Biomedicine Agency, would be subject to control and should justify its practices. In fact, all this is being examined very closely. Moreover, it is not necessary to include in the law an issue that is relevant to the acts, since it is not a legislative level. It is up to the doctor to determine what is the right technique for each patient. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u404	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u405	I maintain our amendment, which is similar to an appeal amendment. It is not, of course, a question of telling practitioners what they should do, but we want patients to benefit from good practices; the existence of cases of excessive stimulation is established. The amendment follows on from the evidence gathered by the family planning and through hearings that we have conducted. The legislator must provide guarantees in this area and better regulate practices. That is why we propose adding this indication in order to hasten the end of the acts imposed without the consent of the patients, mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u406	[[At 19:30, Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u407	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u408	I would like to go back to the argument that medical procedures are appropriate, put forward by the Minister and the rapporteur. They say they want to track down inappropriate medical procedures; How do they justify the use of reproductive medical assistance by a fertile heterosexual couple, who do not need a medical act? How do they justify, for these couples, the lifting of the criterion of infertility found?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u409	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u410	I understand your question, but it is hard to see how the legislator would force the AMP centres to track down the ability or desire to sleep together among the members of a couple. Couples report to be infertile after a year; AMP centres verify that they have no sterility problems and that their infertility is not a medical reason. But we are beyond the relevance of the acts – a concept that refers to the adaptation of a medical protocol to a clinical situation. As we know, many couples do not manage to have children naturally for psychological reasons. Once a child is born with reproductive medical assistance, they become capable of procreation alone, but without the AMP, this trigger does not occur. We cannot therefore eliminate the possibility of using the LDC for couples who declare themselves to be infertile. In any case, this criterion will disappear from the law once the text has been passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u411	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u412	Minister, I understand that you are embarrassed to answer us. Today, this criterion of infertility – which may not be pathological – exists, since it is necessary to have evidence of infertility in order to initiate the procedure of the MPA. From the moment there is no longer a medical dimension, how can the criterion of relevance of medical procedures be applied to the MPA? This is a medical procedure, or you have to change the name of medical assistance to procreation! How can this criterion be applied, whereas the couple has another means, which does not require intervention and does not commit any budgetary means? In my view, the criterion of relevance is hampered by the opening of the LDC to fertile heterosexual couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u413	I have before me a series of identical amendments, Nos 24, 343, 567, 890 and 1444. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u414	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u415	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 343.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u416	Until 2013, the law clearly prohibited embryo research. The 2013 Act changed legislation, making embryo research possible after authorisation by the Biomedicine Agency. Today, article 1, paragraph 11, which we wish to delete, provides that parents may consent to medical research on supernumerary embryos, which raises ethical questions. As a matter of caution, the intended device should be removed in order not to encourage research on embryos and embryonic cells, especially since, as many researchers point out, there are now other possibilities: research on IPS cells – induced pluripotent strain cells –, cord cells and non-embryonic strain cells.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u417	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 567.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u418	My amendment is based on the same spirit and I agree with Mr Hetzel's arguments on alternative research. There is another difficulty: the responsibility for parent research is placed on the part of parents, who are not researchers and do not necessarily have all the technical elements in hand. In order to give an informed, comprehensive and relevant opinion, it is necessary to understand all the ins and outs of the process. It's not an offence for anyone to say that you can be embarrassed when you're offered this possibility: so, do you want to advance the research? Yes, of course! Do you want to allow other parents to have a different life or prevent children from contracting a particular disease? I'm not saying that scientists or caregivers are putting pressure on parents – it would be a bad trial of intent – but they're not specialists, so drifts are possible. The amendment also seeks to avoid them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u419	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 890.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u420	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u421	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1444.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u422	Defended as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u423	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u424	Mr. Hetzel summarized the evolution of our bioethics laws. In 1994, the first bioethics law provided for a large number of prohibitions: organ transplants with a living donor were only allowed between first-degree parents; embryo and strain cell research was prohibited; opportunities to use the LDC were very limited, etc. The laws that followed – 2004, 2011, 2019-2020 – go back to some of these prohibitions because experience shows that with timely supervision, some steps can be taken without undermining fundamental ethical values or opposing the interests of the people concerned. This is a natural evolution, in which embryo research is part of it. It was forbidden until one was sure to be able to supervise it perfectly; But there was something unusual about being able to do research on the fetuses and newborns, but not on the embryos.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u425	We don't suppress the fetuses and newborns to do research!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u426	But we don't remove embryos for that, Mr. Breton!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u427	To do research on the embryo, it must be removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u428	No, we're working on embryos for destruction; No embryos have ever been manufactured in our country for research purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u429	Maybe, but that's the consequence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u430	No, among the supernumerary embryos – about 220,000 in the freezers – some are donated to other couples for reproductive purposes, and a few others are researched during the first 14 days of development, before being destroyed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u431	They are therefore well removed. Assume it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u432	Some research is also carried out on unviable fetuses, under very controlled conditions. All this is done with a very strict control that many countries are resenting. I think it is normal to apply the same rules to the embryo as to the human foetus. If one wants to overcome the difficulties mentioned – too many supernumerary embryos in freezers, too little success of in vitro fertilization – it is important to know the initial stages of development. And to know them, there is no other way than observational research or research on the first days of embryonic development. There must be no excessive fear of scientific research. Centuries ago, our ancestors were very shocked the first time doctors performed autopsies, the first time we studied blood circulation. It was then transgressions; but we would not have the current level of medicine if the anatomo-clinical method of understanding the damage that a disease produces on an organ had not developed. In the same way, we will not progress in procreation if we forbid any research on the embryo.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u433	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u434	You want to remove, for couples and single women, the possibility of giving research the embryos that are no longer the subject of a parental project, rather than destroying them. On the one hand, the rapporteur pointed out that embryo research is highly supervised. On the other hand, your argument that there are alternatives does not hold: IPS cells, genetically reprogrammed, do not at all give the same types of information as cells from a frozen embryo; Non-embryonic strain cells – tissue strain cells – only provide information about the tissue to which they are to give birth. As the rapporteur pointed out, embryo research is essential to improve in vitro fertilisation techniques. By providing a better understanding of whether an embryo will or will not be implanted, they will improve medically assisted reproductive techniques. We also know that it is at very early stages of development, even before the appearance of tissues – the stage at which frozen embryos are found – that the first abnormalities that cause certain diseases that will develop in the child will occur. I often quote the example of pediatric cancers: the understanding of embryogenesis will allow us to better understand the anomalies found in some very rare and very difficult cancers to treat. Access to these cells is therefore essential. Finally, I can reassure you: the research is so framed that of the 19,000 frozen embryos that couples have given to science since 2004 – the date on which the research was authorised – only 2000 were used by researchers. We consider the text to be balanced: it maintains fundamental guarantees such as the prohibition on the creation of embryos for research purposes; it maintains the prohibition of transmission to the progeny of any modification of the genome, consistent with the major international texts regulating this research. We propose, with articles 14 to 16, and Frédérique Vidal will talk about it better than I do, to better frame new technical possibilities. The idea is therefore not to ban research, but to allow researchers to work on an ongoing basis, while maintaining the existing ethical framework and adapting it to new technologies. That is why I am against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u435	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u436	We will have the opportunity to discuss the effectiveness of research at a later stage. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur: he says that we are conducting research on the embryo, as we are doing on the fetuses or newborns. Only, at the end, the embryo is removed, while the foetus and the newborn continue to live. I understand that this removal is not the result of will, but the immediate effect of research. So your argument is not: research on the embryo, I repeat, leads to the destruction of the embryo. And if assuming it is not a problem, the comparison with the foetus and the newborn is dishonest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u437	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u438	It is worth repeating that supernumerary embryos are destined for destruction. And, indeed, the couple can decide that the embryo, before it is destroyed, is the object of research – but, anyway, I insist on it, the embryo will be destroyed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u439	Why this comparison with the fetuses and newborns?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u440	It has never been created and there will never be embryonic research in France. As far as induced pluripotent stem cells are concerned, I will give the same answer as in committee: we would like them to be the dream tool that replaces the rest, but we are not there. These are manipulated cells, in which four genes have been injected. All the specialists, all the supporters of this technology will explain to you that they are still obliged to keep what is called the "standard gold", i.e. access to embryonic stem cells which, in fact, derive from these supernumerary embryos.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u441	I should like to inform you that I shall adjourn the meeting a little before 20 hours and that we will therefore not necessarily have finished with a debate which deserves to be examined in detail, which we shall therefore resume at 20 hours and 30 hours. I say so that everyone feels free to express themselves as much as he wishes. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u442	Mr Breton, most, or in any case much of the research on the human foetus and the newborn is carried out on fetuses who have died as a result of spontaneous miscarriage or interruption of pregnancy, and on newborns who are sometimes dead or are about to die. This research is supervised, followed by specific rules, and has the approval of ethics committees. We do not have to regret this research, because it has helped to reduce many very serious diseases. Let's trust you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u443	But here, we do not cause the death of the fetuses and newborns, they have died of themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u444	It comes back to the same with an embryo dying because it was taken out of the freezer: it spontaneously destroys in a few hours. Taking a cell is in no way different from taking one from a newborn or a fetus who is suffering from a serious and fatal disease. You then propose research on IPS cells as an alternative solution. But you still know that these are genetically modified organisms, GMOs! These cells can be transformed into gametes, with all the ethical danger they pose. These cells can only be manipulated compared to embryonic stem cells. Also, every time we do research on IPS cells, embryonic stem cells are available as a control element, otherwise we would go on a very adventurous terrain. Tomorrow, the benefits of research on IPS cells may be considerable, I agree, but for the time being, this research remains even more dangerous than that on embryonic stem cells. Do not claim that IPS cells are an alternative; They are an additional, complementary and forward-looking means – and we thank the Japanese researchers who have been awarded the Nobel Prize for this beautiful discovery – but they will not now bring therapeutic solutions to which embryonic stem cells are hardly starting to contribute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u445	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u446	The debate on these subjects is still epidermal. You used a term that shocked me, Mr. Breton, saying that embryos were being killed for research. No. The embryo is not a human being, but a cluster of cells. In addition, your argument does not hold. Indeed, we are already destroying a considerable number of embryos: around 8000 per year. This, because the parents chose destruction. When they no longer have a parenting project, they issue a notice: they choose between destruction, search or donation. In 64% of cases, however, parents ask for destruction – this was the case for 8,000 embryos in 2018 –; in 23% of cases – for 2800 embryos – they propose the embryo for research; Finally, in 13% of cases, they propose to donate it to another family. The proportion of embryos used for research compared to those which, by the will of the parents, are destroyed, removes its strength from your argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u447	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u448	I repeat my question to both the rapporteur and the minister: what is the legal status of the supernumerary embryo? You said something that shocked me, minister: the embryo is a pile of cells.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u449	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u450	Oh, no, we're not going to relaunch the abortion debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u451	I am a pile of cells, Madam Minister. But we don't do any research on myself without my consent. Rabelais said that "science without conscience is only the ruin of the soul". However, as legislators, we have not answered this question that has haunted bioethics debates for years: what is the legal status of the supernumerary embryo? One invokes technique, yet one must have a certain conception of beings. Anyway, I'm sorry, but the supernumerary embryo is not just a pile of cells.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u452	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-26-E2014.u453	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
