ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft amending finance law for 2019 (No. 2427).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u2	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u3	We are meeting today to discuss the text prepared on 18 November by the Joint Joint Committee on the provisions that remain under discussion after the adoption in each assembly of the amending finance bill – PLFR – for 2019. As has already been repeated several times, this PLFR for 2019 is in line with the PLFR for 2018, as it does not contain provisions that could have found their place in a PLF – finance bill. For the second year in a row, the provisions of the budget collective submitted to Parliament at the end of the year are limited to management end adjustments. At the request of many parliamentarians on all benches, the Government had thus broken with the old practice of making the PLFR a "PLF bis", a catch-up exercise of the PLF review. This new practice must be credited to him and explains why the Senate adopted the PLFR for 2019. Moreover, the result obtained at the end of parliamentary work is close to the text submitted by the Government. I would like to point out that Parliament has also played the game. Very few amendments of a fiscal nature or amendments which could have found their place in the PLF have been tabled. The amendments relating to budgetary appropriations are entirely justified. In fact, far from losing importance, the PLFR has simply changed its nature: from an exercise of a mainly fiscal nature to an exercise of a mainly budgetary nature. In budgetary matters, as everyone knows, parliamentary authority is to set a spending limit per programme, which in no way obliges the Government to spend the entire appropriation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u5	On the other hand, Parliament has the right to monitor the implementation of the appropriations in order to ensure that they are properly managed and that the implementation is in line with the guidelines presented by the Government during the review of the Finance Act. The FRPL is the only fiscal time that takes place during the fiscal year, since, traditionally, six months separate the end of a fiscal year from the review of its proposed Regulations. Parliament is therefore in its role when it proposes in PLFR to adjust the allocation of appropriations at the end of the financial year. Depending on the needs it identifies, it is legitimate that it proposes to reinstate all or part of the proposed cancellations on a particular program. I come to the substance of the text proposed by the Joint Joint Committee to this House. At first reading, the National Assembly did not change the PLFR. The Senate, on the other hand, adopted four budget amendments, three of which were initiated by its Finance Committee, and one government coordination amendment on the balance item. The text of the CMP contains two of the four amendments proposed by the Senate on matters that had not been dealt with in the Assembly. This is, on the one hand, the restoration of the appropriations of the precautionary reserve of the "Heritage" programme of the "Culture" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u7	It is therefore proposed to restore EUR 25 million in EA – commitment authorisations – and EUR 21 million in CP – payment appropriations – corresponding to the thawing of the precautionary reserve. Last year, the reserve had been thawed, in particular to ensure that funding from the Heritage Lotto was actually added to the programme's appropriations. Furthermore, as honourable senators have pointed out, the needs identified show that the department is in a priori able to use these credits effectively in 2019. On the other hand, it is the restoration of EUR 13 million in EA and CP on the programme "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research", to cover the cost of France's contribution to the ITER project – International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor – in 2019. Without the restoration of these credits, a debt would probably amount to EUR 13 million. It was intended to be resolved in 2020, but the problem could again arise in 2021. However, the Finance Bill for 2020 does not include appropriations to settle the contribution due for 2019 in 2020. The CMP wishes to make these appropriations available for France to honour its commitments as early as 2019. The restoration of these appropriations and the appropriations of the "Heritage" programme would have a total budgetary impact of 38.4 million euros in EA and 34.3 million euros in CP compared to the draft amending finance law adopted at first reading. As a reminder, the PLFR proposes cancellations of CP net openings of EUR 1.5 billion. On the other hand, the CMP did not wish to retain two provisions introduced by the Senate. The first was to restore 250 million euros in AE and 70 million euros in CP on the "Defence" mission. The cancellation of these appropriations had been incorporated by the Ministry of Defence, as they correspond to frozen appropriations or appropriations rendered irrelevant by better than expected control of the cost of certain contracts. It is proven and verified that such cancellations will not affect the operational capacity of the armed forces. The second called for the re-establishment of EUR 35 million on the "Student Life" programme of the "Research and Higher Education" mission, in so far as the appropriations cancelled correspond globally to credits that have become moot. I note, moreover, that, on this programme, most of the precautionary reserve has been thawed, since it initially amounted to EUR 76 million. Finally, I note that after the cancellations proposed on this programme, the appropriations for 2019 would remain 25 million euros higher than the appropriations consumed in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Joint Committee presents you with a text based on consensual and thorough parliamentary work, as part of the renewed approach to the examination of the collective budget intended by both the Government and Parliament. I therefore propose that you adopt the text drawn up by the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u8	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u9	The rapporteur-general has said everything. As has been repeated several times, the Government's approach to Parliament – no advance decree, no tax provisions in the PLFR – has shown its effectiveness. All I have to do is pay tribute to the work done by the parliamentarians. Five or six years ago, in fact, we had not seen a joint joint committee conclude positively, even though the majority in the Senate differs from that of the Assembly – and for spending the weekend in the Senate, I can testify that the atmosphere is certainly very friendly, but not as favourable to the majority as on these benches. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I welcome this happy conclusion and thank the departments of my ministry and the parliamentarians of both chambers, regardless of the political group in which they sit, for this efficient and timely work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u10	In the general debate, Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u11	The amending finance bill that we are considering has been agreed upon in the Joint Joint Committee, without the addition of any tax measure during its first reading in each House of Parliament, which enshrines the use of this law as a tool for adjusting the budgetary balance of the Finance Act for 2019 and not as a means of catching up with tax measures that would not be passed into the PLF. Moreover, the fact that the Government had not resorted to the advance decrees was evidence of the preservation of the sincerity of the budget appropriations, which the IDU, Action and Independent Group wished to welcome. However, like last year, we found ourselves, for lack of time, in a situation which made it difficult to carry out our monitoring mission: only two days to get the text, analyse it and possibly draft amendments, is still very insufficient. The amending finance bill is an important piece of legislation, which concerns all of our fellow citizens and whose vote is the responsibility of our parliamentarians. We would therefore like, Mr.Minister, to see an improvement in the timetable for its review in the future. Let us come to the text itself, which contains only ten articles and aims to ensure the end of the management of the 2019 financial year. I will not dwell on the macroeconomic aspect, mentioned by my colleague Lise Magnier at first reading. As we have said, your growth estimate is considered achievable, although more optimistic than other forecasts. A few points, however, have caught our attention. First of all, it is pleased to note that the agreement in CMP allowed for developments concerning the cancellation of appropriations for certain missions. Thus, the amount cancelled from the 175 "Heritage" programme of the Culture Mission is reduced, allowing for the retention of 25.4 million euros in commitment authorisations and 21.2 million euros in payment appropriations. This is a true proof of the usefulness of parliamentary work, which has confirmed the Government's commitment to abundate the wealth credits to the amounts collected by the Heritage Lotto. Our group is very attached to the diversity of our heritage wealth. I would also like to point out that we have proposed, through an amendment by our colleague Pierre-Yves Bournazel to the draft finance law for 2020, that the appropriations for this programme for the restoration of French heritage should be increased by EUR 20 million. The cancellation of the credits I have just mentioned was the most visible, but others are questioning us. This is, first of all, the case of overseas employment, for which appropriations are cancelled in the order of EUR 100 million: this concern must be addressed. Secondly, the prison administration's investment programme has its payment appropriations reduced by EUR 52 million, whereas we have already made such a reduction for 2020. Finally, we see a net decrease of €70 million in the payment appropriations of the Defence Mission compared to the BIA – the original finance law – for 2019. In the future, if we do not want to use interdepartmental solidarity to finance OPEX – external operations – at least try to better budget them by raising the appropriations in the Defence mission to more than 1.2 billion euros. Finally, and without going into the detail of the bill, it seems to me that sections 2 and 3 confirm certain remarks that we have been able to make on a recurring basis in the course of the examination of other legislation, whether it is the need for sustainable financing for transport infrastructure or the limitations of the practice of allocations, which leads to the loss of legibility in the budget, particularly with regard to energy transition policy. Whether it is about deadlines, the sincerity of the budget, the absence of tax measures or the cancellation of appropriations, let us try to learn from this debate in the perspective of examining the next collective budget, by strengthening the positive aspects and improving what needs to be. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LaREM groups. – Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei also applauds]] In the meantime, the IUD, Action and Independents Group will vote without reservations on this amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u12	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u13	Let us not prolong the suspense: Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote very much against the amending finance bill, for reasons of substance, of course – I will explain them – but also because of the unacceptable conditions in which the parliamentary debate took place. The representatives of other groups have said so and, more discreetly, some members of the majority have admitted it to us: we cannot legislate satisfactorily within such a time frame. Is it normal that we had only twenty-one hours between the Government's tabling of the text and its consideration in the Finance Committee, knowing that, at the same time, it was sitting day and night to discuss the non-attached articles of the budget for 2020? Contrary to the promises of spring, it is increasingly apparent that act 2 of this quinquennium will not be that of better listening to intermediate bodies. It also seems to be assumed that it will not be that of the rehabilitation of Parliament either. Was there such an urgency for us to be obliged to deliberate within such a time frame? Mr. Minister, you are justifying this step-by-step examination by the fact that the text is smaller than in the past and provides for smaller movements of appropriations. That is true, but the sincerity of the budget, which you put forward, suffers from your too optimistic growth forecasts. Recall that the initial projection was 1.7% for 2019, and that the PLFR finally retains a rate of 1.4%, to which no one anymore believes. Indeed, in order to reach this level, we would need a 0.5-point increase in the fourth quarter. The Bank of France estimated it to be 0.2% two weeks ago. In these circumstances, can we still talk about a collective faithful to the reality of things? Note that if our growth reached 1.3%, our structural deficit would increase from 2.2% to 2.3%. Taking into account the effect of the CICE's shift – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – in decline in social contributions, it would therefore remain equal to 3.1 points of GDP. Of course, we do not make Maastricht criteria an unsurpassable totem, but they still serve the objective of improving public management. As regards the fight against deficits, we can therefore do better. Your policy also leads to a slippage from the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022. As my colleague Charles de Courson has already requested, it is therefore urgent that a new programming law be proposed to us. Our group also had the opportunity to express, during the review of the 2020 budget, its disapproval to see you weaken in the fight against deficits, and even more of its opposition to your choice to target tax cuts on the upper middle classes and not to invest enough in the ecological transition. The reduction of the deficit of EUR 10 billion, often highlighted, is mainly due to the dynamism of revenues. In other words, resources, so French taxes, are increasing. As far as expenditure is concerned, the reduction of EUR 1.5 billion promised a year ago is finally limited to EUR 1 billion. So you are giving up on your commitments, which are already very modest. Your government estimates the structural effort for 2019 at 0.3 points, or 7 billion euros. However, two thirds of this decrease – 0.2 points – is due to the mechanical decline in debt charges and therefore owes nothing to your share. It is an economy of observation linked to the economic situation, not a structural effort. Nevertheless, let us highlight the few adjustments allowed by the CMP: the thawing of 21 million euros within the "Heritage" programme to enable the DRACs – regional directorates of cultural affairs – to accompany the communities in the maintenance and restoration of historical monuments; the restoration of EUR 13 million from the appropriations of the research and higher education mission to meet France's commitments on the ITER project. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I will conclude my remarks by referring to a technical subject at first glance but with the serious budgetary consequences: emission premiums. As a result of lower rates, the issuance of similar Treasury bonds results in an explosion in premiums, reaching a level of EUR 17 billion. This can be used to curb the apparent rise in French public debt, since under the Maastricht rules the debt is valued at the value of the final repayment. In view of the amounts involved, minister, how can we remedy Parliament's almost total lack of information to assess such practices?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u14	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u15	The least we can say is that not much fits me into this text, both in form and substance. As my colleague Mr Pupponi has just said, the conditions under which it was presented, particularly with regard to deadlines, pose a problem of democracy and respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u16	For a change!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u17	You have largely trampled on parliamentary work – and I don't think I'm the only one – because in addition to systematically ignoring our amendments, you don't even give us time to table them anymore. How can we think that twenty-four hours are enough to analyze a 150-page text, to identify its weaknesses, to think about useful changes and then to table amendments that have been drafted in a reasoned way? Who would dare say that it is normal for us to have had to table our amendments before the debate could have taken place in committee? That's what happened. So what is the point of these discussions if they do not allow us to move forward, to build together, to modify, to refine our proposals, or to influence our respective positions, Minister? What is the use of all these hours spent decorating your texts if they are without consequence, if it is in reality only a staging of democracy, a facade? You don't even pretend to let us work properly anymore. Even members of the majority complain that they cannot be heard. You are imposing amendments that you are trying to pass at the last minute. You are making Parliament look back on those whose fate you did not like. This was true during the review of the PLFR and the PLF – we are witnessing this. The conditions under which this PLFR was presented to our assembly should by itself have been a red line. Colleagues, whether you are from the majority or not, I say to you: let's stop making us walk on it. We are supposed to make the law and vote on the budget – it is to carry out these missions that we have been elected – and not be the carpet of the Government. These shameful methods are also at the service of a shameful policy. They allow you to cancel payment appropriations for more than EUR 1 billion, for sometimes obscure reasons, and not only because we lack time to understand them. I will cite just one example: when I pointed out to you that you had withdrawn EUR 19 million from the risk prevention programme – which is unfortunately topical – you said that this figure corresponded to the amount, not consumed, originally intended to settle the dispute concerning the Le Signal building. This amount actually amounted to only 7 million. You haven't informed us about the remaining 12 million. We know that this example is a good example of the lack of readability of this budget as a whole. However, the amounts withdrawn would have been useful for each of the missions concerned, as we have already pointed out at length. The 2019 Finance Act did not already provide sufficient funding for the state and public services to function properly. The movement of the yellow vests, like the mobilizations that followed it, showed this amply. The strike scheduled for 5 December, I hope, will prove that too. Your budgets follow one another and do not respond – everyone knows – to the social emergency or to the ecological emergency. Your numerical alignments are so low on the road that a year ago, you were forced to stage, at the last moment, the introduction of "yellow vests" measures. Not only were they insufficient, but you also want to finance them a year later by discreetly withdrawing funds from many missions just as necessary for the angry people. These cancellations of credits are therefore all the more absurd, as I think and hope you will probably have to resort in December to a last-minute emergency plan, a new PLFR in a way, as you did last year to respond to the social anger expressed by the yellow vest movement. Because you have to see it: the hospital staff cracks, the national education staff cracks, the students crack, the firefighters crack, the country cracks. Some French people, unfortunately, even go so far as to commit suicide in their workplace. We must rebuild without further delay a united, protective and redistributive State. Our emergency workers, our firefighters, our police officers are charred by fatigue. Let us create massive posts so that our compatriots are treated with dignity when their health is lacking. All places that welcome the French – our barracks, our police stations or our hospitals – must be renovated. Our country is rich enough to eradicate poverty by adopting a "zero homeless" plan designed to make a reality of what was only the promise of a candidate. It is also capable of eradicating precariousness in the French research sector, where 13,000 individual contractors work in unworthy conditions. You can find these proposals in the counter-budget drawn up by the La France group to respond to the emergency situation we are experiencing. I very sincerely hope that the French who will mobilize from 5 December onwards will be able to draw on them for their demands, even beyond their refusal of your pension bill, which provides nothing but the breakdown of the system by distribution. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Colleagues, you should take comparable measures. Otherwise, it may be the strikers who will rip them off from you. In this hypothesis, which I hope to see realized, we will meet again at the end of December to examine a new PLFR, which is intended this time to respond to the social movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u18	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u19	As it was adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, the text of the draft amending finance law for 2019 is substantially the same as that passed last week. However, our fellow senators had managed to reduce some of the credit cancellations, particularly for the Student Life program, before the CMP reconsidered that decision. Of course, 35 million euros was probably too much at a time when the news reminds us of the great precariousness and distress faced by our students... So we need to decide on a small PLFR, which you assume as such and which, in your opinion, reflects the sound management that has been yours this year. However, if we reason with your reading grid, the deficit in the budget you are presenting exceeds the sacrosanct 3% of GDP limit. You therefore decide to violate your own rules, to abandon the great principles written in the marble of the European treaties, which we have repeatedly explained that they have no economic or social justification and that they should be overcome. How do I explain such a volt-face? What priority may have prompted you to free yourself from the rules that you had put forward at this point? There are many emergencies. Do you increase the deficit to meet the ecological challenge, which requires an additional 40 billion euros – and at least 10 to 20 billion euros – per year in the ecological transition? Is it a matter, as my colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne mentioned last week, of dealing with the social crisis that is going through our country and leads 9 million of our fellow citizens to live below the poverty line – of which 400,000 more for two years, I remind you, because of your policy? No. To each of our proposals on these subjects, you have always opposed the accounting argument by invoking the different budgetary standards – the 3% rule, the "zero value" and "zero volume" standards, etc. – and the risk of an excessive deficit procedure. Today, you are free from the constraints that you had set up as a totem not to meet the needs that I mentioned, but to finance the inefficiency CICE and the reductions in employer contributions promised by candidate Macron, measures that, I would remind you, cost almost 40 billion euros to the public accounts in 2019, aggravating the deficit by 0.9 points. It is true that the CICE has already cost almost 80 billion euros since 2013. For what results? The 2019 budget highlights your priorities. The deficit would therefore prevent us from taking measures to promote ecology or the eradication of poverty, which we call for. On the other hand, if it is to give several tens of billions of euros to the big multinationals, to the luxury industry, to Bernard Arnault, to Carrefour – which has collected 755 million euros and eliminated nearly 3000 jobs – there is no problem! So we can see that debt, the deficit, is just an excuse for your government. Now, Minister, it would be time to go to the end of the logic by taking the next step: to admit that it is possible, and necessary, to aggravate France's deficit, at least temporarily, in order to promote social progress and respond to the ecological emergency. Fully finance the green transition, as we propose, with a €100 billion fund by borrowing at negative rates from the ECB to invest and meet our needs. Finance all the major challenges that arise. Fund a real pension reform. Do not hesitate to tax capital rather than labour. This amending finance bill is not up to date. Increasing the deficit should serve the general interest rather than the particular interests of certain major groups. If you decide to do so, we'll be with you tomorrow to suggest ways to reform and invest in the country. If not, and as long as the public deficit will be used to finance new gifts to the big groups, the richest, the "primières de cordée", you will find us again and again on your way to oppose this policy, as we will do during the vote of this PLFR but also on 5 December with all the trade union organisations, or alongside the hospital staff who demand a real emergency plan that can meet its expectations. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] By the way, the emergency plan proposed by the Government plans to take over 10 billion euros out of the 30 billion total hospital debt. But why not go to the end of this logic by resuming the debt to the tune of 30 billion? This is possible at the moment, thanks in particular to loans at negative rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u20	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u21	Everything comes to the point of waiting: it is not so common to see a CMP reach an agreement, let alone when it comes to our public finances. I would therefore like to begin by commending the wisdom of our honourable senators, who have been able to leave political positions to show a sense of dialogue and compromise. They have thus recognized the virtues of this amending finance bill, and in particular three of them. The first is his brevity. In line with the principles of sound budgetary management outside the crisis period, this PLFR, consisting of a dozen articles, is nothing more than what it should be: a short and essentially technical end-of-management budget text. I would like to commend the Government's willingness not to make it a vehicle for further tax measures. It thus leaves to the original finance law for 2020 all its importance and scope. Respect for parliamentary authorization is the second implicit virtue of this amending finance bill since, for the second consecutive year, the Government has chosen not to resort to advance decrees. Compliance with a 3 % reserve rate on non-Title 2 appropriations also made it possible, on the one hand, to empower programme managers and, on the other hand, to give the precautionary reserve its primary meaning: to deal with management hazards. Only the management of the credits of the "School Education" mission seems to escape this logic somewhat. The problem, known and identified, is in the process of resorption; I also hope, in my capacity as Special Rapporteur of the Mission, that no additional appropriations will be necessary to ensure the salaries of teachers for the month of December next year at the end of management. Finally, this amending finance bill is consistent with the priorities that the Government, with our majority, has set for our country: to protect our fellow citizens, to make work pay and to combat destinies. The measures taken at the end of the management process reflect this. To protect our poorest citizens, the PLFR provides for, for example, the sustainability of 6000 winter reinforcements and the increase of shelter for vulnerable people. In order to enhance recovery or retention, last year we voted for an increase in the activity premium. The promotion and upgrading of this adapted and efficient benefit has considerably increased the number of its beneficiaries and, above all, its recourse rate; hence the extension of EUR 800 million to finance it. Finally, because our priority is to combat the inequalities of destiny, the PLFR sanctuates the funds allocated to the first level of school education. It also increases, by almost 50 million euros – in addition to the 95 million already committed – the resources granted to the CROUS – regional centres for academic and academic works. Therefore, if we were to share a criticism of the opposition on this amending finance bill, I would highlight the very short time frame for first reading in the House. Nevertheless, the conciseness of the text made it possible to overcome this difficulty. And because the seriousness of a government's budget always allows us to establish a climate conducive to dialogue and compromises, Members of Parliament and Senators have been able to easily agree, in the Joint Joint Committee, to vote on the text presented to us today, while returning to the margin, in relation to the original amending finance bill, on cancellations of appropriations within the mission "Research and higher education" and the "Heritage" programme. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] After voting, at the end of 2018, for a budget for 2019 marked by sincerity, after having also voted for a reserve rate intended to empower managers, the Republic on the move group here expresses, by my voice, its satisfaction at the seriousness with which the budget for 2019 was implemented. This seriousness enables us to give, in confidence, a favourable opinion to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u22	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u23	First of all, let me return to the timetable for our consideration of this text. We had only three hours to get to know you before we heard you, minister, and barely a day to table amendments before it was discussed in committee. We even had to table the amendments for the sitting before the committee was examined! In short, we had to work on this text as soon as possible, while at the same time we had to study the PLF for 2020 in committee and in session. We are able to work on time, minister, but we do not have the gift of ubiquity. Presenting us with a tight PLFR can neither exempt you from respecting Parliament nor, in any way, justify a step-by-step examination. I therefore sincerely hope that this is the last time we will have to work under such conditions. So yes, Minister, like everyone in this House, I welcome the absence of tax measures in this PLFR, and share the satisfaction you expressed a few moments ago. I regret, however, that the deadlines have forced us to examine certain measures more than questionable at all speed. No doubt you have used these deadlines to try to pass unacceptable measures. This is proof of the scandalous reduction of EUR 25 million in funds allocated to heritage, which even the Minister of Culture seemed to discover when our colleague Gilles Carrez denounced it. I am pleased that we have been able to re-establish these appropriations in the Joint Joint Committee, but this example illustrates the lack of transparency of this PLFR. With regard to missions, cancellations of appropriations are more important this year than previous ones, while the level of openings remains stable. The initial finance bill therefore allocates a certain level of appropriations for the various missions, and you are even proud to show, for some of them – such as the "Culture" mission – increasing appropriations. But, in the end, you will enjoy a PLFR discussed at the speed of lightning to plan these credits. You are therefore not really sincere in your forecasts, since often the appropriations spent do not correspond to the appropriations voted. Let me turn to the tax revenues related to corporate tax and income tax. While the Government welcomes the reduction of French taxes, at the same time the revenue generated by the taxes I have just mentioned is increasing considerably. There is a very strong contradiction here. You can take advantage of the good tax returns – including the phenomenal jackpot that the source levy represents – to give up reducing spending in a structural way. You have criticized me, Minister, for relying only on figures, in particular Excel tables, and for not taking enough account of the lives of the French. But do you believe, precisely, that these same French people are happy to see that the deficit is decreasing thanks to the increase in their taxes? I just want to remind you that net tax revenues, therefore taxes, increase by €5.7 billion between the BIA for 2019 and this PLFR. Do you think that the French thank you when you owe the country more and more, while today's loans are the taxes of tomorrow? Whether we look at the figures or the hearts of the French, the result is the same: your budget is disappointing, and even alarming on some points. Generally speaking, your PLFR reflects your lack of courage and efforts to control public accounts. You are not making any effort to reduce spending; Worse, you go back on your commitments and reduce the savings you announced by half a billion euros. You are not making any efforts to reduce the debt, which, by reaching 98.9% of GDP, makes France one of the five countries of the European Union that continue to be in debt. Nor are you making any structural adjustment efforts, since the balance path in this area is still a little further away from that provided for by the now obsolete law on public finance programming. You are not far from triggering the correction mechanism provided for in Article 23 of the Organic Law of 2012,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u24	Let's not exaggerate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u25	...and that doesn't seem to worry you. Beyond a certain lack of effort, all this reflects your inability to stick to the commitments you made yourself. You are pleased to have kept the expenditure and deficit targets set out in the original finance law, despite the emergency measures voted to respond to the yellow vest crisis, but you are not involved in this outcome. In fact, you are being carried by the European wind of negative rates, putting you back into the economic situation rather than taking the lead and proposing real measures to control the budget. But no conjuncture is eternal, minister, and sooner or later, it is the French who will have to pay for your timid and tempting policy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you will have understood, the Republican Group will therefore again vote against this PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u26	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u27	"What makes one friend sure of the other is the knowledge he has of his integrity: the respondents he has of it are his good nature, faith and consistency. This sentence, often quoted, is from La Boétie. In my view, it can illustrate the regularity that led the Government in drawing up the PLFR, and the support that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has given it, according to which a budgetary collective restricted to the end-of-year measures alone has the merit of meeting its original vocation in practice. This PLFR reflects the voluntarism of the Government, which, through its action on expenditure, confirms that the standard of the State's pilotable expenditure will be less than EUR 1 billion. With 5.7 billion tax revenues and 1.9 billion non-tax revenues, this PLFR also reflects the measures taken by the Government to finance the economic and social emergency: the introduction of a digital business tax and the change in the downward trajectory of the IS. Finally, the macroeconomic outlook seems realistic, despite the volatility of the economic situation for all euro area countries. I would like to commend the ability of parliamentarians, members of Parliament and senators, to reach an agreement in the CMP: this will allow us to finally adopt the text today. This draft law on amending finance confirms the government's willingness to put this mode of operation on a long-term basis, both in form and in substance: the absence of an advance decree, for the second time in thirty years, is a sign of this. The PLF, which we have just completed at first reading, and this PLFR both reflect the commitments made by the President of the Republic to the French. One example is the strengthening of the sovereign powers. Additional appropriations have been made available for the Security Mission, in order to respond to the urgency of our law enforcement, but also, and the MODEM Group welcomes it, for the Defence Mission. The end-of-year celebrations are approaching and, for our OPEX soldiers, they will be far away from here. This allows me to bounce back on the year that ends. In fact, 2019 has been difficult for many of our citizens. And, it is not in vain to recall, parliamentary debates cannot remain in a state of discord with the daily reality of the French. While an important social movement is expected, I recall that this text provides direct answers to the upheavals that our country is going through. I therefore welcome the opening of €839 million for the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission and €627 million for the Cohesion of the Territories Mission. More inclusiveness and tight hands: this is how we must respond to those who have been marginalized since many quinquennats and by many governments. Finally, the MODEM Group welcomes the measures relating to the programme for investment in the future. This mobilization in the face of the industrial challenges of tomorrow makes it possible to look more serenely at progress on topics for which our group has been particularly committed, such as batteries. In concrete terms, however, we must reconcile our fellow citizens with the political decision by explaining to them the reasons for our budgetary choices. Of course, there are imperatives, contingencies, forecasts to be revised and sometimes results less than expected. But the Government must continue its efforts for environmental transition, education and higher education, investment and innovation. The French need consultation and pedagogy. Beyond accounting logic alone, budgetary measures must be a reflection of our collective commitment to serve our country, for our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general, also applauds]] Minister, keep listening to the French and the territories, as you have done so far, and you will find in the MODEM Group an ally to carry out this indispensable pedagogy work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u28	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u29	On this amending finance bill, the CMP has therefore reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u30	That's not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u31	From your point of view, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u32	It saves time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u33	Of course, but I am not sure that the French will find their account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u34	Time is money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u35	I shall refer again, as I did at first reading, to the level of cancellations of appropriations at the end of management. During the autumn period, the initial finance bill for year n + 1 and the amending finance bill are being considered. In the original finance bill, you may be tempted to open up a number of appropriations which, the following year, are closed by cancellations. There has been no advance order-in-council, Mr. Minister. I agree, and congratulate him even on this point, but at the end of the day, the amount of the cancellations of appropriations, as provided for in this text, is one of the highest ever observed. In this respect, I invite you to read page 26 of the rapporteur-general's report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u36	[[Smile]] Excellent report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u37	Excellent report, indeed: it gives a historical vision and depth on the amount of cancellations of credits observed over the years. So, even if we ignore the savings in finding that interest rates are lower than expected last year, the amount of cancellations remains at EUR 2.7 billion. I come back to the example, given at first reading, of higher education and research – you did not appreciate that I underlined the cancellation of EUR 323 million on this mission. Our fellow senators from the Socialist and Republican group have managed to have an amendment voted in order to restore 35 million euros of credits for the benefit of student life – this at a time when students are mobilizing to denounce the precariousness of some of them. This provision was breached by the Joint Joint Committee. I will not confront you, Mr rapporteur-general, with reading the report of his proceedings, where it can be said that some colleagues have wondered what the students can do with 35 million euros by the end of the year... Well, yes, they could do a lot of things about it. Refusing to cancel that amount would be tantamount to giving them a signal. Everyone agrees to fight against insecurity, but in this area, rather than just speaking, we must make commitments, including budgetary commitments. However, during this CMP, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general, you accepted the Senate's proposal to increase the appropriations allocated to the Heritage programme; All right, but you refused to reinstate 35 million euros for student life financing. You will therefore understand, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that we cannot accept the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee. In a way, you have put culture, heritage and student life in competition. It's a bad choice. Refusing to cancel these EUR 35 million would not have worsened the budget deficit: the amount is certainly significant in itself, but too small to have a significant impact on the deficit. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, we will vote against the text. We bitterly regret that you did not take into account the amendment voted in the Senate, even though, I repeat, the students are mobilizing to properly denounce the precarious nature of some of them. You are thus sending a very bad political and social signal to the country's youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u38	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u39	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u40	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u41	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u42	The next item is the discussion, on a new reading, of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020 (No. 2416, 2436).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u43	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u44	It is customary, in a new reading, not to repeat a presentation of the major measures of a text already discussed for several days at first reading. This new reading, however, is of a special nature. We had – you had – the opportunity to say the difficulties that the public hospital is going through, and the mobilization on 14 November showed the exhaustion, if not the anger, of the caregivers as well as the non-carers. The President of the Republic said: we must hear the need expressed by hospital staff in order to accompany their efforts and continue the transformation they have undertaken. For my part, I had, from the first reading, referred to the work that we had undertaken in parallel with the tabling of the Social Security Financing Bill – PLFSS – for 2020 in order to respond to this emergency. This work, presented last week, includes a series of measures to invest in the hospital and to support the transformation initiated by the "My Health 2022" plan. The goal is to restore flexibility and flexibility to improve the daily lives of hospital staff and accelerate the transformation of our health care system. These measures are structured around three main axes. The first is to restore the attractiveness of the trades and to retain caregivers. The first is to better recognize staff by accompanying early careers in order to restore the capacity of hospitals to recruit. It is then a question of concentrating the effort on the revalorisation of the professions in tension, whether this tension has territorial causes – as in Paris and in the small crown where a premium of 800 euros will be awarded to hospital staff – or sectoral reasons as in the case of the profession of caregiver. Those who work in the services that care for the elderly will receive the Gerontological Care Assistant premium. In addition, health-care workers will be able to access category B of the public service at the end of their career, thanks to a new grade. Finally, it is a question of rewarding investment and collective commitment by creating an interest premium distributed by managers, so that they can reward teams committed to quality of service and transformation projects on the ground. All these measures will be financed by an additional effort of EUR 300 million on the national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – in 2020, and EUR 1.5 billion by the end of the quinquennium. At the request of Brigitte Bourguignon, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I presented the increase in the expenditure target to the committee. An amendment to that effect could be tabled before the committee, so that we can discuss it in full clarity and sincerity. Of course I would have preferred to be able to go faster, but we were not ready in the debates at first reading, and you know how sensitive these are. The second focus of these measures is to restore the dialogue and flexibility of management in the daily life of the hospital. The organisation of the public hospital has undergone major changes, which have sometimes given the teams the feeling of a departure from decision-making and a loss of meaning. The transformation undertaken with the plan "my health 2022" aims to strengthen the dialogue and sense of the collective within hospitals. As a result, health care staff will be better integrated into hospital governance, and community management will be strengthened and enhanced. Measures to simplify the day-to-day operation will also be foreseen. I am thinking in particular of recruitment formalities or decentralised cooperation protocols between professionals within an institution. Finally, measures will be taken to combat the medical interim which has developed for several years in conditions that have become unbearable for the teams responsible for ensuring the continuity of the operation of the hospital. In order not to waste time, we have tabled an amendment from this PLFSS to arm the public accountants by giving them the means to genuinely enforce the necessary remuneration framework for acting. Third axis: to reinvest the public hospital by giving it new means and visibility over time. Hospital rates will increase by a minimum of 0.2% until the end of the quinquennium. I recall that the first exceptional positive campaign in 2019 ended ten years of successive declines. Everyday investment will be a priority. The aim is to allow hospitals to purchase the necessary equipment for the daily work of caregivers. In 2020, EUR 150 million will be directed towards current investment rather than to new major real estate projects, in order to meet the current strong need. This effort will be continued in 2021 and 2022. From 2020 onwards, EUR 10 billion of debts will be recovered from hospitals in three years, in order to reduce the costs of institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u45	Why not 30?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u46	This break-up decision will allow hospitals to reduce their deficits and quickly regain the means to invest and modernize. The topicality and sensitivity of the issue of hospital funding have crystallized much of our discussions. I understand this and, in a way, I am pleased to see how the national treasure of the public hospital raises the vigilance of all parliamentarians. Before we resume our discussions, I would like to point out that this PLFSS contains measures that we can be proud of if we attach importance to our entire social protection system, its modernisation and its universalization. Building the social protection of the 21st century, I repeat today before you, is creating new rights to deal with new risks. From this point of view, family leave – which is a key measure of the text – has been usefully improved in its design by parliamentary work, and it will still be improved by the amendments tabled in new reading. The extension of the system of custody, adopted at first reading on the basis of a parliamentary initiative, also goes in this direction. Compensation for pesticide victims was also improved at first reading. This is an extremely important step in addressing the new health risks facing us in the 20th century, against which the 21st century will have to protect us. I also welcome the many amendments that will help to improve access to care. Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, will support an amendment aimed at experimenting with the use of therapeutic cannabis in the treatment of certain diseases. Another amendment aims to provide early access to innovative medical devices, similar to what exists for medicines. A number of provisions relate to access to child care. Measures, worked with Mr Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State, aim to strengthen the capacity of the IMPs – centres for maternal and child protection. The Government's initial measure to establish a health check on entry to social assistance for children should be extended to all children, including those under the legal protection of young people. Access to innovative acts will be facilitated through a renovation of the procedure for listing medical acts in the nomenclature, in order to facilitate their dissemination and, above all, their reimbursement to insured persons. Finally, in the wake of a demonstration against violence against women, which reminded us, if necessary, of the fact that women's rights still remain an unthinkable part of our public policies, including in the area of social protection, I would like to remind you that the PLFSS is also a vehicle for responding to this unthinking. I am thinking in particular of single-parent families and the scandal of unpaid maintenance – often to women who, not without reason, feel forgotten by solidarity. It was time to put an end to a system that made neglect one another's distress. We are proud to have created, with Christelle Dubos, Secretary of State, a mechanism that effectively secures single-parent families. The PLFSS is a political object; It reveals the ambition of the Government and national representation for the country's social protection system. This year, it will have been marked by a debate on the state of the public hospital. We are responding with the necessary ambition and urgency. We believe in the dedication of his staff and the promise of the public hospital: to be with those who suffer and their loved ones, in moments of fragility, sometimes of anguish, in very special moments of life where one is proud and reassured to be French. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But we do not stop at the hospital, because it is our entire social protection system that we must continue to transform. With this PLFSS, we give ourselves the means of the future and of maintaining a system of social protection and rights that is the pride of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u47	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u48	We are starting the new reading of the bill on the financing of social security for 2020 under specific conditions, let us admit. The text under consideration is, in fact, the one adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, after the Senate interrupted its own reading under conditions that could be described as questionable, thus depriving itself of discussing and enriching a text whose measures are nevertheless important for the French. During this new reading, we must include in the law the exceptional measures announced last week in favour of the hospital. These results in an increase of 0.15 percentage points – from 2.3% to 2.45% – in ONDAM for 2020. This increase, which represents an additional EUR 300 million, will bring the hospital ONDAM from 2.1% to 2.4%. As the minister has already presented these measures in detail, I will not go back to them. Instead, I will focus on the revenue side, which will still be part of our debate. We shall deliver an opinion against all the amendments proposing, in Article 3, the deletion of the provisions for non-compensation of economic and social emergency measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u49	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u50	We discussed it at length at first reading. Our discussions this autumn underline the need for a forthcoming debate on the future of relations between the State and social security. It will probably take place as part of the bill that we will be introducing next spring, along with the public finance programming bill. In Article 7, we will insist on an obligation: companies will have to have an interest agreement in order to benefit from the exemption linked to the exceptional premium, known as the Macron bonus. This measure is consistent with government policy, and with the law of 22 May 2019 on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law. Mr Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance, had defended before you this text aimed at ensuring a better distribution between capital and labour, a subject which we will have the opportunity to discuss again. We will ensure that we do not create new social niches. The Government will therefore be opposed to an amendment proposing a further expansion of the scheme provided for under the Act of 27 May 2009 for the economic development of the overseas departments – LODEOM. We will remain with the measures announced by the President of the Republic during his visit to La Réunion. I come to the financial balance of this text, which the measures on the hospital do not fundamentally call into question. Some argue that the announced measures would not be funded. In fact, we have not planned to change the revenue allocated to social security for the year 2020. We are taking on this new expenditure, which will reach EUR 3 billion over three years, without creating any additional taxes. They must provide adequate working conditions for caregivers. Whether it is hospital fees, expenditure or investment, they will provide visibility over the duration of which no health care actor has so far benefited. These additional expenditures will be integrated into the public finance trajectory presented in the future public finance programming bill in the first half of 2020. We did well to have a deadline next spring, not this autumn. This path will clarify the Government's directions for public revenue and expenditure over the next few years, taking into account Brexit and the pension reform under negotiation with the social partners. A word, in conclusion, about the resumption of hospital debt, on which the Assembly will be called upon to take a decision on a bill that will be before it at the beginning of next year. Hospital debt relief of 10 billion euros in three years...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u51	Why not 30?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u52	... will allow hospitals to take advantage of new room for manoeuvre, reduce their deficit and invest in the future. At the end of the period, their burden will have been reduced from EUR 800 million to EUR 1 billion per year, depending on the amount of debt recovered and the related interest rates, which will depend on the financial market situation. This recovery will not translate, contrary to what I have read here or there, into an increase in public debt since hospital debt is already accounted for in it. We will work with the institutions to ensure that the additional room for manoeuvre does not contribute to debt recovery, but rather to accelerate the transformation of the public hospital as part of the "my health 2022" plan, to better support caregivers and to support investments in each of the hospitals that have engaged in a contractual approach with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. We take on these budgetary choices. While our pace of fiscal adjustment is different from the one envisaged in 2017, it takes into account both the global economic slowdown, the various social crises in our country and our priorities. The text is also a continuation of the policy we have been pursuing over the past two years to lower taxes, support the purchasing power of the French and transform our care system. It is a responsible text, consistent with our objectives in the areas of public finances, social accounting and the transformation of public action. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let us not forget this reality: only controlled social accounts, within the framework of assured financial sustainability, will allow us to prepare for the future and preserve our social model for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u53	Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u54	The new reading of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020 is a unique exercise compared to previous years. You will allow me, as rapporteur-general, to insist on this. Compared to the text we voted on at first reading only a few weeks ago, the text we are considering today is, if I am allowed to be inspired by Verlaine, neither quite the same nor quite another. Not quite the same in relation to the first reading, first, because everyone understood that the level of expenditure initially presented for the disease branch had to change seriously in order to respond to a deep crisis. The Government has therefore chosen, in an unprecedented way, to table an amendment that substantially alters the national target of health insurance expenditure for 2020. Above all, it is a matter of meeting the expectations of hospital professionals, who have been heavily mobilized for several months. They express a malaise whose origin dates back several years. Yesterday's mistakes are being remedied today, and for that to happen, we must begin by reviewing in depth the functioning of our entire health care system. It is precisely the ambition displayed by the Government and the majority since the beginning of the legislature, the ambition that led the law of 24 July 2019 on the organization and transformation of the health system, known as the "My Health 2022" law. If you will allow me a medical metaphor, I will say that this law is curative treatment, basic treatment, to treat the ills of the hospital, and that the measures announced recently are the immediate symptomatic treatment, to respond to the acute crisis of the hospital system, until the law is fully effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u55	There are treatments that don't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u56	Thus ONDAM will increase thanks to an amendment which we enthusiastically adopted last week in committee. The hospital ONDAM, increased by some 300 million euros, will be increased to a level equivalent to that of the city ONDAM. In addition to these measures adopted in the framework of the Social Security Financing Bill, all the attractive measures announced by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health last week must be added, first and foremost the recovery of €10 billion in hospital debt of €30 billion. Recapture €10 billion of hospital debt is to make financial room for manoeuvre in the hospital; It is to give it oxygen and to restore its ability to invest, to modernize, to regain its attractiveness and to improve the value of careers. I will not mention all the measures envisaged today, but I note that the merger of the first four levels of the hospital practitioners' grid satisfies an old demand of the unions. The exclusive public service commitment bonus for health professionals and early-careers, as well as the cooperation premium of around 300 euros per month, for people engaged in institutional transformation projects, which could affect 600,000 caregivers, are also important measures. Obviously, all these measures will allow the hospital to find colours. Personally, I welcome announcements that tend to involve health professionals more in hospital governance. An amendment submitted by the Government in open session should make it possible to fight effectively against medical acting when it is abusive. When we discussed this issue in 2012 and 2013, it was clearly difficult to include such measures in the law. I am pleased that there is now a political will to succeed. In view of the Senate's rejection of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2020, which was a sacrifice by our fellow senators who had tabled many amendments, the National Assembly's Social Affairs Committee wished to take some of them back in its own right in a new reading. I am thinking, for example, of the amendment tabled by our colleague Patricia Schillinger, aimed at extending to the beneficiaries of the additional disability allowance the personalised information and support scheme for the opening of rights to complementary health care. I am still thinking of Mrs Catherine Déroche, rapporteur of the Senate Committee on Social Affairs for health insurance, who proposes to extend the obligation to inform the ANSM, the national agency for the safety of medicinal products and health products, on stock breaks. There is also the amendment by Mrs Véronique Guillotin which exempts ESATs, establishments and services of help through work, the condition of paying a premium of interest prior to the social and tax exemption from the exceptional purchasing power premium, or the proposal by my counterpart, rapporteur-general of the Social Affairs Committee of the Senate, Jean-Marie Vanlerenberghe, to anticipate the exemption from social levies on the "human aid" component of the disability compensation benefit – PCH – on 1 January 2019. This constructive approach will enable us to make useful progress from this new reading and to focus on the essentials for this last straight line of the parliamentary shuttle. Not "completely the same", this text is not meant to become "totally another". As we begin this new reading, which is more from the text that we adopted a few weeks ago, you will not be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that the committee believes that the bill is intended to retain its emblematic measures, be it the sixty-four articles originally contained in the Government's text or the thirty articles that we have added to it. Many of them would probably have been able to obtain the approval of the senators, who confirmed it to us on a joint joint committee. The wine-based premix tax, which we will have to debate, was adopted by the upper house after a debate that was not won in advance. This debate was constructive and its outcome demonstrated the sense of responsibility of senators. They have shown an equally constructive approach to testing medical cannabis or revenue measures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will not mention the provisions that senators intended to delete and that were not intended to be adopted by the majority group in the Senate. Some of them may be discussed during our session tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u57	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u58	On this international day to combat violence against women, how can we not call again for the awareness and mobilization of society as a whole? Many testimonies show us the extent, severity and persistence of these violences, which structure social relations. These mental, physical, and sexual violence are unbearable. They often lead to death. I have in mind, as I speak to you, too many faces of women with damaged dreams and broken lives, seeking help. Today we must make a real civilizational leap. I now turn to the bill to finance social security for 2020. I still hear the comments of the representatives of the majority welcoming this text and presenting it as "a law of commitment", "a bill of responsibility and promise". It is not just you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that this text has rejoiced. It's always a catch, but it's still very little. We all knew that this PLFSS would take a long time, despite some remarkable decisions. We all knew that he would not stand the sea in front of the powerful social hospital movement installed in the country for months. We knew that he was not able to respond to issues, challenges, needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u60	We have been many to say and perhaps a little more to think that this text should be substantially corrected and that, for that, we would probably have to see each other again, as was the case last year, despite the same warnings, without they being actually heard. The social security budget we examined at first reading was not realistic, and it was probably not sincere. However, it has been adopted as it is, without barging: what can happen! [[Boris Vallaud applauds]] The Government tells us that we have been short of time; He made new announcements, out of the hat. I do not want to argue about the timetable, but this sequence again illustrates the weakening of a Parliament that is too often disrespected. This is what led the Senate to reject the PLFSS for 2020: it refused to play the role of potash in a masquerade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u61	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u62	Was it not, in fact, a matter of sacrificing the parliamentary calendar to political tactics to weaken the reach of the hospitable social movement and the big day of action on 14 November? [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Over the past two and a half years, many oppositions to Government policy have emerged, and many demands have emerged. For the past two and a half years, the Government has consistently tried not to give up an inch of land, not to grant those claims, not to give any reason to its interlocutors – in any case, the concession had to be as broad as possible. Every time he pretended, he cheated, he unpacked. The problem is that it doesn't work and that's obvious. Last year, for example, the Government took emergency measures to increase purchasing power, but without actually increasing it. He has never denied his willingness to circumvent wages and weaken the resources of social security. And this year, we're inventing emergency measures to save the hospital, without really saving the hospital! First step: the raising of ONDAM. Nothing was possible without this recovery, but ONDAM actually increased from 2.5 per cent last year to 2.45 per cent this year. You had programmed EUR 1 billion to reduce hospital health expenditure; You're giving up 300 million: I'm laying 10 and I'm holding up 3, there's 700 million downs left. The diagnosis is simple: the public hospital is not able to absorb this new shock. We must not just do a little more than if it were less: we must do more, all of a sudden. It is necessary to increase the ONDAM to at least 4.5%, not just to endorse the natural increase in health spending, but also to make up for repeated screw tricks for so many years. Second step: the resumption of part of the debt. The cost savings will not be enough to fill the drop I have just mentioned. However, this recovery is necessary. There is a need to put an end to the hypocrisy of a system in which the community produces debt and places it on institutions, with indecent financial burdens. All of this calls for a number of comments. First of all, we must not take over one third of the debt, but we must take it back entirely. We are also wondering how you will choose what should be taken up and what cannot. In fact, hospitals have been asked to over-finance the investment in their operating budgets, and to create room for care. It's an incoherent system, the results of which are known. Secondly, the recovery of hospital debt must not be accompanied by austere mechanisms such as those of COPERMO, the interdepartmental committee on the performance and modernization of the supply of hospital care, which requires, in return for its assistance, restrictions and removals of beds and staff. Finally, the recovery of hospital debt must not put an end to investment, because investment is necessary. It is not enough to take over one third of the debt, it is necessary to say how to put an end to a system in which hospitals are obliged to manufacture it. It is necessary to return to zero-rate social security loans for the financing of heavy investments. Third measure: the distribution of premiums. Premiums for what? Work bonuses! Wages disguised, but without visibility on sustainability and without related rights. Premiums considered modest. Premiums for each other and not for the other. You meet the expectations for recognition of work, trades and the tenability of tasks, and the problem of attractiveness of hospitals, by the formula: "There won't be any for everyone! » This will obviously lead to a further circumvention of wages. What is the meaning of such an approach if not another attempt at social division? The so-called unprecedented plan that you are presenting announces above all the following plan. It's the fourth in three years, because you don't choose to answer really, or rather because you choose not to answer really. According to what I have observed, this plan did not bring social mobilization back; Instead, he stirred up anger and caused disappointment. It's not serious to stick to it. However, this is a first victory for the hospital social movement, a first recognition of the acute crisis situation in the public hospital, which would not have taken place without the long-term mobilization of health personnel, emergency personnel, psychiatry and all hospital services. The battles are worth fighting! How to adhere to this scenario, not a "of ouf" scenario, but a "off" scenario! ", a scenario of relief, which aims to make renunciation? For us, the story is not over. In the Government announcements, what are the objectives in terms of job creation? What's the hiring plan for the public hospital? What training plan do health professionals need? The first demand of the staff is to have colleagues: to be numerous enough to practice care, to be able to give what is expected of them and of them. In the advertisements, what about the closures of beds, whose number rose to 18,000 in six years, between 2010 and 2016? It is also this evolution that leads to the congestion of emergencies and the deterioration of care. This does not mean that there is nothing to review in the organization of care. It would also be necessary to take stock of local hospital groups – GHT –, of contracts to improve the quality and efficiency of care – CAQES – or of the outpatient shift. It should also be said what is intended to be done with regard to the sale of public establishments to the private profit-making sector. The level of public service for autonomy should also be raised. This new text, which is new only from the late submission of a government amendment to ONDAM, is not much more realistic than the first. And if we say all this, it is not to play the M. or M. Plus, because we would be complacent in the face of the eternal unsatisfied, or because of an opposition in principle: we would like to finally be able to vote for a satisfactory social security budget, which is launching a new dynamic, commensurate with the importance of health in the eyes of the French and French, of which it is the first concern. If we say all this, it is because the measures expected are financial. But the Government has chosen to remain locked in its logic of underfunding social security, massive exemptions, severe diet of the public service. He chose to do without the recipes we need. He chose, as a symbol, not to compensate for the €2.8 billion exemption from social contributions. The simple renunciation of this measure would already bring much. I am aware, in defending this motion, of asking for a hand to be returned to the Government, since if it were to be adopted, it would proceed by order. But to the point where we're at... The hand, alas, the Government already has it. On the other hand, if the motion is adopted, the message will be clear: despite the new announcements, its proposal does not hold, it is not enough. [[Smile]] [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] On November 25, where "every tree takes root," you should change your plan, Minister. You may be bet that "at Sainte-Catherine, the sardines turn the china", but don't forget the continuation of the proverb: "at Saint-Blaise, they reappear". Be sure they won't wait till then! In the first version, you were looking forward to it; on the second, I don't know how you're going to sublimate that feeling; Imagine what it will give the third!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u63	In the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is Mr Joël Aviragnet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u64	In view of the non-compensation of exemptions from social contributions, the deindexation of social benefits, in particular retirement pensions, and the absolutely inadequate nature of ONDAM, especially in view of the crisis in the public hospital, the Socialist and related group will obviously vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u65	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u66	You are aware of the aversion of the IDU, Act and Independent Group to motions for prior rejection and referral back to committee – when the latter still existed –, aversion fuelled by the experiences of recent years. Not only does this new reading offer us the opportunity to highlight the positive points in the text before us, but we want to debate, Madam Minister, to propose further progress on certain provisions which, on the other hand, continue to upset us or raise our doubts – I am thinking in particular of those relating to the regulation of medical devices. Finally – as you said, dear colleague Dharréville – adopting the motion to reject beforehand would be giving the hand to the Government, which could then proceed by order, which would deprive us of the debate and the co-construction that it will, I hope, make possible. Therefore, because the word "abandonment" is not part of our vocabulary, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u67	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u68	It would be wrong to say that the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020 meets our expectations. We have explained this at first reading: this text is insufficient, especially with regard to our health care system. That is why the vast majority of the Libertés et Territoires Group voted against the text. Nevertheless, the Government's announcements concerning the public hospital, which took place after the demonstration of the caregivers on 14 November, give it a slight positive inflection, even if, once again, we were expecting more. We believe that we need to discuss the new measures announced, in particular the increase in ONDAM, which we continue to find insufficient. The debate was all the more important since, at first reading, the National Assembly had before it a text which the Government itself had acknowledged was not providing the expected answers, which had forced it to submit a plan for the public hospital in a hurry. We expect more from this new reading. For these reasons, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u69	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u70	The Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. As Pierre Dharréville said, the announcements that have been made are insufficient and we disagree on many points with the Social Security Financing Bill. Admittedly, the adoption of the motion of rejection would be tantamount to giving the Government the hand. But the decisions he has made are not the right ones; They are very insufficient. And if you have received representatives of hospital staff at your duty stations, ladies and gentlemen, or if you have met them during their mobilizations, you will have realized that it is not a small number of them who are on strike, but the vast majority, that it is not a professional category in the hospital sector which thus asks to be able to treat patients with dignity, or part of them, but all. Treating patients with dignity is, in fact, the most essential of their demands. [[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the way to Rouen, President Macron had responded to a caregiver that there was "no magic money". The good news is that the EUR 4 billion needed to treat patients with dignity is financial: it is enough to remove the unjust wage tax, which is precisely 4 billion. Don't make fun: the solution exists, it can be implemented tomorrow. Colleagues, if you end up in the hospital, perhaps you can be treated with dignity; You won't be unhappy, I think, not to wait hours on a stretcher. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] The subject is essential. Let us therefore leave our hand to the Government; Oh, my God! Exceptionally, let us consent to the ordinances that he has so often imposed on us, hoping that, for once, he will make the right decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u71	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u72	An exceptional mobilization took place on 14 November. And, for the first time, the President of the Republic spoke during a demonstration to announce emergency measures for the health sector. A few days later, the Government presented these measures. This was, Madam Minister, the fourth plan you presented. One might say that you finally looked at the patient; But the cure you've given her is far from enough. This is what the inter-hospital collective, the trade unions and representatives of the many health professions have said. To such an extent that a new day of mobilization is announced for November 30 – and another, from the interns, on December 10. The mobilization will continue, and the strike continues in more than 200 hospitals. The situation is particularly serious. It would therefore have been wise to take the time to go further, to bring to the caregiving world all the answers it expects. We do not believe that your emergency measures will, in the coming months and years, reduce waiting times in emergency services, reopen maternity or emergency services, or raise the level of salaries of caregivers, especially nurses and caregivers. We are far from it: no bed opening, only a partial recovery of the debt – everything is partial in what you announce, while we need a global, total response. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Pierre Dharréville also applauds]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u73	On the vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u74	One observation, first of all: the hospital has been vegetating for several years; the responsibilities of the complex situation we are experiencing today are therefore shared, we should all keep this in mind. Today, while some are trying to avoid the collapse of the 20th century hospital, for our part, we want to build the 21st century hospital, focusing on patients and, of course, on health care teams. This choice goes back to the beginning of our mandate; So the measures we are talking about did not arrive like a hair on the soup, as we could hear. Among our strong decisions in this direction are the revision of activity pricing, the revision of hospital fees, the reform of medical studies, the plan "my health 2022", designed to articulate the city and the hospital, the reform of psychiatry or the reform of emergencies, not to mention the future, thanks to the Health Data Hub, the future public health data platform. Today, there is also a plan to give healthcare teams their role in the governance of the public hospital, in hospital centres – CH – as well as in university hospitals – CHU – in order to focus on the quality of care and on the patient. It represents 12 billion euros: it is a massive investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u75	By the way, everyone's happy, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u76	It takes years to repair certain errors, especially those on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u77	I also hear about purchasing power; I refer you to the economic and social emergency measures, which weigh 17 billion, as well as to the considerable reduction in taxes that is under way, the best way to restore purchasing power. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The majority's approach is responsible, consistent and forward-looking. With regard to the many other proposals that I hear, I will repeat the slogan of a famous advertisement: "There is less good, but it is more expensive"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u78	That's why people strike!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u79	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u80	The Group of the Republicans approves Pierre Dharréville on one point, and only one: the PLFSS is based on the non-compensation of the loss of profits caused by the emergency measures for social security revenues, to the detriment of the social insured. Having said that, we note the Government's late progress in favour of the public hospital, its health-care staff, and ONDAM – whose rate should never have been reduced. We could have expected better, if not more: this will be the subject of the debate that will open. Therefore, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u81	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u82	The MODEM Group will obviously vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. Of course, the conditions for consideration of the PLFSS are special, as the Senate rejected the text pending the announcement of the plan for the public hospital. These announcements have since been made; You yourself have come to present them in the Committee on Social Affairs, Madam Minister. This is a substantial, and even historical, effort: the human person is placed at the heart of the system, thanks in particular to various bonuses granted to caregivers; large investments are made possible; Finally, it must be said, the debt of public hospitals is resumed, for almost a third. We will say it again, but we are already saying it because we are given the opportunity to do so: we are very satisfied with these announcements. They are not only a breath of oxygen, they also allow for the restructuring of several parts of the management of hospitals. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We will oppose the motion in order to be able to continue our work on a text that also contains good measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u83	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u84	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 10 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u85	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u86	"Hide and shut up! Minister, this is the instruction you gave to hospital professionals last week, when you presented your hospital plan to the press. Once again, once again, obsessed by the media effect of your ads, you have forgotten people! You have forgotten those who every day are at the bedside of the sick and the elderly! Your plan had only one ambition: to respond in the media to last week's health professional strike. The "com" exercise suits you well: you talk about "renewing oxygen in the hospital", of "historical effort", you even allow yourself to screen an arm of iron with Bercy to show how difficult the measurements of your plan were to obtain, but the reality is quite different and you have to denounce this grotesque spectacle of bonusrs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u87	Tact and measure, Mr. Aviragnet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u88	With regard to the attractiveness of the professions, you are announcing national bonuses or rather sprinklers, including a bonus of 66 euros per month for nurses and nursing assistants in Paris. It doesn't matter to you that French nurses are among the least well paid in the OECD, you only have to do caregivers outside Paris, while others also deserve a bonus. And these premiums will be awarded by hospital managers in a completely discretionary manner. For two and a half years as a minister, you have not spared your predecessors, sometimes unjustly, but you have never had a critical look at your own actions. Perhaps that is what is truly historic: your inability to take your part in the crisis in the public hospital. You have announced a plan of €1.5 billion over three years for hospitals, including €300 million from 2020. The reality is that we looked for the 300 million and didn't find them: we found 200 million in a government amendment, not 300 million. It's a new perjury for the Republic on the move! You are talking about EUR 1.5 billion, but again, you are not telling the truth, because you are accounting for sums already planned and announced. Only an additional EUR 600 million has been added to the hospital budget for the next three years. Your €1.5 billion plan is actually a €600 million plan. Crumbs for the hospital, that's what you got from your iron arm staged with Bercy; That is what this Government is prepared to consent to at the public hospital. However, you were right about one thing, Madam Minister: the use of the word "historical". Indeed, it is historic, for never before you, neither the right nor the left had shown such cynicism towards the public hospital. Yes, we socialists made mistakes; Yes, we have given up social security as never before, and that has had a negative impact on the public hospital, we recognize.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u89	Technically, Sarkozy had done even more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u90	It was a matter of deciding on responsibility to ensure the sustainability of our social system. We have done so in order to allow the French to benefit from new protections and to grant caregivers new rights through a return to balance social security. How can we not remind you that we managed to stop the growth of hospital public debt as early as 2013, when it had tripled between 2002 and 2013? The ruling socialists had put $2 billion on the table for the public hospital over five years, and it was new money. That's one thing you're unable to match. I am proud of our record and I would have liked it to benefit both the public hospital and the French. However, you have decided in this PLFSS to allow the social security to bear exemptions from contributions to employers because this government uses the contributions of the French not to finance their health or retirement, but to finance the aid to employers, thus violating the law of 25 July 1994 on social security, known as the Veil law. You're talking about "historical effort," Minister; I'll talk to you about history. Simone Veil fought in the 1990s to ensure the autonomy of social security, and even its survival, when some tried to put it under the supervision of the State budget. It then passed the rule of compensation for social security exemptions and also, in a pension reform, the obligation to index retirement pensions to inflation. I confess that my arms fall from seeing you methodically unblock Simone Veil's advances in social security! [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In conclusion, what more can we say than Simone Veil's words before the Senate on June 8, 1994: "...let's not forget our common good of social security, let's keep our understanding of it from the point of view of burdens and deficits, let's remember what French society used to be. Social security is not only a financial hole, it is first and foremost a huge social progress and the most powerful factor of social cohesion that exists in France, which we have a duty to preserve for future generations. How premonitory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u91	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u92	We are addressing the re-reading of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020. The IDU, Action and Independent Group has already had the opportunity to point out the imperfections, but also the positive points, with which I will begin. You finally compensate, Madam Minister, for the caregiving leave, and we will be at the meeting to accompany you and, I hope, to further evolve what is an immense advance for caregivers. I also welcome your new policy towards caregivers, a subject to which, as you know, I am particularly committed. You are also creating a compensation fund for land workers who are victims of pesticides. Of which note, even if we believe that the State should also be involved in its financing, because it was in fact the State which gave the marketing authorisations at the time. You are also planning a mechanism to ensure that maintenance payments are paid without interruption; This is a step forward that reaches a strong expectation of our fellow citizens and, in particular, of our fellow citizens. In addition, you are finally enduring the exceptional purchasing power bonus created last year, which had been a great success, but, Madam Minister, we hope to see you change your mind about its terms when we turn to section 7. In fact, making the payment of this premium subject to the establishment of an interest agreement means in practice that it cannot be paid for TPEs. The establishment of such an agreement takes time and cannot be resolved by the provision of model agreements by the Government. For checking it from the first reading with the employers concerned, I note that you will create misunderstanding and further discontent after announcing the renewal of this premium for next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u94	You create unnecessary tensions in these small businesses because the information of employees on this subject will go to the entrepreneurs. Of course, we share your desire to expand the culture of self-interest in our country, and that is even one of the ways we advocate to raise wages and improve the social climate. But I think that you are making a mistake on this point, and that this new provision will not be understood. With regard to your new policy on the regulation of medical devices, we are also awaiting changes. As it stands, it risks lastingly penalising a sector composed of 92% of TPE-SME and curbing innovation, a nonsense with regard to the ambulatory shift. We are also in a somewhat new situation today because of the Senate's rejection of the text, which finds it insinuating because of the upcoming announcements about the hospital. While I welcome your work on this important subject, in particular the consultation phase that you have given yourself, we can only regret the late presentation of your proposal. Indeed, we have the unpleasant feeling of reviving last year's situation where, because of the yellow vest crisis, the executive had made a last-minute turnaround and given in to requests that we ourselves had made for several months – I am thinking in particular of the one relating to the CSG for modest pensioners. This year, we have repeatedly alerted hospitals to the dangers of rigorous treatment, to the detriment of their attractiveness and ability to innovate. This deleterious situation, which you inherited, led them to the impasse with a cumulative abyssal deficit of almost 30 billion euros. Even if it may seem late, we must pay tribute to the real effort you are making: 1.5 billion euros over three years, combined with the recovery of a third of public hospital debt. This decision was also welcomed by the hospital federations. We fear, however, that the policy of targeted premiums specifically for the modest staff of the AP-HP would appear to be unfair, while other territories in tension would also deserve special attention. More fundamentally, we are convinced that there is a need for a fundamental change in the direction of our health policies, which cannot remain forever linked to the national objective of health insurance expenditure as a tool for regulating expenditure, because ONDAM-related savings are mainly imposed on health facilities, since the envelope for city care is not limited. It is true that for the first time this year, a prudential reserve mechanism has been put in place for city care, just as the hospital knows too well. It is also true that you have introduced the principle of pluriannuality in the financing of hospitals to give them greater visibility. You know my commitment to the principle of budgetary pluriannuality, which I would also like to see extended to the pharmaceutical sector. Nor can the steering of our health policies remain linked to ONDAM for a second reason: health inequalities too often combine with inequalities in work, access to culture or leisure, and because they are particularly significant in some territories, we need to better adapt all our policies to local needs. Without moving towards regional health insurance objectives, which may be technically unsatisfactory, we need to go further in the territorialization of our health policies. We will propose amendments to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u95	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u96	A month ago, as we began our consideration of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020, a figure had caught the attention of the Libertés et territoires group and aroused our disappointment. The national health insurance expenditure target was set at 2.3% for 2020. It was very little, too little. This was a step backwards from last year's momentum, which was incomprehensible as the situation of hospitals and emergency services has worsened for several years, even more so for several months. Even though we know that the PLFSS is not just about funding hospitals or just about the risk of illness, the hopes, our hopes, as well as those of the hospital staff who are in arrears, and those of the citizens who are having difficulty getting care, all these hopes have been disappointed at the conclusion of our debates at first reading, which are the sources of great frustration. Today, the deal has changed. The Government's announcements on the public hospital, unveiled last Wednesday after the health care workers' demonstration on 14 November, are changing the trajectory for 2020. An increase of €1.5 billion over three years for the public hospital, of which €300 million in 2020, will result in an increase of the hospital ONDAM, now set at 2.4% instead of 2.1% in the initial PLFSS. But let us bear in mind that the natural increase in care burdens would have required an increase of at least 4.5%. The proposed increase is therefore not enough to get out of this crisis situation, and our group believes that this is only a first step. Minister, everyone here is aware of this, you inherit a deep crisis, and your room for manoeuvre seems very limited. Our goal is not to make you bear the full responsibility for the crisis, let alone to say that nothing has been done since you arrived. In this regard, I am thinking in particular of the tariff revalorisation, which you are announcing will continue until 2022, as well as the thawing of prudential reserves and the partial restitution of the under-execution of ONDAM in 2019. But it is necessary to go further as the needs are excruciating. The structural reform of the outpatient shift will take time to produce its effects and without immediate substantial funding, the difficulties of our health system will worsen. Inadequate hospital resources not only undermine any capacity for investment and innovation, but, worse still, exacerbate the deficits of institutions, which even struggle to cover their current expenses. Moreover, hospital attractiveness is more in jeopardy than ever, and you do not respond to the necessary salary increase of dedicated but exhausted staff, with some targeted and limited bonuses in Paris and the Paris region – you thus oppose them to their provincial colleagues. But note that this revised PLFSS will give hospitals greater multi-year visibility. It was an essential demand that had to be met. The decision to take over one third of hospital debt, i.e. EUR 10 billion over three years, will improve the investment capacity of hospitals and give them some oxygen. However, we do not know the distribution of this amount or the conditions of eligibility associated with it – we hope that this recovery will not only benefit the larger institutions. Our concern about the future of the public hospital – and more generally about the future of our health care system – would almost make us forget the provisions of the text that improve the existing one. As we have had the opportunity to say at first reading, the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020 is indeed making real progress. I am thinking in particular of the establishment of a public maintenance payment service, the creation of a paid care package to support patients after cancer, or the setting up of a fund to compensate victims of pesticides. Finally, we very much welcome the compensation for caregiving leave, even if we would have liked the duration of the allowance to be aligned with that of the leave, which can last up to one year. On the other hand, the Libertés et Territoires Group remains in deep disagreement with all the measures aimed at reducing purchasing power – I am thinking in particular of the underindexation of certain pensions and social benefits – especially since your budgetary arbitrage, coupled with the economic situation, will increase the social security deficit, which is expected to exceed EUR 5 billion by 2020. These considerations do not allow us to look with confidence at ongoing and future reforms. Today we insist on hospitals and the transformation of the health care system, but the challenges of pensions and addiction care are just as worrying. You will have understood this: the Libertés et territoires Group welcomes a necessary first step, but believes that it is essential to go further to preserve the foundations of our social protection system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u97	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u98	The primary role of the State, through its general policy, is to make every effort to ensure the well-being of its people. You must be aware, Madam Minister, that you are far from it. I am referring here to children, elderly or disabled people, employees, jobless people: I am talking about people, people who look at us and expect solutions to repel suffering, poverty, humiliation and the violation of their dignity. Poverty that is gaining ground, suffering at work and lack of consideration are all factors triggering ill-being and disease. The French and French are not machines, but beings of flesh and blood. Not only does the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020 not meet expectations in any way, it also represents an additional sign of the Government's contempt for Parliament. Thus we learned, while the debates were under way in the Senate, that the Government would make budget announcements on the hospital. Our colleagues in this chamber have made no mistake: your Government has decided to introduce a budget that has become fundamentally insidious, deciding to amend it in the course of its consideration and to propose, on November 20, some measures that change the situation. This is no longer the rule of law. You don't listen to the anger that's rumbling. You don't want to hear anything. Now that the emergency services have been on strike – which is historic – eight months ago, it is during the review of the social security budget that you decide to get out of your hat. Why? You could have included them in the text tabled at first reading. Instead, you are imposing on us the examination of these announcements by way of amendment, that is, without any real prior assessment and without giving us time to analyse them. Your approach is clear: you are flouting the debate, you are walking on Parliament and, therefore, you are weakening the rule of law. Why? I would remind you, Madam Minister, that it is up to Parliament to decide on tax relief, to rule on the framework of contributions and to vote on the budget, after an informed debate. This is not the case today. It's serious. Now that we know that you would have preferred to speak to a technocrats' club rather than the people's representatives, I will focus on your announcements and part of this social security funding bill. If your policy were effective, we would already see the effects. Unfortunately, this is not the case; On the contrary, the situation is getting worse. Since you came to power, you have imposed more than 12 billion euros of savings on the health of French and French people, to such an extent that even deans of the Faculty of Medicine today call for a strike: it's never seen! You announced last week the payment of bonuses, but mainly to the staff of Île-de-France. Why this discrimination? Such a measure is far – far away, even – from responding to the demands of professionals, who demand a general wage increase of around 300 euros. You do not propose anything about recruitment, while one of the first demands of caregivers is to be able to do their job properly, without mistreating patients. As for the increase in the budget announced, I would like to recall that the national target for health insurance expenditure required savings of €4.2 billion and €3.8 billion respectively for 2018 and 2019. For the 2020 financial year, it is again €4.2 billion in savings that are planned. What are your announcements worth with respect to these 12 billion euros of savings, of which 8 billion have already been punctured? Nothing – or so little! In this way you organize, methodically, the complete dismantling of the public hospital. Madam Minister, you've been a doctor. Answer me very sincerely: when you wake up every morning, do you have a thought for your former colleagues who have been on strike for months, who are sick because of working in bad conditions, who are in burnout and who unfortunately, for some, are committing suicide? Do you give a thought to the sick who die on stretchers while waiting for emergency care? You don't think about them. Therefore, in the face of your desire to move our system to an American-style system that will benefit the private sector, we will continue to propose a great forklift. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In the meantime, we will do everything democracy allows us to push your government back. On December 5, all in the street, until France is doing well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u99	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u100	Faced with the exceptional mobilization of hospital staff for several months, the Government has urgently announced, for the fourth time in fourteen months, a plan for hospitals, which have been subject to austerity for too long years – you are right on this point: the problem does not date today. We were all waiting for large-scale measures for the public hospital. Unfortunately, Madam Minister, your plan is a drop of Betadine on an open fracture: you certainly look at the patient, but it is not such a remedy that will cure him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u101	No, but it stings!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u102	The demands of the Inter-Emergences collective, the Inter-Hospital collective and the trade unions are clear: they expect an increase in ONDAM of 4% – simply to face the natural evolution of the demand for care of our fellow citizens – as well as wage increases of 300 euros net and the reopening of hospital beds. It must be noted that your ads missed their target. You are planning to reinject 300 million euros in hospitals in 2020, while continuing to demand 700 million euros in savings. So all you do is lighten a burden that you have helped to weigh. Since 2017, €3.3 billion in savings have been requested from the public hospital service. You are also announcing a spread of premiums for caregivers and physicians rather than a thaw of their point of index. Only some of them will be affected, through discretionary bonuses granted by the directorates or compensation supplements for those working in the Paris region. Finally, you do not commit to the reopening of beds and the creation of posts, while many hospital services are understaffed and require beds to accommodate patients. If this is the case, it is because of your obstinacy – shared by the government as a whole – to reduce public spending, to tap the cost of labour and to reduce the tax burden on capital. Let us remember: the amount of employer contribution exemptions planned for this year amounts to €66 billion, or 13% of the social security budget. You also deprive the social security budget of €3 billion by deciding not to compensate for some of these exemptions. This amount is equivalent to the deficit in the general scheme. In this way, you artificially create a deficit to prepare our fellow citizens for new sacrifices on pensions or social benefits. Thus, in 2020, pensions above EUR 2000 – such as family allowances – will be undervalued in the light of inflation trends. Finally, let's talk about the debt, Madam Minister and Minister de Bercy: you're taking back 10 billion euros, while the hospital debt amounts to 30 billion. Why stop in the middle of the way? You explain that the recovery of €10 billion in debt will save hospitals €800 million in interest charges per year. If you took over the entire hospital debt, it would be 2.4 billion euros that we could recover to invest in hospitals! Why not go to the end and take over only a third of the debt? You will oppose me that a total recovery would lead to an increase in France's debt. So what? It's about treating France and its hospitals! Such an argument is all the less so since the money has never been as cheap as it is right now, thanks to loans at negative interest rates. We had already stressed, at first reading, the few good measures contained in the text. Indemnification for caring leave is part of this. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has, moreover, played a major role in putting this measure forward in the public debate. This is the first social breakthrough for millions of caregivers. However, in view of the rest of the text, this is very little in the balance! The social security budget reflects the level of social rights that the nation grants its fellow citizens to cope with the hazards of existence. The funding bill for 2020, if it is voted as it is, will not derogate from the two previous ones: it will weaken our health care system and devote your renunciation to finding funding to improve the daily lives of French people. As social anger rises in the country on the eve of the December 5 mobilisation, you unfortunately choose to make our social model the variable of adjustment of your policy in favor of the most fortunate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we invite you to review your copy once and for all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u103	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u104	The bill on the financing of social security for 2020 has undergone an extremely important development since its first reading in the National Assembly: the ONDAM for the hospital has made considerable progress – as well as, by impact, the overall ONDAM, as the other ONDAMs have not suffered any decrease. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party welcome this development, which they called for from the first reading of the text. We are fully aware of the difficulties encountered by the public hospital: they are old and weigh heavily on the working conditions of the hospital staff, as well as on the service provided to the users. They are partly due to structural problems related to the lack of doctors and some professionals – we still pay for the effects of the numerus clausus, which it was high time to delete – but also to inadequate pricing and years of budgetary pressure. These dysfunctions, which go beyond the scope of the hospital and are linked to our entire health care system, are of concern to us. That is why we supported the reform of the health care system that you proposed, Minister, and whose law on the organization and transformation of the health care system is one of the pillars. However, this reform is a long time, and the public hospital – to which we are very attached – can no longer wait. Today, with the new version of the PLFSS for 2020, we are focusing on the directions taken by increasing the hospital budget, with the aim of providing answers to professionals. However, we will remain vigilant about the implementation of these measures and their concrete results. To that end, we call for the establishment of a follow-up committee, to which we wish to be closely associated. I also stress the need to strengthen approaches to improving the quality of life at work at the hospital, since their contributions are indisputable and indispensable. Professionals need to be given room for manoeuvre so that they can organise themselves and find meaning and breath on a daily basis, so that the investments made possible by the takeover by the state of a large part of hospital debt produce positive effects for professionals and patients. However, we must act responsibly, because we are aware that the increase in ONDAM affects the budgetary balance of social security. We will therefore be vigilant in the evaluation of the PLFSS, scheduled for next spring. The text discussed in a new reading contains a number of emblematic provisions, including the essential solidarity measure of compensation for close care leave. It also reflects the fulfilment of the promise of the President of the Republic to combat the non-payment of maintenance payments through the establishment of a recovery service. It implements the reform of our health system and reinforces the logic of prevention. Finally, it stems from a desire to modernise and simplify – much expected by our fellow citizens – our social protection system. I also welcome social justice measures such as the indexation of pensions below EUR 2000 on inflation and the continued exceptional upgrading of social minimums. The post-cancer accompaniment device is also a positive illustration of the logic of a structured care path around the patient. Finally, the inclusion of our elders and persons with disabilities is particularly important in the text. We therefore very much welcome the securing of the journeys of persons with disabilities through the agreement with Belgian institutions. However, we wish to assess precisely the development of alternative solutions on French territory in order to ensure that we improve the response to the needs expressed by these people and their families. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of these observations, the members of the La République on the move express their support for this draft law on the financing of social security for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u105	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u106	This year was to be the first of Act II of the quinquennium, intended – according to the Prime Minister's promise – to "fulfill the aspirations of the French" and "to appease". Yet the spectacle offered by the Government on the occasion of the examination of the PLFSS is a very bad play, in a performance not in two acts but in three. The first act took place last month, here, at the first reading of the text. Last year, the Government announced, with great reinforcement of communication, that the social security accounts would be balanced in 2019. In fact, this balance lasted only two weeks! Its budget for 2020 is finally built on the basis of a deficit of 5.1 billion euros,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u107	It's not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u108	... social security has been called to the rescue to remedy a failing fiscal policy, hence the subterfuge of the non-compensation by the State of the loss of revenue due to the measures following the yellow vest crisis. However, the efforts of health professionals and contributors had enabled social security accounts to be adjusted. On the other hand, budget savings are hitting the drug sector and undermining the innovation capabilities of the pharmaceutical industry. For its part, the public hospital is sacrificed, assigned to the rank of adjustment variable, while a new social movement, which appeared last March, is growing in the emergency services. The ONDAM is reduced by 2.5% – its 2019 level – to 2.3%, and the hospital ONDAM drops to 2.1%, at the risk of precipitating the collapse of the public hospital. The Ministry of Economy and Finance has even for a moment indicated that even a partial recovery of the colossal debt of public hospitals was "not an option envisaged". Thus, the last two years will have been characterized by the difficult reversible rupture of the public hospital with the republican social pact that we hold. The second act took place on 14 November, following the demonstration of hospital staff and EHPAD staff for the rescue of the hospital, in conjunction with the examination of the PLFSS at first reading by the Senate. On that day, the President of the Republic announced – under pressure – a reinforced action plan for the public hospital. On that occasion, we learned that the budget originally proposed was built on the basis of an ONDAM dummy. This is a camouflet for the Senate, invited to vote one budget at the very moment when the Government announces in the media to prepare another, and a humiliation for the National Assembly, the majority of which had already adopted a PLFSS built on outdated foundations. In any event, the presidential intervention has undoubtedly undermined the principle of the sincerity of the accounts and disrupted the regular conduct of the budgetary procedure. The third act is about to be played. At the end of a joint facade committee, we are witnessing the translation into the text under discussion in a new reading, by means of first aid amendments, of an emergency plan which has not convinced more than the previous announcements: after 70 million euros in June, 750 million over four years in September! In fact, the 2.4% increase in hospital ONDAM is just the correction of a measure that you should never have included in the original text. In addition, last year's rate of 2.5% should have been maintained. We were waiting for an act of redesign of the public hospital, a plan in depth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u109	Save-who-who-can!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u110	With an extension of 300 million euros, you just give oxygen to the caregivers, who can no longer, to test the amount from which you think you can alleviate their anger. You give hospitals a partial discharge of their debt, but will the resulting room for manoeuvre be used to finance investments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u111	There's room for doubt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u112	You do not announce any opening of posts, but you are determined to put an end to mercenarism in certain specialties, which is, moreover, a very laudable objective. We were also expecting a re-evaluation of the medical professions. You are content to sprinkle here and there modest bonuses, not integrable in pensions. In addition, by giving a bonus of 66 euros per month to certain nursing and nursing staff from Paris and the small crown, you oppose Paris to the French medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u113	Thank you for the province!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u114	Yet the work of caregivers deserves much more, throughout the country. Minister, you're Bercy's hostage. That is why you cannot draw the final curtain from this theatrical performance, which you should not confuse with the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u115	And you create territorial disparities!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Even though this PLFSS contains completely consensual provisions, we still do not accept the budget construction on which it is based.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u117	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u118	The new reading of the PLFSS takes place in a particular context, characterized by the announcement by the Government of comprehensive measures to support the public hospital. We welcome the contingency plan decided last week and the budgetary effort it involves. It provides a strong response to the distress and anger expressed by caregivers, whose situation has deteriorated significantly for decades. We would like to pay tribute to them, as they are the pillars of a health system whose functioning depends on their dedication. These measures were not yet known when the PLFSS was examined in the Senate at first reading, which led the High Assembly to reject the text. It is therefore the version adopted by our Assembly at first reading that we are considering today. During this new reading, our group will continue to engage with the Government and to support the provisions aimed at simplifying our social protection system, improving the value of work and increasing purchasing power, thus responding to the demands expressed by the French in recent months. We will do so bearing in mind that solidarity and responsibility must be the two pillars of strengthening social justice, which is itself a condition of our national cohesion. The provisions on the financing of community hospitals and psychiatry, the reorganization of several key sectors of our health system and the introduction of a multi-year guarantee of funding for health facilities are all positive points in the text, and our group supports them. These measures, complemented by a €1.5 billion public hospital support plan, are part of the overall approach of the "My Health 2022" plan, which will bear fruit in the medium term. Our group also supports the investment of EUR 500 million in the construction of old age and autonomy, in anticipation of the bill which is scheduled for consideration at the end of the year. However, the effort for the home care sector started this year will have to be sustained to ensure a balanced dependency reform. In addition, home care cannot be considered independently of family caregivers. They play a fundamental role, to the extent that without them care for dependent, sick and disabled people would become impossible. It should be noted that, according to a recent survey, the loss of autonomy scares the French: for 90% of them, this is a major concern, if not a priority. For this reason, the members of the MODEM and related groups welcome the compensation for caregiving leave, a measure long awaited by professionals in the sector. However, this significant progress can only be a first step – we fear, in particular, that the duration of compensation will not be too short. The evaluation of the scheme, the principle of which was adopted on our proposal, will have to lead to a rebalancing designed to better meet the needs of the carers. Minister, Minister, we are well aware that you are inaugurating a public policy here, and that you are opening up a new right. We also welcome the strategy of mobilizing and supporting caregivers launched last month. In particular, it sheds light on young caregivers, who were previously the most forgotten of public policies in this area. On another subject, which is of particular interest to me, we look forward to the creation of a comprehensive care path after cancer treatment. This measure, which is innovative and essential for former patients, has been enriched with a device specifically aimed at paediatric cancers, in response to the law aimed at strengthening the management of paediatric cancers, which I had the honour of being the rapporteur during its consideration by the Assembly, and which came into force last March. Naturally, we will take part in the application of this very important provision for sick children. Finally, I will refer to family policy. At the first reading of the text, we were disappointed by the Government's lack of support in this regard, particularly with regard to our proposal to pay the birth premium before the arrival of the child, at least for the most modest households. We call on the Government to take the opportunity of the new reading of the text – as it has done with regard to measures in favour of the public hospital – to propose a satisfactory solution on this point. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] This would be an important first step, pending the proposals that will soon be put on the table by the fact-finding mission on the adaptation of French family policy to the challenges of the 21st century, of which I am rapporteur. We therefore wish to adopt a comprehensive vision of family policy as early as next year, which is essential for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u119	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u120	I now call the articles of the bill in the Government's text, beginning with the provisions for fiscal year 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u121	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u122	With regard to the provisions of this article, I would like to comment on the Is based on the report of the President of the High Council for Social Protection Financing – HCFi-PS –, Mr Libault. The Committee recommends that social security finances be updated more seriously, which means maintaining social security financing laws, as well as taking better account of the financial situation of hospitals and medical and social institutions. That is also what we are saying. It also recommends that the multi-annual dimension of the PLFSS be strengthened and effectively adhered to. Above all, with regard to relations between the State and social security, the report considers it necessary that the former compensate the revenue losses of the latter when they result from its decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u123	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u124	We are now addressing the second part of the bill, with respect to the 2019 fiscal year provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u125	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u126	Article 3 is the point of this budget which gives rise to the strongest reaction on our part, since it provides for the non-compensation by the State of some EUR 3 billion of revenue which has been abolished as a result of the measures taken in response to the movement of yellow vests. These social emergency measures, we voted for them, we cannot say the opposite. But we did not think that they would be charged to the social security budget, which is put in deficit by the state itself by 5.1 billion this year and 5.4 billion next year. This is a break in the pact of autonomy that had been established for the benefit of social security, a breach against which all the actors of health – whether they belong to the boards of directors of the funds or to other institutions – as well as the social insured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u127	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 101, 208 and 320, to delete Article 3. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u128	The yellow vests challenged the established order and called for a new sharing of value and wealth. It must be noted that their fight is fair: out of 100 euros of profits, 67 are reserved for the remuneration of shareholders and only 5 for bonuses for employees. In the face of this challenge, it seems necessary to establish a new balance of forces for a fairer distribution of wealth. The Government preferred to recycle the old used software of its predecessors. However, the policy of exempting social security contributions is dangerous. It certainly allows for a temporary gain in net wages, but has direct consequences on the financing of our collective social protection system. The aim of this policy is clear: it tends to dry up the financing of social security and make it indigent before organising a two-speed system for private protection: on the one hand, a thin safety net for the large mass and, on the other, a system complementary to the private for those who could afford it. We oppose this logic, and that is why we call for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u129	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 208.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u130	I will not go back to the arguments already put forward concerning the autonomy of the social security budget and the break with a form of republican contract which, surviving the alternations, guaranteed the compensation of the reductions in contributions. But I would add that this breakdown puts social security under stress when it has almost returned to balance. Moreover, when you reduce social contributions without providing for compensation, you actually reduce gross wages, that is to say, the wages of our fellow citizens. It is therefore only apparently an increase in purchasing power. In reality, on the scale of earnings received throughout their lives, the French, whose purchasing power you claim to increase, will see it decline. As for the EUR 17 billion that the emergency measures voted during the yellow vest crisis cost, we would have liked them to be distributed a little more fairly. Let us take the reduction of social contributions by 22 billion: it is equivalent, on average, over three years, to about 20 euros per month per French. But it is interesting to look at the actual breakdown of this purchasing power gain: 1% went to the 10% of the poorest households, an increase of about 5 euros per month. As a result, they have reached ten times less than the proportion of the population they represent. If, on the other hand, you consider the 1% of the richest households, they have benefited from 6% of this purchasing power gain, i.e. about €372 per month; As for the 0,1 % of the richest French, they received 30 times as much as their share of the population, i.e. around 1923 euros per month. These are the reasons why we do not agree with this non-compensation and propose the deletion of Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u131	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 320.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u132	This debate is one of the most important issues raised by this bill on the financing of social security. I understand that this article has given rise to discussions up to the majority, and that it raises a real debate which, in my opinion, did not end with the unsatisfactory vote obtained at the first reading. This debate continues all the more as the situation is the one we have described. The EUR 2.8 billion of uncompensated exemptions are roughly equivalent to the deficit of the general scheme – EUR 3.1 billion. So we can see that this money is lacking in social security. The state itself chooses to make it bear the cost of decisions that are not its responsibility, and requires it to contribute to otherwise questionable policies, whether from the point of view of their effects on purchasing power and inequalities – Boris Vallaud has just demonstrated this brilliantly – or from the point of view of the financing of social security itself. At this stage – this is almost the last time we deliberate on this – we should really think twice before approving a measure that not only undermines the proper functioning of the accounts for 2020, but also breaks with the principle of compensation, which opens the way for further drifts in the coming years. I insist, let's make the right choice, it's still possible. Social security needs 2.8 billion euros. Let's keep them to social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u133	What is the committee's opinion on these three deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u134	Perhaps I will reply here to all the amendments to Article 3, unless you wish to re-read the debate we had in the first one. As for non-compensations, you know my attachment to the Veil Act of 1994 rather than to the doctrine defined by the report of Christian Charpy and Julien Dubertret. You remember all our debates on this subject at first reading, as well as the votes that took place in committee and then in session. However, it must be recognized that the situation has changed a great deal since the first reading: the emergency measures announced on Wednesday do good in the hospital, and therefore in the social security system. Let us assume that it will be the state that will actually pay off 10 billion hospital debts, not social security. In this case, it can only be recognized collectively that the State has made a very strong gesture towards the latter, far greater by its magnitude than the non-compensations of this year and previous years. If this were not the case, the next financial year would allow us to draw the consequences. The significant investments made possible by the release of EUR 1.5 billion over three years are also a very strong signal sent to the public hospital, which is the cherished child of social security. This shows the considerable effort made by the public authorities, by the State, to benefit the health of the French. I will therefore give an opinion against these deletion amendments, as well as all the amendments relating to non-compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u136	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u137	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u138	One word, Mr rapporteur, to point out that Article 3 poses a particular difficulty. At first reading, you yourself were sensitive to the arguments we had put forward, to the point, if I remember correctly, that the Committee on Social Affairs had voted for the deletion of Article 3, which acknowledges the non-compensation by the State of the expenditure generated by the measures announced on 10 December 2018 by the President of the Republic. That is to say, it is a fundamental problem. Social security was to be balanced in 2019 and 2020. Finally, it is not, because the State has chosen not to compensate for the loss of revenue, despite its obligation under the Veil Act of 1994. We therefore maintain our amendments and will defend them until the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u139	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u140	[[Smile]] I will simply point out to the rapporteur that I have kept myself, in my explanation, from establishing a link between this non-compensation and the situation of the hospital, since he and the minister had told me that there were absolutely none. I note that he is now making this link: he is therefore able to change his mind and arguments with great skill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u141	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u142	Without at least trying to put you in trouble, Mr rapporteur, I take it from your answer that you remain in doubt about the idea of breaking with the principle of compensation. You yourself said that you were in agreement with the Veil doctrine rather than with that of the Charpy-Dubertret report, if I understood correctly. But we are just about to choose between the two, and clearly abandon the first for the second. We can't compare cabbages and carrots. You are talking about the resumption of hospital debt to try to justify this non-compensation measure. It's not the same thing. The State has responsibilities for debt, but it also faces contemporary realities that it cannot avoid. And he must not come to the social security funds to pick up the means to carry out policies that are not part of social security. We are at the heart of an important debate. Let us therefore speak of the first intuition which guided the Committee on Social Affairs when it adopted an amendment abolishing the non-compensation of revenue losses related to economic and social emergency measures. That intuition was the right one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u143	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u144	The Court of Auditors' annual public report for 2019 shows that the social security debt is growing, particularly as a result of the increase in exemptions from social security contributions. This debt endangers our collective social protection system. To remedy this, the evolution of the CSG decided by the Government is not the solution. A new balance can be found provided that the highest wages are paid, according to the fundamental principle that everyone contributes according to his or her means and receives according to his or her needs. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to raise social contributions on the highest wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u145	Amendment No 476 by Mr Olivier Véran is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u146	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 90, 97, 104, 171, 184, 206, 264 and 321. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u147	The Republican Group has not proposed many amendments to this text, but we do want to do so. Indeed, it was essential that the Veil Act of 1994 should be respected, i.e. that the loss of revenue caused by the Government's policy should be compensated for by social security. Moreover, I repeat, this is what the report of the High Council for the Financing of Social Protection – everyone knows Mr Libault – calls for: any loss of revenue must be compensated to the nearest euro. This principle is also reflected in the 2005 Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws, which I defended at the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u148	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u149	Yes! I was already there, you weren't. It's true that I'm a little older than you... You're lucky, from this point of view. In any event, you must listen to us, minister: we would like paragraphs 9 to 12 of section 3 to be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u150	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u151	It marks the attachment of the group IUD, Act and Independent to the principle laid down by the Veil law – the opposite would be surprising. It also aims to draw your attention to the human aspect of the provisions of Article 3 – even though the financial aspect has been mentioned above. This morning I chaired a joint administrative committee of a hospital in my area. We have referred to the kind of guilt felt not only by the beneficiaries of the emergency measures that we voted at the end of last year, but also by hospital staff, because of the momentum we have requested to achieve savings. Today, they feel that these savings measures and the efforts made are in vain or, in any case, cancelled by this non-compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u152	Amendment No 104 by Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon is being defended. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u153	Under Article 3, the deficit in 2020 is expected to be EUR 5.4 billion, when you announced a surplus of EUR 1.5 billion before the yellow vest crisis. This will have serious consequences for the various branches of social security. Thus, the family branch, to which I am particularly attentive, should have had a surplus of 700 million euros in 2020, but it risks finally facing a deficit of 609 million euros, which condemns any measure in favour of family policy – I am thinking in particular of the payment of the birth premium before the arrival in the world of the child that Mrs Elimas called for her wishes at the moment. It won't be tomorrow. While I've been fighting this fight for several years, I'm going to have to give it up by the force of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u154	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u155	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 184.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u156	This amendment is intended to reverse the Government's decision not to compensate social security for the cost of emergency measures adopted in response to the movement of yellow vests. It is nevertheless EUR 2.7 billion that will not go into the social security funds, in particular to feed the disease branch. However, the needs are growing in light of the aging population, the development of chronic diseases, and the current failures of our health care system. While derogations from compensation, which the Veil Act has laid down in principle, are possible, they must remain exceptional, all the more so in the face of the crisis in health facilities, and on the eve of two major reforms, that of pensions and that of dependency. It seems to us politically dangerous not to compensate for this loss of revenue in such a difficult context for our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u157	Amendment No 206 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended. Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 264.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u158	As legislators, we must establish rules and ensure that they are applied. Non-compensation is a departure from the rule that the legislator had given itself. Social security, whether family, health or retirement, is managed on a par. To build trust between each other, the rules must apply. The choice of non-compensation questions the trust that is given to partners who, together with the State, have managed social security with responsibility. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In the past, the effects of certain measures have not been compensated. In recent years, this practice had ceased to apply. The minister tells us that it does not change anything for the citizen. But I don't believe it. The French are committed to social security. The reduction of the social security gap promised to him was important to him. Social security is our common heritage. We want to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u159	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 321.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u160	I would also like to make a few arguments for this important debate. We are talking about EUR 2.6 billion here, but the total amount of social contribution exemptions is 66 billion. To use a somewhat trivial expression, it is the door open to all the windows: you start at 2 billion and a few, but the note can very quickly increase. I wanted to highlight this danger. Then, while you have profoundly changed the funding arrangements for social security, your choice introduces a deep doubt about the commitments you are making. Usually, when such changes are made, the Government undertakes to compensate for the euro. So – to take another subject, that of the housing tax – you told the mayors that the loss of profits would be compensated "to the euro the euro". But, a few years later, it is possible to return to his words and to grant himself some exceptions to the principle of compensation which comes to grips with the original pact. It's not serious. Generally speaking, this raises doubts about your policy. Finally, once the reports you have commissioned have highlighted deficits – this is the case with the report of the Pension Guidance Board recently – you will use the argument to say that the resources are not sufficient to finance what was planned. On the contrary, I believe that social security must be equipped to meet the needs and challenges. Exemptions run counter to this will, especially if they are not compensated. Since this amendment is a little more precise, I invite you to make the right decision by adopting it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u162	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u164	We discussed this subject at length at first reading, but I would not like the Government's silence to be interpreted by national representation as contempt for the arguments put forward by several groups. First, it was expected that the measures taken in December 2018, in large part, would not be compensated. However, the Assembly adopted them, including you, Mr Door – sorry to say so. With regard to the desocialisation of overtime, which the Economic and Social Emergency Measures Act, known as MUES, had only accelerated implementation, it had been stated from the outset that it would not give rise to compensation. Perhaps it was a mistake then, but you passed the law in these terms. So there is no "wolf" in the non-compensation, if you pass me the expression. Secondly, the Government committed itself to the rapporteur-general and to your Assembly to take stock in the coming months of social security compensation. Of the 17 billion euros that the measures taken at the end of the major debate cost, 3 billion are financed by social security, the rest by the state – so social security is far from bearing the greatest share of the burden. Mr Dharréville has the merit of constancy, as often the Communists, in whom ideological coherence has at least one pedagogical virtue, which, I believe, allows us to debate with great mutual respect. The fact of fighting, as he does, against contribution relief seems to me more consistent than attacking non-compensation – we have already had the opportunity to talk about it. Finally, everyone fears the difficulties that might arise. As I recall, more than half of the EUR 5 billion deficit is due to the slowdown in economic growth, not to the non-compensation of about 2 billion. I say it in all friendship, Mrs Bagarry, we cannot say that social security is our common good, and that the rest would not be: the State is also our common good. We have to make up for it somewhere. Everyone is very attached to social security, everyone has a heart and wants contributions to pay social protection and our pensions. [[Julien Borowczyk applauds]] I would like to stress this, especially since all the speakers have claimed their commitment to the balance of accounts. During the discussion of the finance bill, this commitment was less clear. Tomorrow, when pensions are mentioned, I hope that the argument of the balance between income and social expenditure will remain admissible and that the same spirit of responsibility will prevail in both the Assembly and the Senate. If deficits are no longer acceptable for social security accounts, they should not be more acceptable for pensions. Thus, when it comes to pensions, we will have to hold a speech of responsibility and find a way to balance the plan, regardless of the solution advocated: a reduction in pensions, an increase in contributions or a change in the age of departure – because you can take the problem in every direction, these are the only levers. Some people claimed during the presidential election campaign that they would not change anything and eventually changed their minds because reality remembered them. I repeat, if the deficit is bad for social security, it is bad for pensions too. We discussed the issue of non-compensation at length at first reading. The Government undertook to shed light on the matter, in collaboration with the rapporteur-general and the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs. I note that those who have sinned a lot blame others for their unrighteous behavior. This is often the case with Fouquier-Tinville. This budget is sincere. It is affected by the measures of the MUES law – as we have said and are assuming – and by the weaker economic growth than expected. We will no doubt have the opportunity to return to this sudden interest in budgetary balance, which is not so evident on other matters that concern the nation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u165	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 207 and 322. Amendment No 207 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 322.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u166	The aim of this withdrawal amendment is to impose an obligation on the State to submit any non-compensation measures to the social security funds for their opinion. There is a contract between the State and social security which it would be useful to formalise. We do not want such decisions to be imposed on the social security funds by trampling on what remains of social dialogue, while it deserves to be reinvigorated. This is a minimal, common-sense proposal: if the State is forced not to compensate, it engages in a genuine dialogue with social security bodies. It would still be the least of all things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u168	This dialogue exists and the views of social security bodies are sought. Your amendment is satisfied because the PLFSS gives rise to a vote every year...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u169	But you don't respect him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u170	The vote is not binding. Either we consider it up to the social security funds to draw up the budget, and in this case we could all go to dinner or work on other issues because Parliament would no longer have any role in the examination and adoption of the PLFSS, or we accept the idea of a non-compliant vote – it has been in existence for a long time and has taken place again this year. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u172	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u173	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u174	For the moment, this vote is purely decorative and the amendment is intended to remedy it. It's a different conception of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u175	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u176	Article 4 aims to raise the threshold for the triggering of the safeguard clause for turnover of reimbursable medicinal products in 2019 from 0.5 % to 1 %. After lowering it to 0.5 per cent last year, which we opposed, you retroactively reinstate the threshold to 1 per cent, which is quite logical. I assume that, after the Strategic Council of Health Industries held in July, the Prime Minister heard the difficulties of the French pharmaceutical industry, whose growth rate is extremely low. Hope you show the same wisdom on Article 16!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u177	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 106, 209 and 490, to delete Article 4. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u178	The pharmaceutical industry and its leaders are doing well. Olivier Brandicourt was still recently, despite a falling salary, one of the best paid bosses of CAC 40. Bastamag reveals that in 2018, the Sanofi Group paid its shareholders close to €5 billion in dividends and share buybacks, representing 114% of its profits! Again this year, dividends are on the rise. Sanofi is much more focused on the remuneration of its shareholders than on the research and development of new products. Despite growing turnover, the company has, over the last ten years, dismissed some 1,800 employees. In 2019, several hundred jobs were eliminated in support functions, among salesmen and, once again, in research and development. This policy weighs heavily on innovation capabilities and on employment in the enterprise. It would therefore be wise for the House to ask the industrialists to rebalance their ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u179	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 209.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u180	The Government has decided to reduce in 2019 the amount levied on the turnover of laboratories when it exceeds the targets set by the legislator. With the reduction of this tax, no less than EUR 60 million will be levied on these companies this year. This large-scale tax gift is given to laboratories at a time when the pressure is particularly strong on the public hospital and the housing facilities for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – who are experiencing serious difficulties. In doing so, we send a very bad signal to health professionals and our fellow citizens: we tell them that we cannot give them more, even though there is enough for some. That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u181	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 490, which also seeks to delete Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u182	You're doing things a little backwards. You come back to a good measure you took last year – consider these words as a compliment on the past, especially since you probably feel that I am not addressing you enough... For our part, we propose to maintain it. Indeed, you give up a potential recipe, which benefits the drug industry. The Sanofi Group, which has been mentioned, is not the only one concerned, but it is emblematic: it achieved a net profit of 6 billion euros in 2018 and has just announced a social plan covering 300 jobs. Not only does it size in the workforce on the production side, it is also size in the workforce of its research activities and decides to abandon certain areas of research that are crucial to our country. It's not serious! There is no need to make an additional gift to the drug industry, especially since this gift will have no effect, and no consideration is provided for reorienting this industry. Between 2006 and 2019, the Sanofi Group has eliminated 3,000 jobs in research and development, which is considerable. The reason for this is not the amount of taxes paid to the State, since the group pays dividends to its shareholders in a fairly lenient manner. We therefore propose to maintain the system as it exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u183	What is the committee's opinion on these three deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u184	We do not make a tax gift to drug companies. In our country, there are not many industrial sectors whose turnover trends are capped in advance at a certain level! To the extent that the demand for medicines is solved by social security, thus by national solidarity, it has been possible to introduce a regulatory clause which does not exist elsewhere. It is not at all a tax gift: we simply apply a complex rule of rebasing and basing compared to the turnover achieved the previous year, taking into account the discounts and discounts agreed between distributors, wholesalers-partitioners, pharmacists, etc. With the rate we planned last year for the safeguard clause, we almost totally deprived the pharmaceutical industry of the result of the evolution of its turnover, even as the population and the need for medicines increased. The pharmaceutical industry contributes EUR 1 billion each year to the "war effort" of medically controlled health care expenditure, although it does not weigh an equivalent share in this expenditure. It is not at all a tax gift, nor a renunciation to regulate bad behaviour, if any, of bosses of large companies. We only consider it inappropriate to set a ceiling too low. In order to avoid a debate like this every year, it would be interesting to determine the evolution of turnover not in percentages, but in euros. This would make us less sensitive to how complex basing-based rules apply from year to year. I have an unfavorable opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u185	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 107, 210 and 323, to delete Article 6. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u186	In the field of health, 2019 was marked by an unprecedented social movement, which denounced the austerity in which doctors, nurses, caregivers and caregivers are forced to work. This affects all branches, as urban care is also in tension, especially in subdenses. Without being able to treat themselves by consulting their doctor, patients go to the hospital. As a result, emergencies have to cope with an unexpected influx. This situation of tension, which is also found in EHPADs and services for persons with disabilities, is the result of austere policy and pressure on social security finances. It is essential to rethink this system in its entirety. In view of the stakes, the proposals made in this PLFSS are scandalous. France calls for the abolition of ONDAM, which favours this austere policy. For all these reasons, we refuse to validate the correction of ONDAM. That is why we propose the deletion of Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u187	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 210.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u188	The presentation of this deletion amendment is an opportunity for me to comment on ONDAM. First of all, it is necessary to reform the ONDAM, because it does not say anything about the evolution of the provision of care the following year, nor about the workload of hospital staff or that of remuneration; It is not known whether or not the level of investment will be sufficient to enable staff to carry out their assigned missions. For national education, we have all this information; In the health field, we have none, and that is missing. A plan of several hundred million euros had been announced, particularly for emergencies. However, it appears from the second tariff circular, which I have examined, that there are no new appropriations for hospitals; There are only credit thaws. Given the natural evolution of the wage bill and the average increase in the number of acts over the last three years – due to the increase in the population and its ageing, but also to the management of new pathologies thanks to advances in medicine – we need a substantially higher ONDAM than you propose in the PLFSS for 2020. To the extent that the announced means are not additional means and that ONDAM does not say anything about what people are experiencing, we propose the deletion of Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u189	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 323.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u190	We, too, believe that ONDAM is an inadequate tool for dealing with the issues at stake. We have had the opportunity to say so on many occasions. In this case, we are proposed to validate ONDAM for 2019, while its application has aggravated the situation to the point where we have reached today: a considerable, if not unprecedented, social movement in the hospital sector. It is not serious to ask us to validate what has contributed to overflowing the vase. You will of course tell us that it is now too late to correct the shot. For our part, we believe that it is never too late and that we can always improve what was decided last year. In any case, we do not want to validate the ONDAM for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u191	What is the committee's opinion on these three deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u192	He's unfavorable. You are right to recall, Mr Dharréville, that their adoption would have no consequences: it would be a posthumous decision, a return to the future... By the time the text is promulgated, ONDAM will have been fully consumed, and we will have passed the following year. ONDAM has been respected since the government decided that it was responsible for respecting it. Previously, high ONDAMs were voted, increasing by 5, 6 or 7 per cent; We said it was great, because we were giving money to the hospital. However, in those years, the social security gap was vastly widening. Thus, the last time ONDAM increased by more than 5%, the social security deficit increased by EUR 24 billion in a single year. And who was this debt left to? To the next generations. We started paying off the social security debt in 2010. The effort made on this date – which we have welcomed – has been continued and even increased during the previous quinquennium. Successively exercising the responsibilities, the right and the left decided that it was time to put an end to inapplicable and unimplemented budgets that would increase the deficit to the detriment of future generations. We remain in this logic responsible for the repayment of social debt thanks to the CADES, the Social Debt Depreciation Fund. Normally, this debt will be fully paid by 2024. The ONDAM voted are now consistently respected year after year. This does not mean that they are sufficient, but we must not believe that ten years ago there was a breakdown from the budgetary point of view, that we suddenly decided to cut off the food. Previously, we were digging up the debt; Now we are doing it, and we can look to the future knowing that our social protection system is strong over the long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u193	I put to the vote the whole of the second part of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u194	We are now dealing with the third part of the bill, concerning the income and social security balance provisions for fiscal year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u195	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u196	Article 7 is intended to extend the Macron bonus introduced last December as part of the draft law on economic and social emergency measures. Companies can thus pay their employees receiving less than EUR 3600 per month a premium of up to EUR 1000, which is not subject to social levies or taxes. However, you propose in Article 7 that the renewal of the premium be subject to the implementation of an interest agreement, which obviously risks reducing the number of employees who receive the premium. This would significantly reduce the scope of the measure decided last year in the midst of the yellow vest crisis. In other words, in the midst of a crisis, you are trying to extinguish the fire, but, a few months later, you are going back. I leave it to those who intend to demonstrate on 5 December to assess this decision. At first reading, the majority had adopted, in agreement with the Government, an amendment which was somewhat inadequate in its drafting. This provision has been corrected by the Senate, which has introduced an exception in favour of employment support institutions and services – ESAT – and associations. The Senate amendment was taken over by the rapporteur-general, which made things a little clearer. However, the requirement for an interest agreement may jeopardize the payment of the premium to a large number of employees. That is why the Republican Group will vote against Article 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u197	I have before me five amendments, Nos 98, 185, 99, 186 and 190, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 98 and 185 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 99, 186 and 190. On identical amendments Nos 98 and 185, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u198	At the same time, I will defend Amendment No 99, which is identical, except that it provides for a different threshold. In line with our group's explanations of vote at first reading and my speech during the general discussion earlier, we propose that we return, for companies with fewer than 11 employees, to the obligation to implement an interest agreement. The exchanges that we have had on the ground, both on the ground, since the vote on this provision at first reading reveal that companies with two to eleven employees will have great difficulty in proposing a mechanism of interest, notwithstanding the simplifications decided by the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts, which offers a kind of self-interest kit, with a form to download. TPEs and SMEs have told me of such difficulties. The application of the measure would effectively exclude employees of these undertakings from the benefit of the exceptional premium which we had subscribed to. One can even consider that there will be a breach of equality between employees who will no longer be able to access this bonus and those who will continue to receive it because their company already offers a mechanism of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u199	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 185. I didn't see you any more, my dear colleague, because you've changed places...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u200	Our group still does not have a place within the Chamber. I simply came closer to my place to participate in the public election, Mr. Chairman. Article 7 seeks to make the payment of the exceptional premium conditional on the implementation of an interest agreement within the undertaking. The purpose of this amendment is to remove this obligation for companies with fewer than 11 employees. We fear that employees in small businesses will once again be excluded from a system of support for purchasing power. Such a restriction seems inappropriate to us. A first assessment, drawn up last March by the Central Agency for Social Security Organizations (ACOSS), shows that 29.8% of enterprises with more than 2000 employees paid a premium, compared with 9.7% of enterprises with less than 10 employees. With regard to the principle, we share the desire to encourage the establishment of self-interest agreements within companies, as we understand the underlying and laudable aim of sharing value between employers and employees. Nevertheless, the primary objective remains support for purchasing power; However, the existence of a pre-interest condition of agreement severely restricts this support. Employers in small structures are not sufficiently encouraged to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u201	In the joint debate, we come to the discussion of the three identical amendments, Nos 99, 186 and 190. On these three amendments, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 99 by Mr Paul Christophe was defended at the same time as Amendment No 98. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u202	In the same way as Amendment No 185 was intended to remove the condition for the payment of the exceptional premium for enterprises with fewer than 11 employees, Amendment No 186 concerns enterprises with less than 50 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u203	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u204	As I explained in my speech on the article, we hope that the payment of the exceptional premium will be on the same scale in 2020 as in 2019. In order to achieve this, we propose to allow companies with fewer than fifty employees to pay it without having implemented an interest agreement. Such a condition would considerably reduce the scope of the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u205	What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u206	Unfavorable opinion. The debate has already taken place at first reading, and we have adopted amendments aimed at freeing non-profit foundations and associations from the obligation to set up a self-interest agreement. I will support Amendment No 134 at a later stage, which does the same for ESATs. I will quote two figures: companies with fewer than ten employees are at the initiative of distributing the highest average premium – 543 euros for the months of December 2018 and January 2019; Only 13% of enterprises with ten or fewer employees have an interest agreement in place. It is in the interest of employees that such agreements can be signed, following the law of 22 May 2019 on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE – action plan for the growth and transformation of enterprises. Simplification measures are therefore proposed: a turnkey kit, an interest agreement valid for one year instead of three, and a whole range of other devices in the same spirit. The idea is that all employees of all companies in France will be able to benefit from an interest agreement tomorrow: this represents more purchasing power and better participation in the life of the company. These measures are in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u208	Once it is not customary, I do not share Mr Christophe's opinion, nor his argument. It is not based on an opposition to a good distribution between capital and labour – which would not be consistent with your principles, with those of the Gaullist family in general, or with what remains of it. In the present case, such opposition would be tantamount to favouring capital; This is not the solution that you are advocating since I think that each of you is involved in a fair distribution between capital and labour, whether it is through the procedures of self-interest, as defined by the CAPTE law, or through the exemption of the social package. The Government and the majority have done much more in this sense than all previous Governments, in particular, I believe, through very interesting action to force a better distribution between capital and labour. If, on the other hand, your proposal aims at simplification, know that we are already on the table, especially for small businesses. The Minister of Economy has committed himself: nothing is simpler now than following the procedure; We can do it in just a few clicks, be it a bakery, a restaurant, a TPE. I am elected like you, I also inquired: small companies, which are the majority in France, do not encounter any problems. There is no reason why the apprentice baker or restaurant waitress should not participate in the interest in capital, in the distribution between capital and labour, in the same way as an employee of Michelin or Auchan. Your argument therefore bothers me, because simplification is obvious; Everyone can follow the steps in a few clicks – you can do it from your bench, Mr.Lurton. I know that you are not concerned, and I know, in any case, that Mr Christophe is not concerned either, but if the intention is to fight against a better distribution between capital and labour thanks to interest, as the philosophy of the PACTE law requires, the argument is in fact not admissible. I am proud to belong to a Government that defends this old idea; I am proud that the majority support it, including for smaller businesses. The condition for achieving this was the simplification of procedures, but it seems normal that the premium should be subject to interest, otherwise there would be a purely boon effect that would not be acceptable. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I believe that the House should reject these amendments, because there is no reason why the apprentice baker and the restaurant waitress should be deprived of the premium proposed by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u209	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u210	Last year, minister, could parliamentarians, yes or no, give their collaborators a bonus? Yes. Many did. But this year they will not be able to do so: the collaborators will not sign an agreement of interest with their parliamentarians. You are, therefore, already creating a situation in which some will be able to benefit from the premium and others will not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u211	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u212	[[Smile]] You're not a SME yet, Mr. Door!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u213	Last year, we could!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u214	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u215	I confess that I will abstain from these amendments. I believe that a company with eleven employees should still be distinguished from a company with fifty employees; Their approach is not the same. Every three years, measures to subscribe to the capital of the companies are voted in favour of the interest: we find that it does not work. We're building a gas plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u216	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u217	For these companies, it would be a guarantee of simplification to allow the payment of this premium unconditionally – even if the declaration of the agreement is simplified on the Internet. The approach of self-interest and the association of employees with capital is special. The craft companies show this: other criteria are at stake. I find it a shame to complicate things: the bonus is good for everyone, for small and large companies alike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u218	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u219	I understand that there are budgetary realities and that you are anxious to avoid the effects of a boon. Nevertheless, we should look objectively at what distinguishes a small business from a company with more than fifty employees: it is not the same thing. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] The PACTE law was in the right direction, we voted for good measures. We mustn't stop on the way. Sometimes you have to know how to let go a little bit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u220	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u221	Thank you, Mr. President, for letting our voice speak. As I said earlier about the premium you are offering for caregivers, the real question is wage increases. This is a demand increasingly relayed by trade union organisations, but also by various political forces, including your majority, where some believe that capital should be more involved in the effort, and work should be better paid. But the increases you propose through bonuses are one-off – it's one shot, as they say. In addition, premiums do not contribute to the pension system because they are desocialized. These are not wage increases, but bonuses distributed according to the goodwill of the entrepreneurs. This does not meet the requirements which should be those of our country in terms of pay for work; It is not up to the efforts to be made. You refer to "yellow vests" as answers to their requests; But they never asked for bonuses: they always asked for wage increases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u222	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 98 and 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u223	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 13 Against 30
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u224	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 99, 186 and 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u225	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 13 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u226	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 134 of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u227	A similar amendment was tabled in the Senate by Ms.Véronique Guillotin. It aims to exempt ESATs, which pay only marginally premiums for interest, from the preconditions for the benefit of the social exemption. The aim is to pay premiums to as many disabled workers as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u228	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 135 of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u229	This is an amendment to the legal security of the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u231	[[Smile]] He's in favor. This amendment gives me an opportunity to make an important point, which I will elaborate on in the light of the unanimous request of the House. The Government is in favour of a provision exempting certain non-profit associations from the establishment of an interest agreement to benefit from the exemption. However, contrary to the objective sought, the amendment as drafted could be interpreted as excluding associations from the right to pay the premium. On the other hand, and that's where the point is of importance...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u232	That's where the bone is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u233	[[Smile]] [[Same movements]] "There's no propeller, alas! This is where the bone is."I see, Mr.Russel, that you know the great classics, from Karl Marx to Louis de Funès: I knew that Pif Gadget allowed the men of the place of Colonel Fabien... Roussel to have culture. This amendment allows me to specify certain conditions under which companies may benefit from the exemption. The article provides that they must be covered by an interest agreement on the day the premium is paid – a condition necessary to secure the benefit of the exemption. However, in order not to delay the payment of exceptional premiums, undertakings whose agreement has just expired, but which are engaged in negotiations to renew it, may pay the premium; Of course, an agreement covering the period of payment will have to be validly concluded and deposited. I hope that I have made clear the will of the legislator. Everyone is able to verify that there will be no effect on board either for those who will receive the premium or for those who were covered by an interest agreement: among the employees or staff concerned, no one will be faced with a legal vacuum. If the amendment is adopted, there will be no need to amend the law. Thanks to the explanations I have just given and to the record, there will be no hole in the racket, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u234	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 211 and 325. On these identical amendments Nos 211 and 325, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 211.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u235	It aims to restore social contributions and contributions from the exceptional premium. I have already had the opportunity to explain this: a desocialisation of the premium without compensation is equivalent to a reduction in the wage, even though the Government claims to want to increase the purchasing power of the French. Moreover, the desocialisation of the premium results in a loss of income for social protection, a loss that must be compensated. Finally, the fairly well-established evaluation evidence at our disposal shows that in the first quarter of 2019 the premium payment was reflected in a decrease in the wage bill, which had previously seen a continuous increase – evidence that employers have largely substituted the premium payment for an increase in wages. This substitution – or bounty – effect leads us to doubt the validity of this bonus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u236	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 325.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u237	[[Smile]] Same amendment, identical arguments. The SOC and GDR MEPs manage to re-establish the joint programme to defend employees and the world of work! When it comes to contributions and wages, we speak with the same voice. In fact, the last significant increase in SMIC – a 10% increase – dates back to 1981, which shows that we did good things when we were in power together. In the name of the principles recalled by Mr Vallaud, we propose to resocialise the exceptional premium, if we do not get an increase in wages. The adoption of the amendments will also make it possible to finance our pension system. That's to say they're up to date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u238	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u239	It won't surprise anyone, but it appears that it is easier for you to agree when you find yourself in opposition than when you are in the majority. It's much easier to show good intentions when you're not in charge!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u240	[[Smile]] You'll measure it soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u241	We're moving!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u242	In 2019, the exceptional premium, which involved five million employees working in more than 400,000 establishments, allowed the allocation of more than 2 billion euros. It cannot therefore be denied that it had a major effect on the purchasing power of the French. I remind you of my answer at first reading: we will assess the consequences of the premium. Did it create a boon effect? Has it had a real, long-term impact on the payroll? Is there a loss of social security contributions? Let's wait for the numbers that will fall in the spring. They'll jump us in the face, if I may say so. Next year, we will be able to take stock. I express an unfavorable opinion on the identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u243	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u244	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u245	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u246	Mr General, the committee has conducted several hearings, which you have attended as I have. They make it possible to draw up a fairly clear assessment of the effects of the exceptional premium, which I have presented to you. On another point, Mr Roussel stressed the importance of financing our pension system. If the Government artificially digs its deficit, it will not be able to invoke it then to justify measures of savings...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u247	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 211 and 325.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u248	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 48 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 6 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u249	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 518.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u250	I am the spokesman for Thierry Benoit, the first signatory of the amendment, who aims to draw your attention to the importance of increasing the purchasing power of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u251	Amendment No 108 by Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u252	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 109 and 491. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u253	Respect for human dignity is not an accessory value. However, as a result of the hyper-financialization of our economic system, employees seem to be only adjustment variables in shareholders' accounts. Due to poor working conditions, low pay or aggressive managerial practices, many companies have a significant turnover. When this turnover is excessive, it is justified to impose on companies a malus on employers' contributions, which would make it possible to compensate financially for the effects of taking care of the employees in arrears. On the other hand, the introduction of a bonus system seems inappropriate: if the wrong companies are to be punished, those who respect the rules do not have to be rewarded. In the area of road safety, does the Government intend, according to the same reasoning, to reward drivers who have not received a ticket for a year? Definitely not. We therefore propose to maintain the malus for the wrong-doing companies, but to remove the bonus for those who only respect the rules and treat their employees humanely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u254	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 491.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u255	Under Article 8, an employer's general reduction in social contributions on wages below 1.6 SMIC will apply without taking into account the effect of the bonus-malus on the employer's unemployment premium introduced as part of the unemployment insurance reform. If the introduction of a malus is justified in order to punish those employers who are in a state of disqualification, the payment of a bonus does not seem justified. We therefore propose by this amendment to retain only the malus on unemployment contributions to punish failing employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u256	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u257	Unfavorable opinion. We want to use the carrot and the stick; You prefer the stick and the stick.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u258	[[Smile]] They prefer sickle and hammer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u259	The bonus rewards virtuous companies, who make little use of short contracts and have improved their practices and processes. Both the Government and the majority wish to encourage them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u260	Amendment No 110 by Mrs Caroline Fiat is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u261	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 212.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u262	We propose to set a ceiling, to avoid the effects on the edge that we have mentioned several times. It would be detrimental for social security, given its situation and the current context, to become a debtor of certain virtuous enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u263	Mr Olivier Véran has the floor to support Amendment No. 416.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u264	It is an amendment of precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u265	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u266	At first reading, we adopted an amendment whereby seasonal self-employed workers, ski instructors, guides and attendants will be able to contribute no longer on a flat-rate basis, but due to the proportion of their activity, which will allow dual-employed persons, pensioners or students, to strengthen existing staff, in the event of peak activity, particularly during school holidays. However, Amendment No 349, which will be called for at the moment, tends to reverse this major step forward, which is particularly important for the world of tourism. What happens if this amendment is adopted? We will discourage these people from working, we will lack staff, we will refuse clients, we will discontent them, after which they will probably go on vacation abroad, which I do not believe is our objective. In addition, there is likely to be hidden work. Foreign monitors will also be used, which will not pay dues. Finally, for the staff concerned if they are not discouraged, in particular students or pensioners with modest pensions, the adoption of the amendment will lead to a loss of revenue, which will be a social nonsense. [[Applause on several benches]] The Government had pledged to work on the issue last year. Until now, however, nothing has been done. I would remind you, Minister, that the measure concerns a few thousand people, who can bring happiness to tens or hundreds of thousands, even millions of tourists in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u267	I call Mr Borowczyk to support Amendment No. 349.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u268	The amendment has just been the subject of a wonderful teasing! If we delete the article adopted at first reading, as we propose, we will return to the system which is currently in force and which has never prevented tourism. [[Smile]] However, we are not unaware of the problem in this sector. The example of ski instructors is often cited. I have a station myself in my constituency. I guess I didn't take their classes long enough, since I was only able to get one star... The difficulty is that the scope of the article, which is very broad, is not limited, and by far, to their profession, so that there is a risk of inequities in many professional sectors. I would add that seasonal activity is difficult to determine. That is why I propose, by this amendment, to delete the article, and to make a commitment to work on the specific situation of ski instructors in the context of pension reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u269	We were promised last year!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u271	The situation of ski instructors is the winter chestnut tree! We've been talking about this every year for eight or nine years. In fact, at first reading, we have already discussed the complex tax systems inherent in this profession, whose professional costs may be much higher than the deductible share in a micro-entrepreneur scheme. Every year, we call for the system to be changed and every year I express an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments tabled in this direction by my colleagues and friends in the mountains. Elected in Grenoble, you can imagine that my riding has a few ski resorts. I am very aware of the complexity of the current system: a student who wishes to devote two weeks of holidays to teaching skiing is forced to contribute to a complex system, not necessarily favorable, even if he receives hardly more than 4000 euros per year and that, to start the season, he has to pay professional costs that can exceed all his earnings! I speak without passion because, at first reading, I called for a vote against the Government. For the time being, I will give you a formal reply: at first reading, we were beaten by Members who, in my view, were informed of the proposed arrangements. In fairness, when it met under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the committee rejected the deletion amendment. I am sticking to that decision. I agree with you, Mr Borowczyk, but the debate took place at first reading, and the National Assembly, in its wisdom, decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u272	Do you therefore give an opinion which is unfavourable to the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u273	Yes, Mr President, the committee rejected this amendment when it met under Rule 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u275	The idea is not bad, but its application would be a problem, Mr Borowczyk is not wrong. Let us pause for a moment on this point, the discussion is interesting. Mr Rolland, the scheme mainly concerns ski instructors, but not only, since the measure covers all seasonal self-employed workers. Even if there is no ski resort in the riding that elected me – Mount Halluin does not count – I am a friend of the mountain, like many in this Chamber. That does not prevent good legislating. The difficulty relates to the definition of " ancillary activities". For years, it has been true that the Government and the rapporteur-general have rejected a measure on this point until the following year, because the issue is complicated. It turns out that a pension bill will be considered in four and a half months. The contributions will then be updated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u276	It has nothing to do with retreats!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u277	Yes, since these are pension contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u278	No, that's another question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u279	Mrs. Dalloz, let the minister finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u280	The problem is that no one knows what the pension bill will be about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u281	Mr. Dumont, what applies to Mrs. Dalloz also applies to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u282	[[Smile]] Mr. Dumont, when we look at the pension bill, we are very likely to talk about pensions, including pension contributions. I even think I have some certainty about it. The Government gives a favourable opinion on the amendment. It is based on the fact that the term " ancillary activities" is not operational today. That being said, Parliament will do what it wishes to do. On the other hand, I would remind you, Mr.Rolland, you who belong to the Republicans Group, that if the Senate had agreed to discuss the PLFSS, it could have amended this article or even adopted it as it stands. He didn't. As such, it is sometimes good to debate and adopt the texts. By not doing so, one can also serve one's own interests. It is now up to the Assembly to decide. I repeat: the Government is in favour of the project on the substance, but not on the form, since the definition of an ancillary activity is problematic, and the scheme does not only concern friends of the mountain. The Government supports the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure, only two statements are allowed for each amendment. Three hands rose almost at the same time earlier, so I will allow only three sets of words, those of Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, and then of Mr Boris Vallaud and Mr Joël Giraud. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u284	At first reading, Members sitting on all benches agreed to put an end to an inequity, which only dates back to 2016, I want to make that clear. Casual self-employed persons, who exercise only one or two weeks a year, as ski instructors and mountain guides for example, in addition to their main activity, in addition, during holiday periods, pay a flat-rate pension contribution of EUR 500. This does not give them additional rights, since they already pay contributions for their main business. It's an injustice. If, after working a week in reinforcement and earning 900 euros, you have to pay a sum of 500 euros, so choose not to work. This is a real problem for the ski resorts, and for all the activity in the mountain area, as my colleague Vincent Rolland pointed out. Article 8b does not introduce any inequity towards self-employed persons engaged in their main activity. Indeed, it provides for the contribution to be proportional to income, starting from the first euro. I would add that the scheme concerns very few people, only self-employed workers working one to two weeks in the year in addition to their main activity, or pensioners. Doctors would certainly be potentially involved, but not seasonal casual workers, who are mainly wage earners – I am thinking of the case of wine farms. The population concerned is very limited. A few weeks from the opening of the season, everyone was very happy with this beautiful advance...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Bonnivard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u286	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Don't come back on this, Minister, I beg you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u287	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u288	I will not go back to the details of the provisions adopted at first reading. They are being re-examined because the Senate has rejected the PLFSS for 2020 as a whole. Otherwise, Mr. Borowczyk, under the funnel rule, you could not have tabled your amendment, which responds to a request from the Government and of which you are the only signatory. A debate took place at the first reading. It was not the first – the rapporteur-general even spoke of chestnut trees. Indeed, every year for three years, the provision has been debated with great precision and rigour. It is not a question of exempting contributions, but of calculating them in proportion to working time, in order to replace a lump sum whose amount is absolutely dissuasive. It is a matter of loyalty to Parliament. The author of the amendment should withdraw it, out of respect for the debate that took place at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u289	Mr Joël Giraud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u290	My remarks are in line with Mr Vallaud's. I am one of those who voted in favour of the amendment that introduced Article 8b into the PLFSS at first reading. Why the vote? This has already been explained, but I repeat: currently, while some work only a few days, they have to pay a lump sum contribution, the amount of which exceeds the income they earn from their work. Article 8b makes it possible to return to a system of due proportion contributions, as Mr Vallaud has just pointed out. It is the only one that seems to me to be legitimate for this type of activity. Whole territories live under a seasonality regime, that's how it is. Almost 99% of seasonal workers are employees, but 1% are self-employed; At present, seasonal workers have rights, self-employed workers do not. That is why the amendment was adopted by a large majority by Members sitting on all the benches of the House – it was not just the result of lobbying. Minister, you are saying that the definition of the "accessory nature" of the activity is problematic. However, it is precise: an activity whose income is less than the first step, i.e. the threshold of 4659 euros per year, is incidental.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u291	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u292	Similarly, seasonality is defined in law. Otherwise, seasonal fixed-term contracts would not exist. It is therefore clear that in law the article "turns" perfectly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the MODEM group. – Mr Benoit Potterie also applauds]] Besides, I do not want to put palm oil on the fire, but on the shape, to bring in through the window a disposition that a sovereign assembly has brought out through the door, it poses a problem to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u293	Mrs Dubie, Mr Roussel, I have already said that there are many new requests to speak on this amendment, but, in compliance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I cannot accept them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u294	I call Mrs Stéphanie Atger to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u295	In their information report entitled "La filière audiovisuel : source d'opportunité et de visibilité pour les overseas", written on behalf of the overseas delegation of our assembly, my colleagues from French Polynesia, Maina Sage, and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, Stéphane Claireaux, have clearly identified and demonstrated the advantages of ultramarine territories for the filming of fictions or documentaries, whether it is their scenographic richness, their narrative potential, or their natural and cultural diversity. Under the impetus of the regions, audiovisual productions are gaining momentum. The development of the sector gives visibility and creates jobs. It does good to our economies while participating in the cultural influence of this other France, the overseas ones, in our respective geographical basins, but also at the national and international level. However, this promising momentum remains fragile. The cost of overseas labour weighs heavily on production and hinders the development and development of a future-filled sector. In order to reinforce the attractiveness of ultramarine territories as a filming ground, the amendment aims to reintegrate the audiovisual production sector into the "enhanced competitiveness" scheme of the exemption scales introduced by LODEOM, as was voted for in the press at first reading of the PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u297	An effort was made at first reading to exempt LODEOM from the scheme at a cost of EUR 40 million. It is in addition to a scheme that costs EUR 971 million each year; It's not nothing. A balance has been reached, since we have integrated the press sector into the scale of "enhanced competitiveness", and raised the threshold of exemption from the simple competitiveness scale to two SMICs, whose audiovisual production fully benefits. Efforts have already been made this year, a balance has been struck. The committee is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u298	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u299	Article 8d is the result of an amendment adopted with the votes of Members of the Republican, Socialist and Related Groups and Freedoms and Territories. It makes it possible to raise the threshold from which a declining rate applies, in the "LODEOM" scheme for the exemption of employers' social security contributions and the point of exit of this scheme, which concerns the overseas sector, in particular the press sector. A declining rate would no longer apply from 1.7 SMICs but from 2.3 SMICs, the exit point, currently 2.7 SMICs, would be increased to 3 SMICs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u300	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 326, which deletes Rule 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u301	Article 9 provides for an exemption from social contributions – one more – on the specific allowance in the event of a contractual breakdown in the civil service. This provision is part of the reform resulting from the Act of 6 August on the transformation of the civil service, which opens the possibility of contractual breaks in the public sector. We were opposed to such a possibility, which detracts from the status of civil servants, and we therefore call for the abolition of the measure of exemption from compensation, which encourages the signing of treaty breaks, and for the loss of new income to social security, which is not compensated by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u302	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u303	The amendment aims to eliminate the non-compensation of the exemption from social contributions and contributions from the specific conventional break-up allowance in the civil service. This common sense amendment was adopted by the Senate. We call on the Government to respect this upper house vote. We have already discussed non-compensation at length. In view of the deficit in the social security budget, it is a measure of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u304	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u305	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion. You remember that I had called for a vote against the non-cognition scheme at first reading, but it was finally adopted. As was the case with the amendment on ski instructors, I prefer respect for the vote of the House at first reading. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u306	Amendment No. 536, as corrected by the Government, is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u307	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u308	We are in favour of Article 9 bis, introduced by amendment, by the Government, at first reading. It makes it possible to exclude the compensation received by a family caregiver as part of the disability compensation benefit – PCH – from the CSG and CRDS base – the widespread social contribution and the contribution to the reduction of social debt – as well as income tax. This is a good measure: it was not normal that the compensation paid by PCH recipients to their family carers should be subject to tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u309	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 136 of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u310	Inspired by the work of our colleagues in this chamber, the amendment proposes to grant, as of January 1, 2019, the social and tax exemption provided for in this section to the holders of human assistance in the PCH. A member of the opposition has just welcomed the progress of this mechanism; I hope that the House will vote in favour of its extension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u311	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-25-O1082.u312	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the bill on the financing of social security for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
