ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, on further reading, of the bill, as amended by the Senate, on business growth and transformation (No.1673, 1761).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u2	I would remind you that, at the request of the Government, we are considering, as a matter of priority, sections 44 to 54 of the bill, relating to public enterprises and break-up innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u3	Mr Boris Vallaud, first inscribed on Rule 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u4	We have three voting buttons on our desks, which correspond to three possible decisions. We will be able to approve the privatisation of the Aéroports de Paris – ADP – group, refuse it or abstain. It must be agreed that, under certain circumstances, when one knows only what to decide, forbearance is a convenient choice. However, this is not a possible choice with regard to the privatisation of Paris airports, on the basis of which, I know, a number of you, within the majority, are questioning. It is a decision that enshrines the future of the country, that enshrines the future of our national transport company, that enshrines the future of important planning projects in the francilian region. That is why there is no room for abstention on any bench. In 2022, some 120 million passengers will arrive at Paris airports. The ADP group is not a company like the others, it is a designer, an operator, a developer who has 6600 hectares of land – its possible privatisation would be without equivalent in Europe. Aéroports de Paris is a strategic undertaking because it is placed, I said, at the heart of all the major development projects of the francilian region, with the CDG-Express, with the metro line 17 of the Grand Paris, with Coeur-d'Orly and its business district of 15 hectares and its multimodal platform – all projects of national interest, of general interest. Aéroports de Paris is also at the heart of the strategic interests of the departments of the francilian region: the Val-d'Oise, the Seine-Saint-Denis, the Seine-et-Marne – with the airport of Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle –, the Val-de-Marne and the Essonne – with the airport of Orly. That is why the overwhelming majority of the elected representatives of this region, whether on the right or on the left, are opposed to this privatisation, for them a nonsense as much as a danger. Indeed, the Aéroports de Paris group is the first employment centre in the capital region, for the Francilians as well as for many inhabitants of the neighbouring regions. Aéroports de Paris is at the heart of the interests of the entire national territory by having in its hands the future of national services. Think that Heathrow Airport serves 190 destinations including only 10 interiors. You see the risk you pose to the future of land use planning. Indeed, if the number of runways cannot be multiplied, an airport chooses the type of aircraft that lands there and takes off: for it, an Airbus A380 with a very large number of passengers is more profitable than a regional transport aircraft – ATR – with a very limited number of seats. This is why local connections will be sacrificed. How, therefore, do I insist on not having an opinion on such a privatisation project? Worse than that, how do you get there? Could entrusting such national interests to private interests be offset by a financial transaction? We had the opportunity to assert it forcefully, Valérie Rabault for the Socialist and related group or representatives of other groups: it is a bad financial operation. This is the case first of all because you have in mind the idea of paying off a little of the national debt – oh, very little: 0.5% – even though the ADP share earns dividends whose rate of return is higher than the rate at which we borrow on the markets – i.e. at very low rates, or even, in certain circumstances, at negative rates. This is a bad transaction because ADP is a developing company, whose dividends, although you said, have increased for the past ten years. Over the past five years, the share price has increased by 160%, an increase that has not even been slowed down by the 2008 crisis. From a strict financial point of view and from a strict heritage point of view, this privatisation is all the more silly as you want to finance a fund for radical innovation for a derisory sum, 200 million euros, which do not even correspond to the cumulative amount of dividends of La Française des jeux and of Paris Airports in 2017. You want to create a tax on GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon: very well, let it hold and we welcome it. It will produce 450 million euros in the first year. So devote them to radical innovation. You have also considered an increasing return on this tax: that is to say, how much innovation would have to gain from it. The French will have lost control of the future of the ADP group without winning a cent. We are reproducing the scandal of the privatization of motorways. And it doesn't matter whether you're talking about privatization or concessions. The regulation you are planning is that of a very small perimeter. The public airport service is in fact the congruent portion. You claim that we are going to privatize a shopping centre or, as I heard earlier, the Chocolate House – admit that the National Manufacture of Chocolates and Cocoa would be a big mouth, if I dare to say so, but it is to joke with the rapporteur-general of the Special Committee. However, ADP is quite another thing: it is a strategic undertaking. I deliberately use the term because yesterday the Prime Minister himself had the caution to do so, adding that he was not very happy with the way the ADP group was managed. I answer him: therefore do your State shareholder work, your work as regulator. Observe the ranking of international airports: the top ten have mostly public and non-private capital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u5	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u6	Check it out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u7	I know a little about it...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u8	It happens that I too: we have worked as much as we have, and I am holding documents at your disposal, since obviously you have not read them all. You're about to make an irreparable mistake. You are privatizing a natural monopoly, although you said so, since the Franco airports are a de facto monopoly with 62% of passenger traffic, 82% of freight, 85% of North American connections. You are probably falling under paragraph 9 of the preamble to the 1946 Constitution – we will see what the Constitutional Council will say when it comes to it. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I address myself to the majority: there is no shame, from time to time, in regaining his freedom. Voluntarism and its virtues should not be confused with obstinacy and vices. But I am afraid, with this privatisation, that you are giving in to these vices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u9	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u10	I believe that we will no longer be in this world in seventy years, that is to say at the end of the concession of the operation of ADP to a private operator; But today's young people will no doubt be able to judge the extent of the consequences of the privatisation operation that will be voted for, following that of motorways or other airports. We had the opportunity to state this during the general discussion, and this privatisation seems to us to be an economic, strategic and historical fault. We hear the arguments of the promoters of this sale which, in their view, would make it possible to finance the innovation, the economy of tomorrow and, impliedly, the employment of tomorrow. Only, it turns out that this jewel, which you hear brader, produces dividends from which its shareholders benefit, first among which the State: 174 million euros in 2018. Dividends, by nature, fluctuate, but the prospects for the development of air transport give reason for optimism. You want to sell ADP and place the proceeds of this sale, but also that of La Française des jeux and part of Engie, into state bonds whose dividends, of the order of 250 million euros per year, would feed a fund of innovation of break. You know very well that the Government can do this without privatizing ADP. In fact, this privatization has a virtue, in your mind: to reduce the public debt a little artificially by half a point of GDP. We wonder if this trick is worth such a sacrifice. I pointed out yesterday that the benefits of the operation are short-term, but to look at the medium- and long-term prospects, things appear from a completely different perspective. The Members of the Liberties and Territories Group will therefore try, ladies and gentlemen, to convince you tirelessly to give up your project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u11	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u12	On the occasion of the concession of commercial activity at Paris airports, we need to have ambitious targets for the sustainable development of air transport. I am a Member of Parliament for Essonne, elected from an electoral district near Orly which is very much overflew by aircraft, with the municipalities of Longjumeau, Champlan or Janvry being particularly concerned. We must be committed – and I know that the Government is committed to this – to reducing the impact of air traffic around airport sites, preserving the quality of life of residents and enhancing the compatibility between this quality of life and air activities. The health consequences of air pollution, as you know, are demonstrated by many international studies, including hearing loss, sleep disturbances, cardiovascular disorders, or declining learning abilities: the list is very long. According to the latest Bruitparif assessment, noise would cause the inhabitants of Champlan, for example, to lose 31.5 months of healthy life on the runways of Orly Airport, compared with an average of 1.9 months for the Francilians. We know that it is possible to act on noise and gaseous emissions, in particular by optimising approach procedures, capping annual movements or imposing curfews. I know, Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, your commitment to preserving this curfew, which is vital for residents. Many guarantees have been obtained by local residents and elected officials in this area, particularly during the debates in committee, and the rules must be effective. That is why I support the Government's willingness to include in the law new safeguards against air pollution, so that the future concessionaire has an ambitious, strict and binding specification that can meet the legitimate requirements of the residents of Paris airports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u13	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u14	Privatization of ADP is a bad business, because, as has been said, this group is strategically important to the country. It is necessary to take account of all the links, not only external, but also internal: as everyone knows, they are not all profitable. The company, for its part, is very profitable and could be even more profitable. What's surprising is that we're going to sell a company that we know has productivity gains to make. We will therefore sell it below its value, whereas we could simply reform it ourselves and benefit from these productivity gains. That's curious. I guess future shareholders are already rubbing their hands. The annual dividends are sufficient to feed a fund for industrial innovation. What is the point of selling the ADP group? Everyone has in mind the motorways: not only have they been sold at a price of 10 billion euros below the value estimated by the Court of Auditors, but their rate of return is 20 % per year – I do not know if you measure how huge this rate is. And all this was given to the private sector. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] What is the interest of this policy when I hear, moreover, that it aims to alleviate the debt, whereas today the state sometimes borrows at negative rates? How can we claim that we have to sell to bring back money and pay back our loans, when what we sell could bring us back and we borrow at negative rates? So I don't understand why you insist on privatizing both ADP and La Française des jeux.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u15	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u16	Minister, in turn, to develop two new arguments to explain why it would be absurd to privatize ADP. The first argument is based on ADP's indispensable social fibre: more particularly in the north of Ile-de-France, around Roissy-en-France and the Bourget, ADP owns airport platforms that provide jobs for riparian populations. The airports of Bourget and Roissy are surrounded by so-called sensitive areas, in which the unemployment rate is very high: or ADP, in connection with the companies of the platform, facilitates access to employment for the inhabitants of the surrounding communes. Only the public authorities can play a role as a social driver, by requiring companies to give priority to the hiring of the inhabitants of sensitive urban areas. A private company, guided by its profitability, will only hire people who can immediately access employment: it will not have this social fibre towards the surrounding territories. The second argument, Minister, which should prevent the state from privatizing, is even more worrying, since it affects public health. A few days ago, Bruitparif, an organisation recognized for its competence, submitted a report on the health consequences of aerial noise in Île de France – it has the title: Health impacts of transport noise in the dense area of the Île-de-France region. I quote from the conclusion: "375,000 people, or 3.7% of the population of the dense francilian zone, are exposed to levels of air noise exceeding the regulatory value [...]. At night, [...] 11% of the population still lives in an accommodation exposed to an aerial noise of more than 40 dB(A), considered as the quality objective to be achieved at night according to the WHO". Beyond these findings, the consequences of this exposure to noise above WHO standards – World Health Organization – are dramatic: "In terms of health impacts, air noise is responsible for 18718 years of healthy life lost each year within the dense francilian zone. ... When compared to the individual, the assessments performed give an average statistical value of 1.9 months of healthy life lost." For the most exposed areas, three years of life are lost due to air noise exposure in Île-de-France. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I note that the Government has carefully refrained from commenting on this report, despite its public health policy. Although there is a subject on which we cannot joke, it is indeed that of the health and life of the Francilians in particular and, in general, of all those who live close to airports, everywhere in France and throughout the world. It is the role of the public authorities to concern themselves with the health of the citizens and inhabitants of our country. I'm not sure a private company is able to do so as well as the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u17	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u18	There are few dossiers on the benches of this assembly that give rise to such unanimity. Whatever the political colours, with the exception, of course, of your majority. On the move, this project raises many questions. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions to which I would like answers. First question: why privatize strategic assets? If you do so by ideology, I would remind you that the United States, a liberal country, does not privatize ports and major airports. They know that they represent a strategic asset in terms of entry and national interest. Second question: why not learn from the past? Can we make a mistake once, twice, but three times? You are well placed to know what happened with the highways: you were then, it seems to me, adviser to the Prime Minister, Mr. de Villepin. You are also well placed, in Bercy, to know the history of the privatization of Toulouse airport, which the rapporteur of the Administrative Court of Appeal, if I have good memory, declared neither more nor less illegal. You are well placed to have heard the mayor of Toulouse and the elected representatives of the region explain how the Chinese company, which Mr Macron, at the time, had chosen, wants today to escape this operation after having seized the cash. Why not learn from the past? The third question: why should we set up this gas plant, which we will discuss in Articles 44, 45, 46 and 47? We have seen this with the highway concessions: once the contract is signed, it is the law firms that are happy to manage it. And I am not talking about the discussions on the slots reserved for companies or with the environmental protectors, which our colleague from Essonne has mentioned. In short, we are putting our finger in a gear and no one in this House can, in conscience, say that it will be easy to solve the major problems thus created. Why, at last, is there such a bad financial case? Not a Frenchman would agree to sell a property that earns so much to turn it into a bank placement that will bring so little back! I have a proposal for you, Minister. I know that you are not listening or pretending not to listen: it is also a sign of contempt for parliamentary representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u19	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u20	He's taking notes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u21	Minister, why don't you make a clear commitment to national representation to allocate the dividends of the state shares of the companies you want to privatize to innovation? Such a commitment will only take you a minute and everything would be so much simpler! I have the numbers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u22	We have them, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u23	There they are!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u24	You also have them: the bad years are 800 million euros; the good years, 1.2 billion euros. All this, to put the funds released by privatisation into an innovation fund, which will bring back 200 to 300 million euros! If you are sincere, make this commitment. But the truth is, you don't want to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u25	Ah, anathema!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u26	I also want to ask you some more embarrassing questions, Minister. What is the consulting bank for this operation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u27	The conspiracy in action!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u28	I'd like you to tell us. Who runs the French subsidiary of this consulting bank?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u29	Conspiracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u30	What will be the amount of the commission that this bank will receive?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u31	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u32	I would like you, Minister, to give the national representative the name of the consulting bank that you have chosen to carry out this privatisation. I solemnly ask you on behalf of the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u33	And not a word for the residents!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u34	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u35	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u36	I already had the opportunity to say this yesterday during the general discussion: I am opposed to the privatisation of Paris airports. Too many shadows, unanswered questions, incomprehension, and arguments that can't convince anyone. Admit that reducing ADPs at the Chocolate House, as your majority has been trying to do for several days, is quite pathetic! The planned sales of Paris Airport and La Française des jeux raise the question of the role and future of the shareholder state. Both companies operate well, very well even: 610 million euros profit in 2018 for the first, while La Française des jeux in 2017 generated a net profit of 181 million euros, with obviously, at the key, generous dividends for the State: 220 million euros in 2017, including 132 million euros from ADP. So why not shift, as Valérie Rabault asked yesterday, the dividends paid by these companies to finance the modernisation fund for the French economy announced by Emmanuel Macron? Your answers, more than fuzzy, unfortunately fail to convince anyone. As has been recalled, by selling your stake today, the shareholder state does not really make a good deal. Placed on a paid account according to the rates in force, the result of the sale will earn 3% pay per year, as a vulgar life insurance. Today, however, ADP provides the state with dividends with a profitability close to 10%, or three times as much. Why do you want to deprive yourself of such an annuity? We have the right to ask you. Last question – there are many of them, but I want to remain synthetic: will the state sell all of its 50.6 percent shares or only part of it? On Tuesday, Benjamin Griveaux sow the trouble by indicating that the state would retain a stake of about 20%, before reversing. This morning, Minister, you announced that all options are on the table, that nothing is yet decided and that the decision will be taken in the coming months. How can national representation be asked to vote on a principle without knowing how to vote? We'd like answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u37	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u38	Mr. Minister, finally, we're here! You know my attachment to this issue and to the constituency which is mine and which has, on its soil, the bulk of the grip of the airport of Orly en Essonne: its inhabitants obviously ask a lot of questions. However, beyond my territorial attachment, I too would like to stress certain inconsistencies and, above all, to affirm, in the preamble, that the union of oppositions, which you regularly denounce, which is being made against the privatization of ADP, is not, as you think, merely a picrocholine war between those who object by obstinacy to privatization, and the others, who would seek only legitimate or unwarranted grounds to oppose the Government. These reticences and concerns, and even oppositions, are much deeper. They are, of course, due to the fact that airports are not territorial outgrowths but are related to their environment – it is the elected Franciscan who speaks. I know you've made some progress. Some of my colleagues and I have, on several occasions, taken the floor, which is the pen of it, to question you about the legitimate concerns of the residents and the actors about the development of air traffic. This development, assumed, was confirmed for the Île-de-France region, especially when your Prime Minister explicitly declared, after the abandonment of the airport project at Notre-Dame-des-Landes, that the growth of air traffic would refer to the airports of France, without thinking, at that time, of the consequences on the development of traffic in the francilian sky. You seem to want to concede advances in slot capping: as far as Orly Airport is concerned, the night curfew that protects the residents offers them a nighttime beach sufficient to sleep. But even if these commitments are enshrined in the law, who will guarantee that the state will be able to enforce them in the long term to a majority group that will use all the pressure techniques we know tomorrow? Air traffic, growing from 5 to 6 per cent a year, will at some point lead ADP leaders to explain to the State that additional slots and movements are needed, to receive more large carriers at airports and, to that end, to open an unused runway or to build a new one, so that residents who, until then, were protected from the aerial nuisance of airports which are, I recall, very inserted into the urban fabric, will be overflew. After the territorial aspect, let us turn to the financial aspect, which has been mentioned: we cannot put it under the carpet. Your arguments are often quite short: on the one hand, you would like to sell Aéroports de Paris to provide innovation with a break of a few billion euros – financing that will reduce to the relatively low interest of the Innovation Fund; On the other hand, the state would not have to manage luxury shops. We could certainly agree, if the State did not need budgetary revenues. But the dividends are not alone in this: ADP also pays an abundant tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u39	That will not change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u40	It would be very curious to have to explain to the French, tomorrow, that you prefer the weak interests of the investment of the innovation fund, rather than an assumed rent of ADP, which is today an airport with majority public capital and which is, as in all the major liberal democracies in the world – in most cases, and the United States have been cited – a strategic asset of the state. Other issues were not raised. I am thinking of the compensation of private shareholders of ADP's capital – it would amount to between 500 million and 1 billion euros. I could also raise, beyond the financial question, the legal question of privatization of a monopoly. All these issues remain to be resolved, not to mention that of the State's economic interests. I have mentioned the land, which is generally on the territorial right of way of local and regional authorities: it is a matter of concern. In reality, Mr. Minister, this operation, which aims to privatize a company in a monopoly situation, first raises the question of a form of capitalism of connivance or even caste, since you intend to give in a single block the control of the airports of Paris to the private, when there is no real competition today in this sector of activity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] She then raises the question of pragmatism. You say today that he is on your side, but, in fact, he is on the side of those who oppose your project – it also concerns sensitivities that are expressed within your majority. If you really want to be pragmatic, you have to give up the privatisation of Paris airports!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u41	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u42	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u43	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u44	I quickly come back to some of the arguments already mentioned, and I add two or three others. Privatizing Paris Airports is first and foremost a strategic mistake. It is a key infrastructure that constitutes a monopoly. In this regard, I come back to the opinion of the Conseil d'État, behind which you often withdraw: it draws argument from the location in a single French region of all airports managed by Aéroports de Paris to rule out "the character of a national public service or a de facto monopoly" of this company. On the contrary, we believe that the fact that ADP manages 80% of French air traffic puts this company in a monopoly position. From this point of view, your project is unconstitutional, as a number of lawyers have already written. If you persevere, the position of the Council of State on this point will therefore be discussed before the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u45	We have to get out of hexagonal reasoning! Have some air!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u46	Privatizing Paris Airports is then an economic fault. Experience has taught us – or should have taught us – that the privatization of a natural monopoly, i.e. non-competitive economic activity, has led to poor results. A few years ago, we lived through the privatisation of motorways and, more recently, the privatisation of Toulouse-Blagnac airport. All such examples have led to disasters and have been errors. Committing a mistake, it can happen to everyone, but persevering in error, knowingly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u47	It's evil!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u48	[[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] ...it becomes a fault, a fault against the nation, against the interests of the country, and against the French people. Privatizing Paris Airports is also a budgetary mistake. With a margin rate of 14%, ADP is a regular source of revenue for the public accounts. The argument that privatization will fund a break-up innovation fund is not on the road. It is misleading because you know perfectly well that the privatisation money placed in this fund will yield far less than the current dividends of the companies that you intend to privatize through the PACTE bill. The report ranges from one to three: it is estimated that the sums invested in the innovation fund will be between EUR 200 million and EUR 300 million, while the companies you want to privatize contribute EUR 800 million to the public accounts every year. So your argument doesn't stand the way. It is neither credible nor serious to mention it before national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u49	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u50	Privatizing Paris Airports is also a democratic mistake, as Paris airports are a vital border at the heart of our economic and political capital. Privatizing a border is indeed a fault, and an abandonment of national sovereignty. Such privatization poses a risk in terms of weakening our country. Indeed, privatization would endanger Air France, our national airline, of which Aéroports de Paris is also the hub. A few weeks ago, we saw the Netherlands raise to the capital of Air France-KLM to defend the activity of Amsterdam-Schiphol International Airport. While the Netherlands, like all the countries of the world, supports their national company and defends their national airport, we take the opposite path: privatization, the abandonment of national sovereignty, and the inevitable weakening of our national company. It's a mistake in terms of the meaning of history. Finally, I would add that we are at risk of unconstitutionality. As I said, the opinion of the Council of State seems fragile to me and we cannot take refuge behind it. Allow me a moment to express myself also as an elected member of the Seine-Saint-Denis. A report by the National Assembly, published last May, on the evaluation of the State's action in the exercise of its sovereign missions in the Seine-Saint-Denis, showed that there were breaches of republican equality in our country. The Prime Minister has made commitments to deal with the specific situation of the department and to give it the means to reach the level of others. In this context, it should be noted that the two Paris Paris Airport sites in the Seine-Saint-Denis – Bourget Airport and Roissy Airport – employ more than 100,000 people, often recruited locally, in Val-d'Oise, Seine-et-Marne and Seine-Saint-Denis, especially in difficult neighbourhoods. Privatisation is therefore also a bad blow to local employment, territorial rebalancing, and the Seine-Saint-Denis. All this is tainted by a great suspicion. A few months ago, Minister, your Government took responsibility for abandoning the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport project. The breach of the contract signed with Vinci has paved the way for an already very high compensation of the latter. We can legitimately ask ourselves...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u51	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u52	Measure your words, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u53	I'm measuring them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We can legitimately ask ourselves, when we see the weakness of the arguments in favour of the privatisation of ADP, that it appears to be a contradiction, and that all Members except those of the majority are opposed to it, as well as all professionals in the sector, how it is possible to push back the suspicion of a removal of an elevator to the benefit of Vinci society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u54	That's not true! I heard Mr. Charles de Courson's arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u55	It's already done with the bypass of Strasbourg! They had to be compensated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u56	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u57	I am not convinced of the need to sell Aéroports de Paris; To tell the truth, I'm even frankly hostile to this idea. I am a little distressed when I hear some arguments, like when the majority tells us that it is not up to the state to manage La Maison du chocolat! Of course, there is no question of managing La Maison du chocolat. Reducing Paris airports to duty free shops is frankly not serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u58	These activities still account for 74% of turnover!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u59	Aéroports de Paris became the world leader in the sector in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u60	Not in quality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u61	Today, the French state and France can pride themselves on being the majority of the capital of the world's number one sector. I recall that Paris airports are certainly Orly, Roissy, Le Bourget, and a number of airports and airfields in France, but they are also participating in a large number of airports around the world, such as Mauritius, Santiago, Aman, Istanbul, Antalya, Izmir, among many others. You can see this: reducing Paris Airport to La Maison du chocolat is not serious, because ADP is a major global player who plays an important role in its sector. The French State must therefore remain in control of it. Wanting to get rid of an international group with a turnover of almost 5 billion euros – admit that we are far from La Maison du chocolat – is an obvious strategic mistake. This is also a mistake because with a combined traffic of 100 million passengers, Orly and Roissy constitute the first frontier of France. It is essential for the French State to retain full control of it. Beyond strategic error, privatization is a mistake in terms of spatial planning. In fact, again, reality has nothing to do with La Maison du chocolat: Aéroports de Paris is the first landowner of Île-de-France. That's what we're debating this morning! How can we not want to preserve the heritage of the first landowner of Île-de-France? It's not serious. The error is also financial and budgetary. We have already told you, during the work of the special committee, and then during the public examination, on the occasion of the first reading, but you do not want to hear anything. ADP's turnover and profits are constantly changing. You explain to us that it is necessary to sell quickly in order to avoid a possible reversal of situation, adding that if we sign very quickly we will have insured the 250 million euros per year that the sale of ADP and French games must report. However, we know very well that the number of passengers in the world will continue to increase – just look at the figures published by the World Tourism Organization – and that France has the ambition to take its part and remain the world's first tourist destination. We're targeting 100 million visitors! All this will necessarily lead to the development of the turnover of Paris Airports. Getting rid of a thriving company, which will be even more so tomorrow, is indeed a financial and budgetary mistake, especially since the operation is supposed to allow the creation of a fund for breaking innovation... Frankly, you should sometimes listen to your own speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u62	In fact, it's a breaking innovation fund!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u63	Are you planning to create a break-up and innovation fund to bring about a major change in the French economy with 250 million euros a year? I mean, you can't believe it yourself! This is all the less serious because we already have these 250 million euros thanks to the annual dividends of Paris Airport and the French Games. If you want to create a fund of 10 billion euros, save on the state budget, but don't sell Paris Airport and La Française games! If you want to invest in innovation and the new economy, do so by allocating dividends that already exist for this purpose! You can see: all this is not standing. Your true motivation, but everyone has understood it well now, lies in your desire to reduce the debt of the State. These privatisations will make it possible to show a debt of half a point lower than it is today, which will prevent you from approaching too close the 100% debt to GDP. I do not dispute that this is one of your sincere concerns, but, frankly, there are other ways to desend the country than to sell ADP and La Française de jeux. The majority should also look at what is happening outside our borders, since it refuses to hear us. That said, it is a good game to pretend that, because we belong to the opposition, we are systematically hostile to everything that it proposes. That's totally wrong! We have voted on a number of the texts intended by the majority, in particular with regard to labour law orders, or the privatisation of SNCF. On a number of issues, we are ready to join, but this is not the case with these privatisations. I come back to the foreign examples. Knowing that we will be taught a lesson in liberalism, it is interesting, for example, to look at what happened in the United States. I would point out that, for our part, we are not hostile in principle to privatisation, but we believe that the State must remain a strategist State, which must continue to master essential tools such as airports, motorways, which have been wrongly privatized, or a number of ports. The observation is simple: in the United States, all airports are public. There is also an interest in the airline's discourse on airport privatization. At its general meeting in Sydney last June, the International Air Transport Association – IATA – which brings together 290 airlines around the world, adopted a resolution advising States to preserve the public nature of airports. IATA relied on a McKinsey study that found that privatized airports do not deliver better services than public airports, but they cost more. So it's not the opposition that says it, but the very serious McKinsey firm and all the airlines around the world. Tomorrow, privatized Paris airports will cost more, whether you want it or not, and we will have deprived ourselves of the beneficial effects of the positive evolution of its turnover. Beyond these remarks, several questions arise. There are competition issues. You are about to create a monopoly or rent situation, which will perhaps constitute, tomorrow, an abuse of the dominant position for the benefit of the two Parisian airports handed over to a private operator, whether you want it or not. There is also a question that I believe you have never answered, minister – perhaps you will do so today: will the State retain a stake in the capital of Paris Airports and how high? National representation has the right to know what is happening. Mr. Robin Réda has already raised the following question perfectly: how will you compensate the current shareholders? Mr Eric Woerth will speak much better about this other subject than I am: what happens if the evolution of turnover, dividends and profits is greater than expected? Can we get some of it back? We must also look closely at what happened in Toulouse, because the privatisation of its airport results in a real fiasco. Last Monday, before the Paris Administrative Court of Appeal, the public rapporteur even asked for the cancellation of the operation outright. I hope we don't get to this end, but I wonder if you've taken all the consequences of this fiasco that's going on in front of us. We, the Group of the Republicans, ask you, Minister, to give up the sale of Paris airports. We have also tabled amendments to try to limit the damage: seventy years is a really far too long period and we will propose to shorten it. Eric Woerth, for his part, has tabled an amendment, which we will support, that the French State should benefit from an additional price should the development of Paris airports prove to be even better than we think, knowing that the sector is booming and full of the future. Thank you, Minister, for coming this morning to listen to us in person.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u64	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u65	This is an extremely important debate and I hope that you will answer all the questions we raise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u66	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u67	Minister, this morning we are gathered to discuss in particular the privatisations you are considering, not only those of Paris airports but also La Française des jeux. From the beginning, however, no one understands your logic, whether strategic or economic. And because there is no logic, my colleagues have already demonstrated this by decrypting what makes your argument weak. I would like to return in particular to this case of the break-up innovation fund. Today, we have companies with a yield of between 5% and 10%; Paris airports, this has been recalled, earns between 800 million and 900 million euros each year. You want to sell it in order to abound this fund, but to the tune of EUR 200 million to EUR 300 million per year only, because you have to know that the return will be 2.5%, or two to three times less, thereby reducing what we have today in terms of investment capacity. In addition, I would stress that this text does not guarantee that the product of these privatisations, which have no strategic or financial justification but are based only on an ideological basis, will actually abound this breaking innovation fund. Apart from serving friends,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u68	Oh! Stop with that! It's a fake debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u69	...we don't know what they're for. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I am faced with bonuses, whether you, Mr.Minister, be it the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, whom I heard this morning, or the President of the Republic: this is the speech of the supporters of the Paris Fair – with all the respect I have for them! The difference is that with you, at the end, we won't even have the vegetable peel. It is absolutely necessary to stop brader Aéroports de Paris and La Française des jeux, and to preserve the financial capacity of our country thanks to the revenues of these two companies to abound the innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u70	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u71	Mr Minister, you will have understood this: the La France insoumée group does not intend to let you down on such a subject, even if we thank you for choosing to devote this session to the deprivation of ADP: you are well aware of the emotion that it arouses throughout the country. It should be noted, moreover, that the issue has been more prominent between the two readings – while the bill deals with multiple issues – since a petition against privatization, launched since the first reading, reached at this time more than 130,000 signatories. That is a sign that national representation is not the only one who cares about what you intend to do. On the PACTE bill, we have already said that our vision of the economy diverges from yours. We believe, and say again, that your text is based on an obsolete model: while it has a considerable claim to integrate businesses into the stakes of the 21st century, it misses the essential, especially the climate issue. With regard to the privatisation of Paris airports, your answers have still not convinced us. The sale would, in your opinion, bring back 8 billion to 9 billion to create an investment fund for breaking innovation: yet everyone sees that the economic situation at Paris Airport would already allow to feed this fund if it were really your intention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u72	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u73	I recall that ADP manages the airports of Orly, Charles-de-Gaulle and Bourget, and that this company became, in 2018, world number one in the sector with 281 million passengers, an increase of almost 8% compared to 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u74	A quantitative increase, not qualitative!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u75	This would be the biggest French deprivation ever achieved, in all sectors, and you would be accountable and responsible for it. Of course there is no shortage of candidates: the Vinci group, which is a favourite, Italian Atlantia or Spanish Ferrovial. The Île-de-France region and all the French departments have issued a communiqué expressing their regret that they have not been consulted: they are concerned about the disengagement of the State. Of course, the only privatization operations that will remain possible after it will also involve key sectors, which are highly strategic, since everything has already been targeted. Emmanuel Macron continues with the great braderie in which he participated largely during the previous quinquennium: I must remember that, minister of the economy under François Hollande, he has to his credit the privatization of the airport of Toulouse, having authorized his sale to a Chinese group unrecommended, implanted in tax havens, with at his head a corrupt oligarch who siphoned a good part of the cash to grant himself colossal dividends, to the tune of 27 million euros. Today, it is trying to sell nearly 50% of its group's shares for 500 million euros, which was sold to 308 million euros by the State. What a gabegie! Beyond the purely economic and financial question, Aéroports de Paris, this has been recalled, including by my colleagues Les Républicains, is the first frontier of France. The exclusive pursuit of profits is likely to be carried out at the expense of security and safety issues. Yes, Minister, the future acquirer will benefit from an ever-increasing reduction in the number of personnel required to monitor airport and flight security and safety. Yes, Minister, the future purchaser will benefit from ever-increasing air traffic at the expense of the environment. Yes, Minister, the future purchaser may prefer short-term profits to the detriment of long-term investments. This privatization will therefore leave the possibility for foreign capital to resort to blackmail if the collective interests of the country are invoked. Mr Minister, we will also alert you to the unconstitutionality of this privatisation. The preamble to the 1946 Constitution is clear: "Any property, any enterprise, whose operation has or acquires the characteristics of a national public service or a de facto monopoly, must become the property of the community. As a result, ADP is not privatisable. Moreover, the privatization of a monopoly is always absurd at the financial level, because it represents a loss for the State: why give this rent to private interests? Privatisation should, of course, raise 8 billion to 9 billion euros, some of which would be placed in an innovation fund, but the return will be less than what ADP currently pays its shareholders. The State would thus earn more by keeping its shares. Your arguments are not sufficient, and I hope you have kept a close eye on them for this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u76	Yes, Mr. Quatennens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u77	You regularly say that it is a competitive company: that is not true, because ADP does not have a competitor within a 300-kilometre radius.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u78	On a plane, it's a quarter of an hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u79	It therefore exercises a monopoly. You also claim that private funds must be attracted in order to invest and develop ADP. But the state has the means to make these investments itself: for it to be in debt is not a problem since these investments will then be profitable by the company's results – you know that very well. You also justify your choice by arguing that, while dividends are important today, there is nothing to say that the same will be true in the future, considering their collapse. However, even if the zero investment risk does not exist, any reasonable investor knows that, in view of ADP's economic situation, this argument does not stand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u80	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u81	You also claim that this is not a privatisation, but a simple concession. But we have a precedent: motorways. This was also a concession. Moreover, this is an unprecedented case, the State has planned to buy back the assets at the end of ADP's concession. The risk, as you know, is that the state will have to pay huge sums at the end of it. Thus, without admitting it, it is a perpetuity concession for the private that you take the risk of putting in place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u82	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u83	In short, the real motivation for this sale, Minister, is elsewhere. Is this a gift you're considering making to Vinci to compensate him for the stoppage of the Notre-Dame-des-Landes construction site?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u84	But it'll be an alliance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u85	[["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] I'm asking you the question. I'm waiting for your answer, Minister. Or, given the fact that you have already chosen the business banker who will conduct the operation – which joined On the move and was in charge of fund-raising during the presidential campaign – is that a way to thank him? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] We are waiting for your answers to these questions, Minister, as we are still waiting for them on the other points.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u86	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u87	To talk about an airport, you have to take a little height. So I'll talk about the gallery. Should ADP be privatized or not? First of all, I would like to point out that this is not really a privatisation as such, but only a privatisation of the farm for a number of years. We're in the well-known concession system. We are often told, I still read in the newspapers, that to the right – I have been part of it for a long time and I am proud of it, as others are of other political formations – we should not oppose privatization, because privatizing would be in our DNA. But if I am on the right, it is primarily because I believe that public policies must be effective, both human and economic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u89	Now we're in agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u90	The real question, therefore, is not whether privatization has ideological content, but whether it is effective or not. However, the more the debate evolves, the less I am sure of its effectiveness – but perhaps some of the Government's arguments escape me. Privatisation, in my view, is not an ideology. Perhaps it would have been better to start by gradually reducing the presence of the State in industrial activities where it does not need to have so many shares to control its strategy. But you decide to start with ADP, La Française des jeux, and, in part, Engie, a company for which the process is already underway. Why? The objective seems to me to be unclear. It's double in my eyes. The first, which is never mentioned, is debt relief: in this case, reducing the debt by EUR 10 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u92	The objective is commendable, as debt reduction is necessary. However, showing such political activism to reduce by 10 billion a debt that exceeds 2000 billion does not achieve much! It's like emptying the sea with a little spoon. Even if I do not underestimate it, that cannot be the main objective. The second objective is to finance your breaking fund. Colleagues sitting on all sides of the House have expressed their views on the subject, using very different arguments which are not to be confused, nor is it to confuse the views of political groups, even in the event of convergence. Does this disengagement of ADP over the next seventy years meet the objective of financing an innovation of technological rupture through so-called "deep tech" start-ups? In contrast, you and your majority often use the term "annuity" to denounce annuity situations, while the state is not an annuitant as such. When the state receives dividends from ADP or other structures, it is annuitant if it wants to be, that is, if in reality it does nothing of that money and if it is content to sit on a pile of gold that it does not make prosper. To touch dividends does not, therefore, make a state an annuitant: it uses these dividends to finance public services. I had not understood that, in the current political crisis, funding public services was tantamount to adopting an annuitant approach. I don't believe it. So it's not about an annuity or annuitant. When we point out to you that you could use directly the dividends from ADP, and more modestly those from La Française des jeux, or the taxes that attach to it, to invest in your fund for breaking innovation, you oppose us volatility. If the said dividends are likely to be subject to this volatility, I would simply point out to you that in the long term the shares are less volatile than the bonds. I would also point out that you chose discount rates: when motorways were privatized, or rather granted, it was probably a matter of prices and tariffs, which we did not control sufficiently, but it was also a matter of discount rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u93	Quite right: I will answer earlier on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u94	It is in fact these same discount rates that make the prices: they therefore reflect a choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u95	That's the real question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u96	When you choose to end ADP's mission in seventy years, the choice in calculating the discount rate is, honestly, like a prediction: basically, it is a choice of the minister. I imagine that you, Minister, are being offered twelve extremely technical scenarios, to which you understand something because you are a minister and to which we do not understand anything because we are not: it is still, in a way, at some point, the choice of the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u97	That is the question of Mr de Courson to which I answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u98	Therefore, this issue of dividend volatility does not hold for a moment: in the face of this, the universe that you propose to us is at least as volatile. The volatility of long-term dividends is, in reality – especially when talking about an airport – quite low in a growing sector. The growth of this sector may, of course, be lower than expected: you are right never to use this argument. When I hear from time to time, especially on the benches of the majority, that the kerosene consumed by aircraft should be subject to the carbon tax, at least as high as the fuel of our small car, I think that such an eventuality would have the effect of greatly slowing down the ability to travel. When a plane ticket is worth twice as much as it is today, fewer people will travel. If we decide that the French must no longer travel, that is what we must do, but if we decide, on the contrary, that we must allow them the freedom of mobility, we must not do so. If we do not therefore opt for an increase in the carbon tax on airfares, we see that the airport sector is a good investment sector. Besides, there's a pretty funny thing about your 2.5% investment: to reach such a rate, you're obviously going to make bond investments. You will buy bonds, and possibly ours, that is to say those issued by the French State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u99	[[Smile]] Because they pay more than 2.5%!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u100	You will thus, through the sale of ADP, finance the French debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u101	It's not serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u102	To rise to 2.5 per cent, however, we will certainly have to buy debt from more risky states, that is, roughly modo, which earns a little more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u103	Greek debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u104	We shall therefore, in doing so, also finance the debt of relatively dangerous states: we may buy Italian debt, Greek debt and, certainly, the debt of states outside Europe. In the long run, we are not going up to an interest rate of 2.5%! However, it is rather curious to claim to finance companies, starting first by buying debt, and thus creating debt. Finally, honestly, nothing would have prevented you from finding 250 million euros while saying very clearly that the state, without being an annuitant, retains the property – and in any case the exploitation – of ADP, which I believe is not so badly managed. You can also place people from the private sector who are perfectly competent to manage airports at his head: you could have made this choice. In such a case, we could have used ADP's dividends to invest in this fund. Is the latter necessary? That's another question. The Finance Committee received yesterday the Director General of the Public Investment Bank, which is a tool that works well and has a rather good image. It invests, or rather we invest, because the BPI is a public bank, 2 billion euros in deep technologies and start-ups, i.e. targeting exactly the same target. Moreover, the Future Investment Program – if it has changed its name, the idea remains the same since Nicolas Sarkozy – is also intended to finance technological breaks. If you had wanted to finance a fund of rupture, at the bottom, the break would have been to invest 10 billion euros, not 250 million. If you want to change the scale and accelerate the evolution of French companies and of French technological innovation, which is too slow compared to the rest of the world, then go to the bottom! Have an attitude that is exactly contrary to that of an annuitant: invest 10 billion euros, which is not that simple. Put 10 billion euros in the balance to finance all the research programmes that it is possible to design on these subjects in France! But you don't. You therefore retain an annuitant attitude towards breaking innovation. Finally, as regards the calculation of the price, questions arise, first of all that of the compensation of minority shareholders, who, until now, have been shareholders of a company which had life ahead of it, and who, if they do not sell their shareholding, will become shareholders of a company which is only seventy years old before it. They must therefore be compensated. In your opinion, what will be the level of such compensation? It all depends on the estimated cash flow at 70 years. However, as many things can be said at the discount rate, as we have seen with the motorways, I would like to have your opinion on this point. Does the State, moreover, remain in the capital of ADP? Do you intend to stay there – the same question arises for La Française des jeux: will we talk about it later? This week the Government contradicted itself on the subject. Now, with regard to such an important subject, on which you have considered so much, why contradictions? There can be no such thing as a market. How are things going to happen: do you or do you not intend to stay in ADP? What role do you envisage for local authorities? I had with other colleagues an amendment to give them the opportunity to intervene in the ADP, as is the case with other airports around the world. Will they subscribe to the market offer, i.e. the public sale operation? Should they buy everything, or only part of that capital? From a financial point of view, how will their intervention work? Finally, why do you refuse the idea of a price supplement clause? I have tabled with my colleagues in the Republican Group, in particular Daniel Fasquelle, an amendment to give effect to this idea. If you decide to privatize the management of Paris airports for seventy years, you must at some point rest the same question as for motorways, but differently: if this operation creates more value than you thought, you must be able to complete the price. It's not a novelty, because it's been done elsewhere: you don't want it. You are opposing the fact that the procedure will be on a voluntary basis. No: it is sufficient to include this clause in the specifications and to indicate how and according to which timetable, technical modalities and variables, it will be possible to review and supplement this price, so that the sharing of added value is greater than that which would have been measured in a way that is probably too little predictive. First, is there an urgent need to fund this break-up innovation fund? No, there is no urgency even if it is obviously urgent for France to be more competitive. Second, why do you want to be strong? If you answer the questions that are asked, there is no ideological reason for us to oppose this operation. Why, then, do you want to be strong, both on La Française des jeux and on Aéroports de Paris? I'd be you, but I'm not...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u105	[[Smile]] That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...I would rethink your project to represent it differently in national representation, probably in a more attractive and convincing way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u107	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u108	[[Smile]] We're gonna learn things!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u109	I am speaking today, as often, on my own behalf, strictly personal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u110	It's not new.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u111	I have been your rapporteur on air transport for ten years. When I was a young auditor at the Court of Auditors, I sat in the Chamber of Transport, where I had, on two occasions, checked Air France, and where I had a great deal of interest in these matters. I say this to our young colleagues: I was also the rapporteur, in 2005, of the draft law which became the law of 20 April 2005 on airports, that is to say the text which transformed the status of ADP. I have been interested in these issues for almost thirty years now. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share three thoughts with you. The first is addressed to the Government. Minister, I have told you in committee and I am telling you again today: the arguments used by the Government in support of the privatization of ADP are not admissible. Why? The Government tells us that it needs €250-300 million to finance a breaking innovation fund and that the proceeds of the privatization of ADP, placed with the BPI at the rate of 2.5 per cent, will allow it to escape the fluctuation of the dividend proceeds. Ladies and gentlemen, this argument is not valid: if you wish to allocate a revenue to an expenditure, which in my view is a mistake, we must draw the 300 million from all the dividends received by the State. So no need to privatize ADP, La Française des jeux or I don't know what else to get them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u112	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u113	Having always personally defended budgetary orthodoxy as regards its presentation, i.e. universality and unity, such an approach introduces a new rupture. Indeed, where will this fund be? It will naturally be extra-budgetary, which will allow your successors, Minister, to tinker and do so by completely avoiding the control, and especially the vote, of parliamentarians, even if they will still be able to see what the ministers who succeed you will have done with those 300 million. That argument is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, null and void. My second reflection relates to the five arguments of the principled opponents of privatization, which are not well-founded. The first is the loss of sovereignty: ladies and gentlemen, it is totally incorrect. Those who have consulted the text know that the State retains all of its current powers over ADP. Whether ADP is public or private, this does not change the sovereignty of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u114	Totally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u115	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To be even more precise, the text strengthens a little the sovereignty of the State. Why? No one here remembers the Courtson amendment adopted during the review of the 2005 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u116	Of course I do, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u117	It was following an amendment by the rapporteur that I was at the time that the ownership of the land belonging to the State was transferred to ADP. Why? Because the state is always impecunious...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u119	... and that ADP needed equity that that company did not have. The transfer therefore constituted an in-kind contribution by the State in order to strengthen its own funds. But, since I'm not quite born of the last rain...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u120	[[Smile]] Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u121	... in the event that some airports – since there are fourteen in the ADP group – would be downgraded and the corresponding land sold, which is very expensive, we had planned a mechanism to recover the capital gains. It has also been retained in the text before us. This first argument of loss of sovereignty is therefore unfounded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u122	Sovereignty is not just that; It's the borders too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u123	The second argument, which is based on the theory of natural monopoly, deserves reflection. According to the Commission, airports are natural monopolies. If this thesis could be defended fifty or sixty years ago, it is no longer defensible. Why? Because airport platforms are now competing with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u124	Yeah. That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u125	Why don't competitors privatize their airports?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u126	This is true for both freight and passenger traffic. If you want to go from Paris to New York, you don't have to make a direct flight without a stop. You can indeed take the train, the TGV, and go to Brussels: that is what many students do, because it costs less. You can then fly Brussels-New York. Businessmen, when optimizing their transportation costs, sometimes do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u127	What about the freight?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u128	Then, in the case of freight, this competition is 100%, since one can land in Luxembourg, Brussels or London and then mainly use trucking – sometimes also, but in a very minority way, at the railway. The argument of the natural monopoly could therefore be defended fifty years ago, but not today. The third argument concerns the precedents – starting with the three regional platforms that have been privatized. If you want to be honest, you have to look at all three. In the Finance Committee, we asked – President Woerth certainly remembers – for a report on the matter to the Court of Auditors. The privatisation of Toulouse airport, it is true that it is a failure. Why? Mr. Le Maire was not responsible: he was not in power at the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u129	No, it was Mr. Macron who sabotaged the job!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u130	It's the work of the thugs in Holland!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u131	This is a failure because the specifications were neither done nor done. The playoff criteria did not even mention the need to have an experience or to have the necessary abilities and financial means! [[Murmures]] So the majority of the time sold to a Chinese. We know how it's going in China, don't we? They're totally corrupt. The buyer disappeared – it seems that he was put in jail – then he reappeared and now he wants to sell, making a small gain of 30 to 40 million euros, according to what the press says. So it's a great failure. However, when there are three privatisations, ladies and gentlemen, we must look at all three. Is the privatization of Nice airport a failure or a success?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u132	It's a success!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u133	Indeed: almost no one talks about it, but it is a success. It is not I who say it: it is enough to question the elected representatives of Nice to know it. Construction of the new terminal has begun. The great interest of the operation is that the airport has been entrusted to operators who have the long arm, and who have opened direct lines to England as well as to many other destinations, in order to unblock Paris and show that there is not only Paris in France and that regional platforms can also offer direct connections. So it's a success. As for the privatisation of Lyon airport, it is between the two.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u134	Yeah, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u135	Then there's the highways. If there is one here who can tell you about it, it is the minister, because he was the chief of staff of the ingenuable Prime Minister of the time, Dominique de Villepin – I say "indefinable" because he defended sometimes incredible theses. They privatized the highways. We fought him. We went all the way to the Council of State. Unfortunately, we lost. Why was it a huge mistake? For a pragmatic reason: the bulk of the debts of the autorotary concessions were repaid. The highways became cash machines. However, given the shortage of budgetary resources, this offered the possibility of using these surpluses to modernise the national road network. That is why, in the case of motorway companies, privatisation was a huge mistake. The buyers, on the other hand, did not make a bad deal! There are certainly some among you who own shares of highway companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u136	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u137	For my part, I do not feel concerned...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u138	[[Rites and exclamations]] But if there is, necessarily, even if they do not necessarily know to the extent that these shares are included in investment funds. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you: you have had a hollow nose! There is still one argument, according to which all over the world there are only public airport platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u139	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true! First of all, there is Britain: the smallest airport in London is private – I mean it by antiphrase, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u141	It's the only case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u142	Not at all, dear colleague. Is this a disaster? No.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u143	It's one of the best rated airports!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u144	Right, Mr. Forissier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u145	Then do you know Istanbul? According to you, is Istanbul's Atatürk Airport – which is in Europe – public or private? Well, it's a concession! And do you know who's exploiting it? Who knows about you? Anyone? Yet there was one who said so earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u146	It's ADP!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u147	It's ADP. You won, Mr. Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u148	[[Smile]] It's "Questions for a Champion"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u149	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Olivier Becht also applauds]] This means that those who are against privatization believe that we must protect ourselves, but that others must not do so. We have the right to operate other airport platforms, but the reciprocal is not true! Do you know how many ADP airport platforms operate outside France?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u150	Fourteen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u151	It all depends on how one counts, but it is indeed in this order of magnitude. Let's say there's a dozen of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u152	[[Smile]] Well written, Professor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u153	What is good for France today will be good for private interests tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u154	As for Vinci – this very small French company – which operates many platforms, it has won the concession in Portugal, for example. All Portuguese airports are indeed operated in the form of concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u155	And Vinci also has motorways...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u156	That, Mr. Little, is something else. I talked about it earlier. As for those who say that in the United States, a temple of liberalism, there is no private airport platform, they are ignoramus. Do you know this former presidential candidate, Mr. Ross Perot? Well, he created a totally private airport in the south of the United States.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u157	For how many passengers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u158	So please, ladies and gentlemen, let us not use arguments – for or against – which are not well-founded. That is what I meant to dispel the five arguments against the very principle of privatization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u159	It's not convincing...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u160	I now turn to my third and final point: the privatisation of ADP is defensible, but under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u161	Which are not filled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u162	The first condition is that privatization is a means to accelerate the internationalisation of ADP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u163	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u164	Had the Government submitted the privatization project in a specific text, it would have been necessary for it to indicate that, in order to ensure the prosperity of the ADP group, which is already an international group, it was necessary to accelerate its internationalization, that the State did not have the means to do so and that it should be privatized for that purpose. That makes sense! On the other hand, recovering 200 to 250 million euros per year to feed a fund for breaking innovation does not have any. If one opts for privatization, the core of the problem, Minister, is the choice of how it is to be done. Initially, you said that you wanted to reserve the option of choosing any route – but you have evolved on this point. I'm telling you from the beginning: if we privatize, there will be a call for tenders.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u165	I said it – thanks to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u166	That is the meaning of the amendment by our distinguished and charming colleague Lebec. We have agreed on this point: if there is privatisation, there must be a call for tenders, with a specification. Another condition relates to the content of this specification. Our no less charming chairman of the special commission gave us this morning the key elements – the document is at everyone's disposal. However, the minister is missing a fundamental element.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u167	[[Smile]] That you will add, Monsieur de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u168	In any case, I suggest that you add it – you could even include it in the law. What is he? The winning company or group will have to be integrated into the strategy that the French Government must define, which is a strategy for the internationalization of platform management. We cannot maintain management by the state, by a piece of state or by a local authority – today there are all the cases. These are the two missing elements. We started in committee to add a number of things to the specifications and the law, but not those. We'd have to do it. If these conditions were met, I think the idea of privatizing ADP would make sense – but this should not be done in the context of funding a breaking innovation fund. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups.– MM. Olivier Becht and Nicolas Forissier also applaud. – Rites and exclamations on the banks of the GDR Group]] Conclusion: Let us emerge from the alliance between colbertism and neo-Marxism, which has always led in this country to immobilism and, one day, to revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u169	All of this to get to this point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u170	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u171	Of course, we share some of the views just expressed by our colleague Charles de Courson. As you know, the IUD, Action and Independents group is shared about the PACTE bill, particularly with regard to the privatization of ADP. Nevertheless, Members Act will vote in favour of the text and support the principle of privatisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u172	Yes, the European elections are coming soon: there is a world to place!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u173	Nevertheless, we have a number of comments to make and a question to make. First, we fully share the analysis that the state must focus on its strategic missions. However, you are right, Minister, it is not his strategic objective to manage parking and shops in an airport on a daily basis. We must pay particular attention, in the current context, to the essential tasks of public service, namely schools, universities, justice, prisons, gendarmerie brigades or police stations. These are the strategic objectives and core tasks of the State. Secondly, you are right to say, Minister, that we must invest the bulk of our resources in technological competitiveness. We are currently experiencing one, or rather one of the technological revolutions, in the field of artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, biotechnology or cognitive sciences, which will underpin the competitiveness of nations tomorrow – this is already the case today. So we have to live up to the stakes. China is investing the equivalent of EUR 100 billion in artificial intelligence. If Europe wants to play the game against the United States and China, and not watch it on television, if we want to be on the ground not only to participate, but to win, we must be given the means to do so. You are right: even if it is only 250 or 300 million euros to invest, we must do so. It will be an ever more strategic investment than if this money went to ADP – even if we agree, the sum is not necessarily up to the level. I would like to say to our Republican friends that if I hear the argument of tourism and the economy of tourism is strategic, France's objective is not to become a great museum; It is to compete in terms of economic competitiveness with the great nations of the United States and China. I come to a slightly more critical remark. With regard to privatisation, we have nevertheless, Mr Minister, reached the limits of the exercise. It has been practiced diligently since 1986. Every time we need to either bail out the caisses or invest in a strategic area, we sell some of the furniture. Today we come to the end of the inventory. In one way or another, we will have to focus on reducing conventional spending in the future in order to reorient it towards strategic spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u175	We can no longer be content with the simple logic of privatization. That is an argument that must be heard by the Government. A question, finally, about sovereignty. All arguments that have been made are acceptable. Charles de Courson responded very well to the one opposed by unsuspecting France of the natural monopoly. No, today, airports are not monopolistic; This is particularly true for ADP. I'm from eastern France. When one lives there, if one wants to fly to Asia or the United States, one has the choice, not between Paris and Brussels, but between all the European hubs – and one is much closer to Frankfurt, Munich or Zurich than to Paris. The monopoly argument therefore does not hold thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u176	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u177	It's all seen, Mr. Little: he doesn't hold. The Constitutional Council, if seized, will decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u178	ADP, that's 80% of air traffic in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u179	You continue to see France through the little bit of the lorgnette, that is, the French-French end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u180	You say that when it is you who abandon parts of his sovereignty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u181	Today, France is in Europe, within a mobility area. And the reality that our fellow citizens experience when travelling to different parts of the world is competition from Europe's big hubs. The competitiveness of a state is now linked to its connection to the world. We can therefore agree on one point: the question asked is not that of monopoly, it is that of sovereignty. Will France be able to retain its sovereignty over a strategic infrastructure? As regards the control of taxes and tariffs applicable at Paris airports, the explanations given to us last night are, in my view, entirely admissible. On the other hand, Minister, I am still wondering about the state's ability to take over, in the unlikely but not null hypothesis, where the concession holder for seventy years will see its capital evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u182	This one can even become Chinese!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u183	Of course, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u184	Or Dutch!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u185	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. "Mr. Frédéric Petit also applauds]] Over the course of these seventy years, the concessionaire may turn against the interests of our nation by choosing a strategy that, in the competitive context I have just recalled, aims to sink the platform rather than develop it. So how do you articulate section 44 with section 49, minister? Article 44 defines the procedures by which the concessionaire's mission may be terminated; Article 49, on the specification, sets out the objectives of the State's strategic assets. What is the relationship between these two articles? How can the State, in the event that the concessionaire's choices are contrary to France's strategic interests, immediately put an end to the concession and take over?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u186	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u187	[["Yes! » on some benches of the LR group]] Eric Woerth mentioned the objectives of the operation. The first, the most obvious, is to give ADP, the world leader in its field, the means of its international development, as Charles de Courson observed. But, as we can see, being a world leader cannot be an end in itself; It is even a very risky position: the examples of BlackBerry, Nokia, Kodak, Pan Am – Pan American World Airways –, TBWA – Trans World Airlines – or Rover are enough to remind us. These world leaders have now disappeared, or are disappearing. PSA, which now has considerable profits, was in a very critical situation a few years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u188	The state helped him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u189	The main objective, if we want to make Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle the first platform in Europe, especially at the time of Brexit, is to give it the means to develop it: means, that is, first of all capital, but also investment and innovation. At the same time, however, the State needs revenue. Most opponents of the project say that ADP pays large dividends; But the more he pays, the less he invests, to the detriment of quality of service and innovation, and the more the risks increase for the company. The objective is therefore to advance ADP and Charles de Gaulle Airport, today the thirty-seventh in the world, which is still a modest result. We talked about the United States, whose airports are public; But, you see it when you use them, these are not necessarily examples to follow. The privatized platforms in Nice and Heathrow are working well. In short, there is nothing extravagant about granting commercial activities to a private operator. Several examples around the world even tend to show that they are becoming more efficient and effective. In these circumstances, it seems logical to grant ADP to private actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u190	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u191	This sale, it is said, is a strategic mistake that will harm the country. It would be true if ADP were no longer regulated; As we have explained, the text is very clear on this point: the State retains and even strengthens, in some respects, its regal hold, whether in terms of tariffs, standards, customs control or air control. [["No! » on some benches of the LR group]] In order to enable ADP to develop, accelerate its growth, strengthen its positions and improve the quality of service, the only solution, the most effective in any case, is of course to concede its business activities to a private operator. Many examples show this: it is in this direction that we must go. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] We therefore support this article, with the improvements and security that Olivier Becht and Charles de Courson have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u192	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u193	Beyond the questions of sovereignty and the eminently strategic nature of the Paris platforms, which lead me to believe that the project is neither sensible nor urgent, I took advantage of the work in committee, Mr.Minister, to alert you to the consequences of such privatization on the future of the service by domestic airlines, regional lines, especially those which, like the Aurillac-Paris line – which you know well – benefit from a public service obligation. I was told that DGAC – the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation – would ensure that everything went as smoothly as possible; But this answer is not enough to reassure me: while the DGAC is watching over it and the state is a shareholder of ADP, the regional lines are already, through staggered slots – or even cancelled – or the conditions of access to the terminal after landing, adjustment variables for platform managers. I therefore fear that the internal lines will be diverted to other platforms tomorrow, if that is the wish of the future shareholders. That, you will agree, would not be without consequences, and in any case ill-advised on the eve of the consideration of the mobility policy bill and at a time when mobility is on all lips within the Government. Several times in this debate, Minister, you have pointed out that, more than the parking of aircraft, real estate and commercial activities are the main source of revenue and interest for ADP. In your view, this argument is supposed to justify the decision to separate from it; But, far from reassuring me, he alives my fears: if the development of the Parisian platforms goes through the development of their commercial activities, it is very much to fear that the future private shareholders will favour the reception of passengers who descend from an Airbus or a Boeing, to the detriment of those who descend from an ATR 42. Finally, the current CEO of ADP, whom I asked on the subject in the Committee on Sustainable Development, was unable to alleviate my fears, evoking half-words of a long-term risk. I am not making any claims of intent to you, minister, but it is my responsibility to ask you for assurances as to the continuity of the public air service, on which the service of territories such as the Cantal, of which I am elected, depends. As the amendment I tabled on this issue was, for reasons beyond my control, declared inadmissible, I would like to take advantage of our discussion to reiterate my fears, in the hope of obtaining assurances from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u194	You'll get them, Mr. Descoeur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u195	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u196	Should we privatize? That is the question that Article 44 leads us to ask. For my part, I have no fixed position. In general, the question seems to me to have to be asked on a case-by-case basis. Why, then, privatize Paris airports? In view, Mr Minister, of setting up a breaking innovation fund within Bpifrance abounded by the proceeds of the 10 billion euros from the sale. We are many to ask ourselves, as Eric Woerth did before me, why only this product, estimated at 250 million euros, will be allocated to the fund. For innovation, this will not have much impact. On the other hand, you intend to sell a family jewel that has a strong profitability. According to the figures, between 2006 and 2015, the state received nearly €870 million in dividends, and nearly €2 billion between 2016 and 2020. On the objective, therefore, your arguments are not audible. Airports remain an annuity, as the Court of Auditors points out, that airports are "profitable assets for the short, medium and long term, and low-risk investments, taking into account the favourable conditions and prospects of air traffic". The European Commission services consider that "airports with more than 55 million passengers are structurally cost-effective and able to cover their full costs". Therefore, your arguments about the innovation fund fall, since, as you know, its profitability will be less than the current and future profitability of the Paris airports. You are making a political mistake here, I think, which is detrimental to the interests of our country. I will not elaborate on the issues of sovereignty and security, which have been mentioned earlier by my colleagues. However, I want to react to a few errors in form. First, the Government, in recent weeks, has stated its desire to wait for the outcome of the major national debate to take some decisions. In my department, I attended eight meetings as part of the major debate; Each time, the issue we are talking about has been raised by citizens and, each time, they have expressed their fierce opposition to privatization. Not a single voice supported him. For all our fellow citizens, the case is therefore very sensitive. The second mistake is to have included this measure in the PACTE bill, which I would probably have voted on first reading without it, rather than abstaining.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u197	Then you will vote for it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u198	I hope so, Minister. Moreover, the CMP, meeting on 20 February, could have been successful if the majority had accepted the position of the Senate, which is also that of the Republican MPs. The third error is to have ignored the mistakes of the past. You may be wrong, minister, but it is not forbidden to correct yourself. Decisions taken on motorways, and even on certain airports, such as Toulouse – on which Charles de Courson recalled the observations of the Court of Auditors – should instruct you. Fourth mistake: you have been justifying the operation for a few days by saying that it is not a privatisation but a concession. Legally, you're right; But you will recognize that, in fact, a 70-year concession is equivalent to privatization. This new justification is indicative of the febrileness that has reached you as well as part of the majority. Finally, several of the questions asked to you relate to the farm specifications referred to in Article 45. A document was presented to the members of the special committee last night, which was presented as the terms of reference and contains 71 articles. However, it cannot be said that this document provides us with guidance on the content of the specifications: we have here only a list of the points that will be addressed – general framework, operating procedures, administrative police missions, environmental, field and infrastructure issues. Now, you know very well, the devil hides in the details... [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, it is still time, and it would be your honour, to give up section 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u199	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u200	It is crucial that the discussions on the concession of the company Aéroports de Paris do not elucidate environmental issues in their most concrete dimension. In this regard, the protection of airfield residents must be a priority. A strategic action plan to combat noise pollution must be implemented quickly. We therefore welcome the fact that the ongoing discussions on the future of ADP have made it possible to place at the heart of the debate these issues essential to the daily lives of many inhabitants of Val-d'Oise, Essonne and also Val-de-Marne. We must not lose sight of the fact that the issue of ecological transition must be taken into account in all aspects of our action. As Ms Borne, Minister responsible for Transport, pointed out, at the closing of the national air transport bases, "there will be no sustainable development of air transport unless all the conditions of its acceptability are created" in the territory. ADP is a partially public company. However, the regulatory framework to effectively combat noise and environmental nuisances related to airport activity is insufficient. However, the residents need to be accompanied, in particular in the framework of the concertation which is undertaken concerning Terminal 4. We welcome the work done to develop new measures, both within the framework of the national air transport bases and the ADP regulation that we are going to discuss today. The new measures in preparation will help to improve the situation by increasing the resources allocated to the support of residents in soundproofing projects financed by the TNSA – the air noise tax – and by improving the current management of air navigation to reduce the level of aircraft noise, in particular through the generalisation of continuous descents at Charles de Gaulle Airport. On the other hand, the easing of the implementation of the criterion of priority for the allocation of aid to the soundproofing of local residents – a subject that I am very fond of – should materialise. All actors must be mobilised for these purposes, and the concession must enable the existing arrangements to be strengthened. On the one hand, the airport operator must continue to participate in the effort and amplify it. We will defend an amendment to this effect, aimed at making mandatory the contribution of ADP to the compensation fund against noise pollution, which is now voluntary, in order to sustain its current amount of EUR 4.5 million per year. I also think that we need to go further to reduce the processing time of the stock of public housing and buildings to be soundproofed. On the other hand, the State will have to ensure that the airport infrastructure operator will take the necessary measures to reduce nuisances, in particular through its specifications. We will have to work further on the issue of revising the noise exposure plan in Roissy. I am elected on the territory of the urban community Roissy Pays de France, like our colleagues Pupponi and Kokouendo; We are therefore very interested in these concerns. What the elected representatives on the ground care about is transport, nuisances, but also and above all jobs. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I listened to the arguments of the opposition and I confess that I was not convinced, even though I was not insensitive to Mr. Woerth's speech and to Mr. de Courson's fine performance – in accordance with his usual practice. Like some, you can of course call not to let the Members who will vote for the privatisation of ADP go back alive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u201	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u202	Even in the form of an endad, it's not funny.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u203	Far from us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u204	It wasn't from us! Why would you look at us and say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u205	That's not what she did! It wasn't against you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u206	I said that to an unregistered Member, but he left. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Otherwise, you can join us in working on the text, improving it and putting the key issues for our citizens, especially for our residents, at the centre of the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u207	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u208	The privatization of Paris airports is causing a lot of ink to flow, especially in the territory where I am elected, the Val-d'Oise department, which houses the airport of Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle. If I were to take over, without a filter, concerns on the ground, I would say that we must not privatize, for two reasons: firstly, because it would be a very bad financial operation, as in the case of motorways; Secondly, because the quality of life of the residents, including the residents of the airport, would be degraded. That is what is said a lot and what I hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u209	And it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u210	On the first point – the economic aspect of the project – it is essential, Minister, to clarify both the objectives of privatisation, the figures and the method. It must be remembered that this operation will not be carried out without the communities, that it will have economic benefits for the departments concerned – I am thinking in particular of Val-d'Oise. This is essential; It's even a sine qua non. In this respect, I believe, far too many false information, misconceptions, have circulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u211	Especially on the part of the Government spokesman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u212	There were also shortcuts, such as the frequent parallel with highways. This is very worrying because it distorts the debate. On such an important subject, we need to be very careful. It is to the point that our exchanges have been hysterized: an elected member of the Republic has called not to let the deputies of the majority who would dare to vote for privatisation go out alive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u213	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u214	I want to say again: it is extremely serious to come to such violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u216	The French are witnesses to what is said here; It would be more pleasant for them that we emerge from postures and ideologies, that we stop political slogans. The French have the right to pragmatic, fair and transparent information on the subject. I have no doubt that you will give it to us, Minister. On the other hand, I must relay to you a serious, real and legitimate concern of the inhabitants of my territory: the nuisances associated with airport activities. I would like to take the opportunity provided by this debate to give the alarm on this subject. The daily life of those who are flown by planes is a hell: the noise is added to the air pollution. The health consequences are now proven. Recently, a study by Bruitparif explained that we, the inhabitants of Val-d'Oise, were losing many years of healthy life. I am thinking of the communes of Saint-Prix, Saint-Leu-la-Forêt, Montlignon, Ermont, Eaubonne and Franconville, flying over by planes. This is very alarming, and no one is spared. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Minister, what means are being put in place not to increase pollution and not to aggravate the already very difficult situation of these inhabitants of Val-d'Oise? What action plan could be considered in an attempt to reduce nuisances? There are very concrete elements that can be developed with regard to night flight restrictions, less harmful approach procedures, renewal of the most noisy aircraft fleets. You have announced quite significant progress on Orly Airport. We can rejoice in that; That's a very good point. But what about the residents of Roissy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u217	Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u218	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] An invitation to tender for Aéroports de Paris: for whom? I bet, without going through La Française des jeux, for Vinci – but it's just a bet. For once a public company returns, minister, admit that it is still a shame to deprive you of its revenues! If you do not know where to allocate them, I suggest that you allocate them to basic research and to the salaries of researchers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u219	All right! That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u220	This will prevent them from flying to pick up abroad... As for La Française des jeux, to moralize the winning of the game, I propose to assign it to the accompaniment of all handicaps; At least, people with disabilities will know what to expect each year. Minister, I would ask you to remove the matter of privatisations and concessions from the PACTE law, where you are making some interesting progress and for which you are not even asking, or rather, not even asking, for a solemn vote. How can such a law be voted without a solemn vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u221	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u222	It is not going to be voted as the bill of programming and reform for justice, by forty-two deputies, in the middle of the night!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u223	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u224	Be careful: the French are still more receptive to this kind of thing than before. Dear colleagues of La République en marche, do not repeat the known and acknowledged mistake we have made by privatizing the motorways. It's done, but there's no need to do it again. Assume the separation of powers: we represent the people, not a government! We'll call you back. In all the meetings of the great debate, we have been asked what we are serving for. You will see that the question will come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u225	But look at the text, read the amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u226	Seventy years, the minister – he doesn't listen to me –, multiplied by an average of 500 million euros per year, that's 35 billion euros. We're talking about a price of 14 billion for the sale, is that right, minister, am I right? ... I told you in committee: remove this file before it becomes a state scandal of which you will be the first fuse! I will not vote for the PACTE law, including this case. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the GDR group]] Madam President, I ask you to convey this message to the President of the National Assembly: this text would deserve a solemn vote; We owe it to the French, who are right to be worried.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u227	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u228	Mr Taugordeau, the Conference of Presidents decided this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u229	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u230	Badly sliced!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u231	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u232	As Charles de Courson has done, I will speak in my personal capacity, with the benevolence of the members of my group, to make a number of observations which either go in the same direction as many of them have said, or differ slightly, given my deep conviction. Minister, I voted for your first reading...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u233	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u234	... and that I will do the same in a new reading, because I think it is in the right direction, even if I persist in thinking, as I said at first reading, that it lacks power, especially on two major subjects. Firstly, raising the thresholds, particularly that of the fifty employees, is the real problem, about which you have not pushed the reform to the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u236	Secondly, the transmission of enterprises is also very important. While 700000 to 1 million companies will have to change hands in the next ten years, the PACTE law could have gone much further and sketched out, even if it complemented it within the framework of the finance law, a much deeper reform, a structural reform of the corporate transmission regime, at least to align us with our German neighbours, who are very advanced in this field. That being said, I want to highlight the progress that the text represents, by addressing the privatization of Paris Airport, Engie Airport and La Française des jeux. In these last two cases, it seems logical to me. I'm sorry to say that, but I don't see why it would be up to the state to handle scraping games; It carries out all kinds of control in the context of its role as regulator, but it is not up to it to be the owner and manager of this type of activity, I say as I think it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u237	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u238	I come to the major subject: Aéroports de Paris. In that regard, I have heard a lot of things. I will not be too long because our colleague Charles de Courson said exactly what I wanted to say, with great precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u239	He's been excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u240	However, I would like to go back to a number of points, starting with what I think is essential in the debate, if not ideological, at least in substance, which we had last night and this morning – I am thinking in particular of Mr Mélenchon's speech yesterday and your reply, Mr Minister. For my part, I will talk a little about liberalism; But I also want to put forward two principles, apart from the comments I wish to make. [[The chairman of the special committee applauds]] First observation, several of our colleagues have spoken of a monopoly. I regret: Paris airports, for two reasons, is not in a monopoly situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u242	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u243	First, as an administrator of Châteauroux-Déols Airport Marcel Dassault, who hopes to develop in the years to come,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u244	Long live Châteauroux!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u245	[[Smile]] ...I recall that Paris airports are competing with us – but perhaps I should say the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u246	Oh, yes! We understand better why you want to privatize Aéroports de Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u247	You're defending your airport!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u248	There's a conflict of interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u249	One can imagine – and I imagine very well – that this competition could be transformed into a partnership, as I have had the opportunity to say on several occasions to the President and CEO of Paris Airports. In any case, there is already real competition, much more complex than one would say, in the national territory. On the other hand, and above all, I am struck by the fact that, in our debates, the reasoning is hexagonal, the extent to which the national public debate is confined within our borders.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u250	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u251	Some make international comparisons only when they arrange them, without ever reasoning in a global way. However, Aéroports de Paris is in competition with all the hubs in Europe, especially in Northern Europe, and even the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u252	And with Châteauroux!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u253	Beyond the case of Châteauroux-Deols, dear colleague, we are in direct competition with the airports of London, Brussels, Amsterdam, Frankfurt and I pass!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u254	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u255	We must therefore stop pretending that we are transferring a rent to a private actor on the basis of a monopoly, which would indeed be a scandalous act. That's not true! I would say even more: in the absence of a monopoly, given the exponential evolution of passenger air traffic over the next ten or fifteen years, we must take into account the fact that competition necessarily subjects Aéroports de Paris to a permanent competition, which forces it to invest regularly in order to remain among the world's first airport platforms. Therefore, there is a problem of strategy for the country, far beyond the framework of the simili-political or simili-ideological debates that we have been given to attend on this subject, let me say it with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u256	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u257	Second observation, we hear about Toulouse airport over the course of debates. As Charles de Courson said very well, no one is talking about the airports of Lyon and Nice, which were privatized at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u258	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u259	Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors has dealt with the privatisation of these three airports. With regard to Toulouse, she deplored the shortcomings of the specifications and the resulting turbulence. As for the airports in Lyon and Nice, they operate very well under private regime. I would also point out that it was the right who began privatising Aéroports de Paris by transferring shares held by the State, and that it was the left, specifically the Socialist Party, that privatized the other three airports. Let's stop sticking to Toulouse Airport! The other two airports, privatized at the same time, are functioning very well, which demonstrates that privatization can also be a success. Thirdly, I would like to point out that 40% of European airports are totally or predominantly privatized. Let us stop saying that there is no example in the world to compare Aéroports de Paris, which is false. Fourth observation, we heard a few moments ago that we are privatizing a border, which is totally wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u260	Exactly, Mr. Forissier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u261	Moreover, what does privatizing a border mean? The State will retain the essentials, even the full powers of border police, identity checks, intelligence, air transport gendarmerie and surveillance of runways and their surroundings, as we know very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u262	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u263	As Charles de Courson pointed out, the privatisation of Paris airports will even lead to a strengthening of State control powers. So we are not privatizing public services, nor are we privatizing a border. The state simply carries out a strategic management act, in accordance with two principles, which I will mention in conclusion: free competition and the need to control our public spending. The principle of free competition is founding and fundamental in liberal thinking – I dare this word. Minister, you have defended yourself from being a Liberal. I am a liberal, in the deep sense of the word: I defend a strong state, provided that it concentrates its resources on its regal functions and its role as regulator.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u265	That is what liberalism is about. It is important to recall this, especially after our debates yesterday and this morning on the political principles that must govern our country and drive our public debate. I therefore stress the importance of competition, the founder of the liberal approach in the world and of economic history. As I recalled earlier, Aéroports de Paris is competing with airports around the world and must fight, in this context, to preserve its competitiveness and remain at the forefront of global airports as well as service companies. Indeed, we must never forget thatAéroports de Paris is a company exporting its know-how and engineering worldwide, and taking stakes in many airport platforms around the world. Given the enormous evolution of air passenger and freight traffic that we will experience in the coming years, Aéroports de Paris must show agility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u266	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u267	In terms of principles, since the privatisation of business activities – forgive me, it is better to say management – excludes regal functions, it is necessary for the development of the group, which will have to invest considerably. It is not the state that will do it, ladies and gentlemen. While our budget deficit is over EUR 100 billion – 107 billion this year, Minister – and our public debt is equal to 100% of our GDP, and we are already subject to so many obligations, which represent so much effort, to reduce public spending, we must be able to rely on the agility of the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u268	We can do it otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u269	I come to the second principle: the need to control public spending. This is a substantive debate, which I referred to earlier, recalling certain principles of liberalism. I am astonished – and I would like to address my group's colleagues and friends in particular here – to note that instead of taking the opportunity to reduce the State's scope of action, we are taking a pragmatic, effective and effective step towards reducing public expenditure, because that is the way to do it. We have the feeling of losing a nugget – an annuity, in this case – that will just allow us to be a little less courageous when we really have to cut public spending, thinking that we can count on a little soft, a little room for manoeuvre. This state of mind seems serious to me. On the contrary, we must, as a matter of principle, vote in favour of privatisation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, I support you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u270	Bravo! Long live Châteauroux!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u271	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u272	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, for everyone's information, I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion. The remaining speaking time is: three hours and forty-three minutes for the La République group on the move; three hours and one minute for the group The Republicans; one hour and seven minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement; one hour and fifty-six minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent group; one hour and forty-seven minutes for the Socialist and related group; one hour and thirty-two minutes for the group La France insoumée ; one hour and forty-two minutes for the group of the Democratic and Republican Left; 48 minutes for the Freedom and Territories group; Finally, eleven minutes for non-attached Members. There are therefore a total of 16 hours left for the text as a whole. Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u273	I am fascinated by the mastery of our opposition colleagues in the handling of fear, even on economic matters. We have heard our colleagues on the left as on the right paint an anxious picture, repeating the same speech to our fellow citizens for several days. Yet what we are about to do is neither more nor less than the establishment of a real economic strategy for the benefit of the French. And we do this by taking into account past experiences of privatization, such as that of motorways.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u274	Is this a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u275	Oh yes, let's talk about the privatization of highways! How many billions punctured on the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u276	Do you really think that this majority does not learn from the past?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u277	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u278	To let him believe is to lie to the French. It is not by making mistakes that truths are made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u279	Do you read the Pravda?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u280	And if not, what are your arguments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u281	You're acting falsely on the whole case. To say that the Government loses control of the governance of ADP is not true. To say that the Government loses control of borders, tariffs, airport regulations is wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u282	Ah, prices, yes, that's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u283	These are sovereign missions, which will remain under the sole responsibility of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u284	We'll talk about it very soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u285	To suggest that the state will abandon the residents is wrong, since firm and effective commitments are made. To say that investments do not remain under the control of the State is not true. To suggest that a foreign state could take control of ADP is not true, as any change in ADP control will have to be made with the consent of the state. All this is formalized in a clear, rigorous and transparent specification. [[Rites and exclamations on various benches]] One thing is true, however: 74% of ADP's activities are commercial in nature. Is managing a mall the role of the state? Personally, I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u286	It's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u287	So we should put an end to any such activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u288	No more than you do, Mr. Vigier. We therefore agree that there is a need to divest assets. When it comes to perceived dividends, to think that these are stable and sustainable incomes is to ignore the financial mechanisms: these revenues fluctuate according to the hazards of the market. History has shown us that they are not so certain, Mr. Little.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u289	We've seen the opposite in recent years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u290	Through this divestiture of assets, we want to guarantee income for the future, and thus create a fund for breaking innovation in order to invest in the future and to be in line with our economic ambitions in the competitive world in which we live.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u291	You reason in the short term!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u292	A choice must be made between increasing public spending, which is impossible in view of current budgetary constraints,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u293	And yet you increase them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u294	...and smart and safe investments. We take our responsibilities, providing all the necessary safeguards, in order to win both to increase international competition and to ensure the security of our investments. Thus, we will have nothing to envy at the airports of Frankfurt, London or Dubai, which are developing at high speed V. By this operation, we will indeed have boosted the economic dynamism of ADP while preserving the sovereign prerogatives of the State. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] No to public spending, yes to responsible and protective economic ambition in the interests of the French: this is the choice made by the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u295	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u296	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u297	As a long-standing Liberal, I am guided, speaking in this forum, by the principle of efficiency: will we make a strategic decision for the country? Will we, in doing so, have learned the lessons of the past? Various arguments have been put forward. Mr. Minister, you want France to be deleveraging. We can't dispute the need for it. How many times have I explained, in this same forum, that it was necessary to get out of this abyssal vacuum, to fill this well that continued to dig, to the point of appearing without background? But then why didn't you choose an autonomous legislative vehicle, like Édouard Balladur did in his time, and look at anything that could, or could not, be privatized? You could have offered us, for example, to privatize Renault. Why not? Is France's minority participation there truly strategic? In the name of what to keep it? Why don't we talk about it today? The same applies to Air France: two weeks ago, you asked your Dutch counterpart in disaster to come and meet you, and you did well, since the Dutch secretly increased their participation in Air France-KLM's capital. But is France's participation in capital really strategic? It cannot be said that the administrators of the state are always effective... But Aéroports de Paris is another subject. In 2006, I remember an association that had been created – chaired by François Bayrou, moreover – when the Government wanted to privatize motorways; Charles de Courson, who was a member, was just talking about "selling the family jewels." There was no debt. And since then, I have looked at the evolution of the concession, and I have seen how your colleague Elizabeth Borne had to scrap, in early January, in the midst of the yellow vests, so that the dealers would make an effort on home-to-work subscriptions. Minister, when you ask for an extra motorway exit or an enlargement, these companies are immediately asking for an extension of the concession, in order to improve their profitability! I can assure you, and no one will say otherwise. While the state received 12 billion or 13 billion at the time, dear Nicolas Forissier, how much should it give today to buy the concessions? How much would it take to put in the pot?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u298	Oh, that...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u299	The PACTE bill makes a great deal of money, for example for the financing of the company, with the two reservations formulated by Nicolas Forissier, on the transfer of companies or on the famous threshold of 50 employees. I fully agree with him, but it must also be recognized that this is a fight that we have been fighting for many years – particularly during the discussion of Bill Macron – and that we have never been successful. As far as Paris airports are concerned, look for efficiency. The decision we are going to make will be crucial. This company is a cash machine, everyone said. Will it have an important development in the coming years? Yes, because air traffic is growing, no one can say the opposite. You will grant me that if there is an area that offers extraordinary prospects, it is air transport. After hearing the word "competition" in the voice of the previous speaker, I want to ask if the fact that the state is the majority in ADP has prevented us from being present in fourteen global platforms. The answer is no. Not to mention privatisation, what worries me is the value of the company in seventy years, at the end of the concession. We all need to know and keep it in mind: there will be no return trip. Clearly, the State grants ADP, but if the situation so requires, it will never have the means to regain control of the fate of this case. This must be said to the national representative: if the concession is made, there will be no return in the escarcelle of the State, seventy years later, because we will never be able to offer the company again. Second subject: Minister, in a show, you rightly said that you were not selling family jewels, but that you were financing "the future jewels of the crown." It's a beautiful phrase, which I'm happy to take up. Let's be frank and let's say things in our eyes: who is it that makes fun of when we're planning EUR 300 million to finance break-up innovation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u300	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u301	That's not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u302	It's nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u303	That's 300 million a year for ten years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u304	For the energy transition, the state has announced that it will put $20 billion on the table to invest in renewable energy, nanotechnology and biotechnology, where we are lagging considerably behind. Look what's happening in the drug industry, where the Indians are gaining all the market share!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u305	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u306	I would understand better if the state could recover a sum from privatizations to adopt a purely strategic vision. When start-ups seek financing, it is not BPIFrance that mobilizes, but the famous countries classified A3 in terms of risk. As one of those who have set up an investment programme for these countries, I am aware of the difficulties that exist in drawing up such a dossier and mobilising actors so that it can be effective over time. If I say that, it is that this company could very well continue its journey because it is a cash machine, with very good prospects. In the competitive context of its own, it can very well continue its momentum and gain considerable market share in the coming years. If the state needs to get out of debt, whether it uses Renault, Air France or other companies in which it holds minority shares and does not play any strategic role, no one can say the opposite. It is a pity that Jean-Luc Mélenchon is not there – my remarks will be reported to him – since, between 2000 and 2002, he was minister of a government that had itself carried out privatisations. I had the curiosity to check it out with a few colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u307	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u308	You see, I don't have an absolute opinion on this. Some explain to us how extraordinary the 100% nationalizations of 1981 were when the state then took over only 51%, and all those who had said that they would not privatize did so as well. It is therefore better to be pragmatic. The motorways case has shown that we must take account of the past, Minister. Without being too long, I will also question the guarantees of this operation, which I am not opposed to as a matter of principle, as long as we define what is put in the bride's basket. I've been talking about these side-effects for highways. As you know, complementary investments often require changes to contracts, before which ARAFER, the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities, is often powerless. Let us take for example the problem of the deterioration of health due to noise, which our colleague François Pupponi presented very well in speaking of the case of his department. The Bruitparif report calls for careful reflection on the public health issues that will eventually be raised. As you know, the state participates, alongside ADP, in environmental and development houses. What will become of this participation in time? In the black areas around Roissy or Orly airports, residents have a shorter life expectancy. If you doubt it, read the report. What guarantee will be given in time? How will we do it? That will ensure public health is a significant issue for residents. In the Committee on Social Affairs, where we were discussing the bill on the health system, we discussed the subject of prevention. Noise exposure plans are essential for health prevention. What guarantees do we have? Did Charles de Courson's assessment lead you to question this point? Have all infrastructure and assets been valued as they should? What guarantees are included in the contract? That's kind of what Eric Woerth said earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u309	We want concrete!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u310	See, Minister, that it is not a question of facing you face-to-face, but of asking you whether the operation is effective – I do not think it is –, whether the guarantees are sufficient at the time I speak to you – in my view, it is not the case – and to point out that your very beautiful fund for breaking innovation is insufficiently fed – and do not tell us once again that privatisation will be used to feed it because this argument unfortunately does not hold the road for half a second. Finally, competition can lead to great achievements. Previously, there was Orly South and Orly West; There are now four terminals. Was the Aéroports de Paris company unable to invest? I conclude with one last word, that all the Members of Ile-de-France will understand. Tomorrow, if the Aéroports de Paris group is transferred to private operators, the 30 billion, 35 billion or 40 billion euros needed to finance all the infrastructures of the Grand Paris – Gilles Carrez, who was at the maneuver to calculate this amount, is not there – will they be insured under the same conditions? Will additional funding be found? We know very well that an unconnected airport does not work. In this case, what will happen once the airports have been privatized, then it is the State and the communities that carry the Grand Paris project, whose enormous delay in construction projects is known.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u311	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u312	What guarantees do we have? There is no beautiful airport that is not connected. It is therefore likely to lead to a failure in the area of regional planning, to a failure in employment and to a strategic failure for France. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, SOC and GDR groups]] Minister, like you, we have the will to adopt a strategic vision. I do not think that this privatisation is part of this vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u313	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u314	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u315	First of all, I congratulate my colleagues, Mr. Philippe Vigier, in particular, who, despite all the disagreements that may separate us, send the same criticism to the Government, which clearly shows the depth and seriousness of the subject we are addressing. Undoubtedly, this matter is of importance. This is probably one of the largest French privatizations, all sectors combined, and the third worldwide privatization under way. That is to say how much the subject, far from being secondary, is major, strategic, political, almost philosophical. Frankly, in spite of the arguments that are opposed to us – assailed, sometimes – who can think that it would be appropriate to privatize an economic activity that brings about money? I deliberately use the word "privatize" because, in the light of the evolution of economic activity, a concession of seventy years will create conditions such that the State will be unable to do anything other than renew it. Who would think the nation would be better off shutting down the revenue tap, which can be deployed in other sectors? For that is the subject. I hear arguments – sometimes, let us admit, in bad faith – that the state must not take care of a supermarket but focus on its sovereign missions. But what are they, if not missions that, precisely, do not pay for money: education, safety, security, etc.? But how would the state have the means to develop activities in sectors that we want to non-market, if it sells assets in our possession and who, they, earn money? There is no logic here, except that it is a sectarian, ideological will, a form of obstinacy that consists of always responding by the hashtag # balancetonaeroport – you will forgive me this wordplay a little easy by analogy with a serious subject. Indeed, you are constantly replying that you will swing the company, no matter what, because you want to convince us of your logic, when it is a natural monopoly. France remains the world's leading tourist destination. Last year – you will correct me if I am wrong – almost 89 million people came to France. But I hear that we would compete with Frankfurt airport...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u316	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u317	...or I don't know what other destination! You want to make it look like when a stranger wants to come to France, he'll land in Frankfurt?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u318	Go to Frankfurt, you'll see what the airport looks like!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u319	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u320	This absurd argument is not on the road, as you know very well. We must maintain the current situation and feed on the past. In 2013, for example, the State had transferred 13% of ADP's shares, notably to Vinci – a name that we will probably hear again – and to Crédit Agricole. Today, the value of these shares has doubled. Maybe it would have been smarter not to give them up. Let us feed on past examples. You have no relevant arguments, except an ideological baton, which becomes suspicious, consisting in saying that it is absolutely necessary to privatize, by offering a possibility of rent to private groups. I would also like to raise another argument, that of the double cashier: even if a concession is granted to a private group, the purchaser can continue to increase airport charges, making record profits on commercial revenues, especially with the various shops.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u321	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u322	Mr Xavier Huillard, one of Vinci's officials, understood this very well, since he recently said in the press that, at all the airports where Vinci is present, the interesting model was the double cash register. That is the problem. The double caisse leads to a boon effect, due to the recipes made in all the shops. It will in no way prevent airport charges from continuing to increase. We are therefore depriving ourselves of a tool which may be aimed at limiting the charges on the activity, in particular from a strategic point of view, whereas they could in particular enable us to ensure that Air France is not in a difficult situation. I repeat, the arguments you put forward are that we should concentrate on the tasks of the State. But what arguments do you give to convince us to deprive us of what makes it possible to redeploy us to other sectors? I will give one last argument, perhaps the strongest, given the current situation. By your action, you completely de-credible, ridicule, destroy the national debate that you have launched. For months you have been telling the French that we need to talk, that you are bringing our fellow citizens together – very few people, in fact – and that you are getting used to the fact that 166,000 different people have visited the site of the great national debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u323	This is the PACTE law that we are discussing now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u324	Contrary to the lie you make, these 166,000 individual visitors, in three months, say the weakness of the number of people you have gathered. And we should kneel before these citizens, whom I salute, who have taken the time to make a contribution. I would like to inform you that a petition against privatization, launched ten days ago, brought together at least 130,000 French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u325	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u326	You are therefore obstinate in this project, by not posing the debate before the French, by not giving the floor to the real owners of ADP! The group does not belong to you, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It belongs to the French! On a subject of such importance, why not hold a referendum?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u327	Yeah, why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u328	Why not give the French the floor? Why not submit this project to your questionnaire of the national debate, to know what the French think of it? That has been said everywhere. As soon as the topic of privatization was discussed in a meeting, our fellow citizens, fed by the pitiful example of motorways, which was one of the elements of the mobilization of yellow vests, were radically opposed to it. But you don't learn anything! By the form of obstinacy and arrogance of the arguments put forward, by the refusal to submit this major project to the choice of the French, I repeat, you show that, in reality, the national debate that you have proposed to us is only a big bla-bla. In truth, the major strategic decisions that will affect national finances, you have already taken them, against the will of our fellow citizens. It's serious! This shows the embarrassment that you feel because, in the final analysis, no one can understand that we are giving in an activity that brings revenues to the State funds and allows us, in particular, to develop public services, in a country that needs them so much. In the face of this, we are faced with a boon effect which, given the lack of arguments, is marked by a certain opacity. Please understand, ladies and gentlemen – this is not a threat – that once again, the concession introduces doubt about what you are doing. At a time when you tend to see conspiracy everywhere, this decision will keep our fellow citizens feeling that there is an eel under rock. This project, a bad economic choice, is not based on any relevant arguments. Therefore, everyone will come to ask why you want to achieve it, except for a private group, which will be enriched by the weakening of the state. Be careful! I give you this advice because I do not wish the situation in the country to deteriorate. By doing this in a moment of great tension, when our fellow citizens have been mobilized, where they support the movement of yellow vests, you scratch an additional match near a barrel of powder. You create the conditions for an even stronger break between our fellow citizens and the elected ones, and you further weaken the consent to authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u329	You're the one who blows the embers all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u330	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We're here. It would therefore be reasonable to return to simple things: let us keep what constitutes the wealth of the State; we are not embarking on absurd economic adventures; Let us not give up strategic sectors to private interests; let us defend the State, let us defend the Republic. Let's do it for the good of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u331	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u332	In April 2015, the Minister of Economy, Emmanuel Macron, decided to sell Toulouse airport to a Chinese group, a privatisation whose consequences were pointed out by a report of the Court of Auditors in October 2018. It is therefore with a sense of self-esteem that we are now considering Article 44 on the privatisation of Paris airports. This decision is an economic nonsense. Aéroports de Paris is a public establishment that makes profits. In 2017, for the first time, Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle and Parly-Orly airports crossed the 100 million passenger mark. The company paid €200 million in dividends in 2018. Why get rid of a state-related monopoly? Even in the most liberal countries, such as the United States, most airports are public. Once licensed, ADP could increase the fees paid by airlines to benefit from the facilities, which will result in an increase in ticket prices, as well as vehicle parking rates. It's always the user who pays. We are talking about our first border in France. In the context of international and national insecurity, airports allow for close control of migratory flows. Even if the state retained, as we are told, border control through the FAP – the border police – security is not limited to the police. The configuration of buildings and their use must be taken into account. There is a very high risk that the concessionaire will focus on short-term profitability at the expense of the need to maintain safety. For the dealer, it will be much more cost-effective to maximize the commercial surface of the airport and reduce the area dedicated to customs controls. This will not allow control to meet the challenges of our national security. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] This privatization poses serious problems and is not appropriate in the interests of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u333	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u334	Almost everything has been said, so the exercise of the new reading may appear a little repetitive. At first reading, in committee and here, we have already caused much of the aberration of the sale of Paris airports, of what we consider to be false arguments on your part, and of an incomprehension of both the right and the left, of the Senate or of the Council of State. Even if the rehearsal is educational, I don't like to repeat myself. So I will try to take the subject from another end, not a little bit: from the planet. Last week, my team offered me the choice between an hour's plane and seven hours' train to make the trip between Montpellier and Nantes. I chose the train because I feel in a little bubble, I can read and write there without being disturbed by the mobile phone or Telegram; I'm well on the train, isolated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u335	[[Smile]] You're doing a psychoanalysis?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u336	I don't take domestic flights – it's a principle that may seem a little ridiculous in the middle of the disaster, a little derisory in the face of the increasingly inevitable disaster, in the chronicle of an announced collapse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u337	I, I, I...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u338	Air traffic accounts for 3% of greenhouse gas emissions but also, according to the IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – 5% of the radiative effect. The plane pollutes about ten times as much as the bus, forty times as much as the train. A return trip Paris-New York is equivalent to the carbon budget of a Frenchman. All this for a hyperclass hyper-represented here, since only 5% of humanity has already taken the plane and a tiny minority makes it a regular use. Air traffic, we are told, will double by 2050, and everyone applauds: 1200 airports are under construction, which will revive the building; It is estimated that by 2050, air transport could account for 20% of greenhouse gas emissions, not including concreted land. All this damage for something avoidable, because the plane is not a vital need, it is used for leisure or business. The bill for a new railway pact contained eighty-five times the word "competition" and zero times the words "biodiversity", "warming" and "climate". During the debates, the minister of ecological and solidarity transition was absent from these benches. He's still out today. We are talking about finance, budget, billions, digitalization, data storage, security rigor, but still not the essential: still no biodiversity, no warming, no climate, nor our survival together. I would like a minister responsible for ecology on all issues. Just as all the files pass through Bercy, Mr.Le Maire, they should all pass through the ministry of ecological and solidarity transition, including this one. The C, in the acronym PACTE, is that of growth, the sacrosanct growth, this voodoo god that must be prayed to hope for his return. I generally define myself as "increasing," as one is agnostic. But as far as air traffic is concerned, I would like to see a decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u339	Very realistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u340	We need to organize and plan the decline in air traffic. With what tools? First of all, the kerosene must not be detaxed, but must be overtaxed thoroughly. I am in favour of a personal quota of kilometres, valid for each person's lifetime, in order to ensure equal mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u341	With the soviets to control?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u342	Is that popular democracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u343	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] I support a ban on domestic flights in Europe. Every effort must be made to maintain the public nature of airport infrastructure in order to be able to use this tool and, as soon as possible, to remove its profitability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u344	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] No more holidays for the insoumis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u345	Above all, we have to open another imaginary, an imaginary where to slow down and breathe would be possible,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u346	You excel in slowing down the debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u347	We've already slowed down to 80 kilometers per hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u348	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Only Mr Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u349	... where success would no longer mean running from one continent to another. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I look at you, I listen to you, you don't have great words or loud screams, unlike me; You don't have any nerves or big gestures. You calmly speak a reasonable language. And it is very calmly and very reasonably that you send us straight into the ecological wall. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It is to you, to your bill, the young Swedish Greta Thunberg. All you're talking about is moving forward with the same bad ideas that put us in trouble. "I want you to feel the fear that inhabits me every day and act as if there was fire," she said. But you are acting as if it were just about earning dividends over seventy years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u350	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u351	Is Paris airports a monopoly? Bruno Deffains and Thomas Perroud, professors of economics and public law at Panthéon-Assas, asked. What are they telling us? "ADP appears to be in a monopoly position on the market for airport facilities used for air transport to and from Ile-de-France. Indeed, the company has no competitors within 300 kilometres. Its barge area corresponds to about 25 million inhabitants, whose average income is above the French average. "Air transport data indicate that 197 million passengers passed through French airports in 2017. ADP provides approximately 55% of the total, with nearly 102 million passengers. International traffic is increasing steadily and accounts for about 73 per cent of traffic. The usual distinction between Schengen and non-Schengen passengers indicates that 54% of all travellers return to France from non-Schengen destinations. Concerning more specifically ADP, two thirds of passengers are outside Schengen, or about 67 million passengers. "In fact, it seems difficult for an airline wishing to serve France to compose without the platforms of Orly and Roissy which in practice manage a border area between France and the rest of the world. In other words, no company can do without this vital infrastructure credibly as it seems complicated for the 136 companies that carry more than 100 million passengers to connect France to the rest of the world without counting with ADP. Clients are captive and have little room for negotiation to discuss ADP rates. "It is precisely from this situation that the company derives the profitability of its business model. This is reinforced by the fact that France is one of the world's leading tourist destinations and one of Europe's most powerful air hubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u352	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u353	"The steady and sustained growth of air traffic is also to be taken into account" – although some regret it. "The hub also has a privileged space position and transport infrastructure that allows passengers to change flights quickly and easily. "This is how, as the first European hub of the Skyteam alliance, the first French airport, the second European airport, the tenth world-wide passenger hub, Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle hosts the largest share of long-haul flights. "From an economic point of view, we know that any private monopoly company sells its products at a higher price and with a lower quantity than a competitive company. The price of a monopoly is all the higher because the elasticity of demand is low, which seems quite broadly to the case of airport infrastructure users. Indeed, the share of airport charges in airline tickets is quite low and customers of international airport shops and services are fairly largely captive. As regards quality, it also appears that the monopoly company has little incentive to worry about improving the quality of the service rendered. In addition, the increase in traffic regularly leads to saturation of reception capacity. "Without government intervention, a private shareholder of ADP could therefore be encouraged to significantly increase its prices and not improve the quality of its services. » More generally, the quality of ADP's services is critical. For my part, I believe that most of the criticisms must be directed at border police controls, which sometimes last for hours because of the lack of officials present at the counters. This expectation is unworthy of a developed country like France. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In addition, in my view, the State should devote some of the excesses of the Parisian airport structures to cleaning up access roads, which are real dump sites that give a poor image of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u354	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u355	We have been discussing Paris Airport for three hours now and there is still a question that has not been answered: why? Why do you want to privatize? I have a theory: you don't want to be the ones who put the 100 per cent of GDP mark on debt. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u356	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u357	This symbolic bar is the only reason why you privatize ADP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u358	You're the ones who raised the debt from 60 per cent to 100 per cent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u359	Therefore, you beautify things. In the Government and in the majority, you lose yourself in explanations and in elucidations, one denying the other, the other going further than one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u360	It's the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u361	In reality, you are trying to dress your measure, which is purely symbolic: it is a matter of avoiding Emmanuel Macron from being and remaining in history the President of the Republic who has passed to the debt of France the bar of 100% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u362	The process has been well initiated by the Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u363	I understand you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because we are entering the period of the European elections. You are giving lessons to the whole of Europe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u364	To the whole world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u365	...to the whole world. You're going to tell us that previous governments have their share of debt responsibility – it's never your fault, of course – but don't forget that your government was, in 2018, the one that recorded the worst budget deficit and the worst trade balance in the euro area!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u366	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u367	Who took France out of the excessive deficit procedure?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u368	All this follows the same logic. The excess of the 100% of GDP by debt is entirely your fault. That's why you want to privatize Aéroports de Paris. Why did we get there? You refused to take the bold steps that were required, namely a massive reduction in public spending – not the sale of family jewellery. In one year, you committed 44 billion euros of additional public spending instead of reducing them, which would have allowed you to keep Aéroports de Paris in the crown of the state, which would therefore have received all the dividends. Another question now arises: in order to avoid passing the bar I have quoted, as you have understood that this privatisation would not be enough – it will only bring about 3 billion or 4 billion euros – you must also take tax measures. So you started out in a Lepine Tax Contest. For example, according to the comments of the members of the majority The Republic on the move, it would be a question of increasing inheritance taxes, deindexing pensions, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u369	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u370	You mean "reindex"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u371	You unindexed them! That's what you voted for!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u372	...to restore a carbon tax, raise the rate of the IFI – the property tax – and even introduce income tax for all. That's what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u373	We're supposed to be talking about the PACTE bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u374	However, I repeat, in order to reduce debt, we must not privatize but, above all, cut spending. You have a short-term vision. You will dress up your privatization to make it acceptable to each other. However, who can believe for a second that the 250 million a year provided by the break-up innovation fund will be enough to take France a course, while elsewhere, large countries and large companies invest tens, if not hundreds, of billions of euros accumulated?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u375	Find the funds!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u376	In fact, unfortunately, it will not do much, and we regret it. I repeat, you are looking to dress up a political and symbolic measure. We cannot endorse that. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why the Republican Group will vote in the majority against this privatisation, which runs counter to France's interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u377	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u378	As we have seen for a few hours now, there are two oppositions to this project. On the one hand, there is a deep-rooted, ideological opposition to privatization; It is a line on which the Communist Party, for example, has never changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u379	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u380	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, there is a much more surprising opposition, expressed by a part of the right. I experienced a time when this sensitivity had more liberal convictions, when it considered competition to be a source of economic progress,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u381	This change should alert you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u382	... favourable to employment, but also to research and development, whose objective may be, for example, to achieve better results in terms of impact on the territory or the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u383	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u384	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You're never in the caricature! This new vision, which you seem to be defending, is extremely conservative. It's a fallback that says a lot about your pessimistic vision of the world. Naturally, privatized ADP will be able to experience a growth that it could not have achieved with the shareholder state,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u385	Why is that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u386	...and not just on the French market. ADP privatised will bring much more to our country, as one of your colleagues, Nicolas Forissier, said perfectly. This opposition from part of the right is objectively surprising. It should raise questions, in particular from entrepreneurs, who await the measures contained in the CAPTE law, but also from those who rely on the funds that will be made available to finance break-up innovation. What is surprising, if not disturbing, is that you instill more or less subliminal...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u387	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u388	...or rather subtle, forgivable, that privatization would be a loss of sovereignty or undermine our ability to control.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u389	There's nothing subliminal here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u390	And nothing subtle either, my dear colleague... The big bad wolf is not far away! However, this disposal of assets does not take place without rules and obligations for ADP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u391	We'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u392	The articles we are going to examine set out guarantees for the control of the future ADP company by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u393	Did you read them? Nobody read them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u394	By drawing up a strict specification, the State will set the expected level of performance in terms of public airport service and the amount of charges. It will give its approval to leaders on issues related to platform operation and security. I conclude with the environmental issues, which have been raised by several colleagues. Members of Parliament whose constituency is close to Roissy or Orly – that is my case –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u395	It's mine too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u396	...know how difficult it is to reduce nuisances. However, on this point, the brakes come much more from air traffic control, i.e. from the state, than from private actors such as airlines or Paris Airports. Nevertheless, aware of the concerns that might be felt by the residents, in particular as a result of the alarmist interventions of some colleagues in our territories, the Government has pledged to provide additional guarantees. We will thus enshrine in the law the ceiling of the slots and the curfew which prohibits landings and take-off at Orly between twenty-three hours thirty and six hours. I welcome this decision, Minister. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to step out of positions and to accompany the strategist State in winning choices for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u397	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u398	I would like to respond to Mrs Guévenoux's comments. In her view, it is particularly surprising that the opposition to privatization comes from both ranks that have always opposed, as a matter of principle, any form of privatization and a right that is usually inclined to privatize and hand over to the private sector, considering that the private sector does better than the public in a number of matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u399	From them, it's just posture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u400	In fact, you should ask yourself why you find each other in the same opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u401	Wouldn't it be by pure political calculation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u402	The answer is linked – I am not going to speak for the Republican Group – to the fact that this is a particular subject and a singular privatisation. This therefore warrants a two-time review of the case before making this decision. That is why, together, in an uncoordinated manner, we are trying to make you understand. As you know, the question is not simply a financial one, it is first of all a question of sovereignty. This has been said repeatedly in the course of the debate, the main border of France is its airports, which accommodate 110 million passengers per year and will receive 120 million passengers by 2022. The issue also concerns our land heritage. In Île-de-France, the main land reserves are owned by Aéroports de Paris. But you are going to grant this huge land reserve to private companies, who will know how to make it profitable in our place and place. In addition, Minister, you have been reminded, these days, of a reality: the previous government, of which Emmanuel Macron was part, had privatized Toulouse airport, and you have to do with the result. Do we want to learn from a failed experiment? Do we want to understand that the Chinese consortium has had a rapacious behavior more than it has been at the origin of new developments, since it has not fulfilled any of the commitments it has made in terms of mobility, particularly with regard to the metro? Today, it seeks to realize a huge surplus value, in the context of a purely financial operation. Are we not going to take this into account? Everyone should think about something else. You propose a concession of seventy years, at the end of which you will have to compensate the shareholders. Worse still, you are considering indemnifying ADP's minority shareholders. In this operation, as we can see, we will lose several times. Mr Minister, as a close collaborator of Dominique de Villepin, you have had a particular experience, that of the privatisation of French motorways. You know the consequences, you know the price we paid for it and the price the French still pay. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I remind you that among those who fought courageously against this privatisation, there were, of course, socialists and communists, the left,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u403	And also the boss of MODEM!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u404	...but also François Bayrou. He was not the last to protest against this decision, with a certain virulence, with courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u405	The operation is not of the same nature, Mr Faure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u406	You know the lessons of the privatization of Toulouse airport...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u407	But there are also those in Nice and Lyon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u408	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] ...and that of the French motorways. The question put to the majority is as follows: are you going to make any use of it or will you blindly follow the Government in an ideological decision which also has as its foundation the will to mask the breach of the threshold of 100 % of GDP by public debt, as our colleague Pierre-Henri Dumont reminded us right now? The French will blame you for this decision for a long time. Think and make sure she can't intervene.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u409	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u410	Not so long ago, at the end of 2017, one of the few amendments to the finance law that we managed to pass asked the Government for a report on motorways; It was even voted unanimously. We are seeking in vain who, within the various groups, is still defending the privatisation of motorways, as this has proved to be both a bad affair for the state and a scandal in many respects. If you go so far as to vote on this bill, I very much fear that we will find ourselves in exactly the same situation in fifteen years: I believe that those who want to impose this privatization on us today will then shave the walls.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u411	They won't be here anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u412	[[Smile]] Bruno Le Maire will always be here! He survived all the diets!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u413	Perhaps some will no longer be there, but those who will remain will not, I think, claim the wrong business for the country they are about to engage. You tell us that this operation is very different. First, I have heard you say for two days, Minister, that this is not privatization. You and the Prime Minister could almost think that there is a nationalisation behind privatization! It would not be privatization, but only a concession granted. However, it is sufficient to refer to your statements in committee to see that you were recently in favour of privatisation in a competitive sector, which absolutely had to be achieved. Moreover, the fact that it is a concession does not change the case. I would point out that motorways have also been granted and that the State is no longer a shareholder. In this case, you're about to sell all the shares. What's more, you plan that the state will have to buy back the money invested if it wants to recover the airports at the end of the concession. We can also think that we will be told, if the case arises, that the State has other investments to make. Concession, privatisation, all this is not important. What you're proposing to us is a sale of all the shares that the state holds in ADP, which means privatization. Secondly, we are told that this is not a monopoly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u414	Not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u415	I know that, dear colleague. You showed, by quoting two lawyers, that it was obviously one. Knowing that almost 80 per cent of domestic and international air transport goes through Île-de-France, what else is a monopoly? To tell us that this is not a monopoly, it is, again, to play with words, and it will not pass, if I may say so, the wall of the convinced. Thirdly, we are told that the privatization of motorways has been a bad business for the State because it has been very improvised and the assets have been sold at an abnormally low price. In a way, however, you are facing the same uncertainties. One day, Mr. Griveaux announced that the state would retain 20% of the capital. A few hours later, he revealed in a tweet that this decision was being called into question. You tell us yourself that you don't know what will happen. Will the Vinci group buy the entire ADP? Will there be several shareholders, among them the Franciscan departments? In fact, you have us sign a blank cheque to perform an operation that is absolutely unlined and feels improvisation. Fourthly, you ask us why the state would keep shopping malls or hotels. I would remind you that, while 60% of ADP's turnover is directly related to aeronautics, the rest, including commercial and hotel activities, also depends on the presence of one airport: it is in this sense, and not in the other, that it works. If you want to convince us that we can privatize shops and hotels, why not? In this case, let us consider an operation on these sectors, not on all airports. New Yorkers are not privatized; they remain public property, which does not prevent, at certain times, the assignment of tasks, particularly commercial ones, to the private sector. Again, your argument doesn't hold. At last, on the financial level, we have all told you and say again so clearly in view of the figures: you are preparing a bad business! The dividends paid today by all the companies you plan to privatize are three times higher than the interest you expect to earn from the investment fund: on the one hand, there is 250 million euros a year; on the other, three times more. The dividends from Paris airports alone will pay as much as the interest you promise us. Yesterday, Mrs Rabault made a proposal: if you want to pay funds to the investment, change the dividends reported by ADP! There is another possibility. Everyone knows that interest rates are very low. That is why I cannot help smiling, when I hear that our country is on the brink of bankruptcy. Everyone wants to lend to France. You know that, given the level of interest rates, lower than expected, you will recover part of the $10 billion envelope you had us vote on a few weeks ago. If you really want to get 250 million euros, buy an extra loan instead. This will cost us 2 million dollars a year, which, over seven years, will be much cheaper for the nation than the privatization of ADP. Finally, you promise that the operation is surrounded by guarantees. I'd like to know about the job guarantees. Privatisation of motorways has been characterized by job cuts and job losses. ADP accounts for 5% of regional GDP and 8% of regional employment – that is, the importance of this group. There is no evidence that its privatization will not be a bad blow to employment. We have referred you to the privatisation of Toulouse airport, which is now in question. You ensure that you have learned the lesson and that there will be no transfer to States, which will limit the risk of interference. But how would the influence of pension funds, Goldman Sachs or the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec be less important, including with regard to political pressure or in financial terms, than that of a state? There is no guarantee in the specification on this point. By the way, Mr Le Maire recently announced to the Special Committee that he would have a specification – specifying that it was a regulatory rather than a mandatory one – in order to reassure us. I am surprised that it took 11:30 a.m. this morning for Olivia Gregoire to send a document on our e-mail. And what a document! It's to fall to the ground. It's all about headlines!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u416	It's called a summary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u417	Do you want some examples? "Article 25: Special provisions on safety"; No details. "Article 32: General safety"; No details. "Article 48a"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u418	I repeat, this is a summary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u419	Earlier, will we vote on an article without knowing the specifications for the regulation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u420	We will answer you when we can speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u421	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] Do you think we'll be satisfied with the summary? That the country will be satisfied with the summary of the specifications? Will it provide us with social and environmental guarantees, as well as security guarantees, as you have claimed? Once again, it smells of improvisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u422	The minister will answer you when you let him speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u423	[[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] I hope that before we consider Rule 45, we will receive a serious specification, otherwise I will ask for the floor for a point of order. It is not normal for the House to debate under such conditions. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In conclusion, it turns out that the privatization of ADP is a bad financial and economic affair, that it poses a security problem, that it will lead to the privatization of border control. In these circumstances, why are you doing it? In whose interest? It is by answering the second question that we will solve the first. In any case, one thing is certain: you do not act in the interests of the homeland.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u424	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u425	In any case, it will not be possible to say that the debate on the privatisation of ADP has been staggered: eight hours of general intervention, working hours in special committee, after hours of discussion at first reading. We went, I think, to the bottom of the subject, and so much the better: everyone was able to explain their position. I have heard repeated arguments that have been put forward on many occasions. As a result, some developments seemed a little repetitive to me. Others are new. I'll answer it. Others are finally inadmissible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am thinking in particular of those of Mr Dupont-Aignan who, for lack of convincing arguments, use and abuse conspiracy theory, suspicion and slander. He scorned us by saying that the minister was not listening to him. I think I've given you all the time I had. He, on the other hand, goes, comes and leaves television sets like the National Assembly. Because he's gone from all over the place, he's gone nowhere. However, I would like to respond to his serious accusations, suspicions of collusion or conspiracy by the state to serve private interests. Bank of America Merrill Lynch was selected as a consulting bank for this operation on November 21, 2017. Mr Bernard Mourad, targeted by Mr Dupont-Aignan, joined this consulting bank a year later. He is not responsible for this bank, nor is he responsible for the privatisation of Paris airports. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] By playing on suspicion, by invoking this conspiracy theory, we serve democracy and the public mind, we damage them. I say this to Mr Dupont-Aignan, who could have had the correction to wait in the Chamber for all the speakers to speak to hear my answer. I would also like to point out that Vinci will obviously not benefit from any privilege since we have adopted a transparent procedure: we will make a call for tenders based on criteria which will be placed under the double control of the Commission des participations et des transferments and the judge. While some feel that the Commission des participations et des transferments or the French justice system are not sufficient guarantors for the neutrality of the operation, as they say, I believe that these arguments must be removed immediately if we are to have a calm debate. It will be the best-supposed to prevail under the conditions laid down in the specifications. There will be no will, I said it and I repeat it for Mr Charles de Courson. Local and regional authorities may, if they so wish, participate in the invitation to tender. Finally, Mr Woerth, all disposal options remain on the table, with or without maintaining a state interest in ADP's capital. We have not wasted our time by devoting so much to the disposal of the assets of Paris Airports. This is indeed an important operation, and above all it makes sense, in my view. I have been asked – more than ten times – why we want to achieve it. The question is legitimate. We do it first to get out of debt. We do so because we believe that every euro spent on France's debt relief is well spent. You don't think the amount is enough? Isn't it always the case? In any case, I believe that this is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u426	Then why did you delete the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u427	We then do so in order to finance the break-up innovation fund, which will benefit from a guaranteed annual income of 250 million, or 2.5 billion over ten years. I am told that all I have to do is take the dividends of ADP, which fall as in Gravelotte; I'm even assured they'll always be at the same level. I only note, with the supporting figures, that the Paris Airport price, because of the tension on the assets, has fallen from 200 to 160 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u428	But for the last ten years, he's gone up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u429	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] If you want to put the future of French innovation and technology in the hands of the Stock Exchange, it's great for you! To finance innovation, I prefer to have guaranteed income. Thirdly, we are doing this operation, as Charles de Courson rightly pointed out, as part of an international development strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u430	The ADP Group is already international!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u431	As Mr. Forissier has said remarkably, there is fierce competition between large international hubs to attract companies and flights, to develop niches and services. If we want ADP, the flagship of the global airport industry, to develop internationally, the concession is the best solution. [[Mrs. Amélie de Montchalin applauds]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond these elements, the operation is important in redefining the respective place of the state and private sector enterprises in the French economy. I have had the opportunity to respond at length to Mr Mélenchon, who defends a completely different view of this subject from mine. For years and years, I have been asserting that, in order to guarantee and protect the general interest, the State is just as effective in acting through regulation as it is by being present in the capital of companies. This is how it will guarantee the general interest for ADP: by strengthening the regulation – I will return to it – rather than by keeping to the capital of the company. The majority and the opposition do not defend the same vision of the economy. Each vision is legitimate, but ours has our coherence and our strength. I note, moreover, and it is interesting, that this subject is challenging the political maps between the different parties. Some, who strongly supported privatization when their presidential candidate was in favour, suddenly became hostile to privatization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u432	Was the privatization of ADP included in your presidential programme, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u433	Others, who were against it, were convinced by the Government's arguments. Others, who were also against, did not change their opinion, it was their consistency. And there are those who, like me, have always been for the clarification of the role of the State and remain attached to it, which has the merit of consistency and conviction. I note that, on this subject, dividing lines can go through political formations. Thus, this very morning, the president of the Republicans declared himself, which is his right, hostile to the privatization of Paris Airports, but another prominent figure, Valérie Pécresse, president of the Île-de-France region, said this morning that she is not opposed to it, subject to guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u434	Guarantees you don't fill out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u435	On this subject, the dividing lines therefore go even through the political formations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u436	But 90% of French people are against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u437	In any case, at Les Républicains, the president of the party and the president of the first region of France must grant their violins.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u438	No! Mr. Wauquiez and Mrs. Pécresse say the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u439	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You asked me about the place that local authorities could occupy in the operation. This place can be large and the Île-de-France region, first concerned with the divestiture, is welcome to the board of directors of Paris Airports. I come to the guarantees, which have raised many questions on all the benches of this House. They are at the heart of the operation that we will submit to your vote, therefore at the discretion of the French people. First of all, I will take back my old hat as Minister of Agriculture, responsible for land use planning, to answer you about perhaps the most important thing I care about. Mr. Descoeur asked me about access to small lines and their development. No one can be satisfied with the current situation, with regional services – "small services", as they say – being disadvantaged. All those who travel regularly in France – which is my case and my happiness – find themselves in uncomfortable planes, which land at the end of the last runway of Charles de Gaulle airport or Orly, after which it takes twenty minutes to reach the terminal. This is the current situation, even though the ADP group is held 50.6 per cent by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u440	What will it be tomorrow...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u441	We'll all land in Beauvais!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u442	That is why the State's presence in capital does not guarantee a good local service or the protection of the territories. [[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] I therefore hope that we will improve the situation, that we will strengthen the guarantees for small lines. We have decided, with Elizabeth Borne, to multiply by four the budget which will be devoted, in 2019, to the financing of small airlines providing regional services. The Civil Aviation Code, which is exclusively the responsibility of the public authority, will be strengthened to also guarantee regional services. Finally, many of you have opposed me the example of Toulouse, which is a repulsive example in that it illustrates the consequences to which privatisation can lead, but no one has mentioned, except Nicolas Forissier, the success of the privatisation of Lyon airport, which has not prevented the maintenance of all the small lines, in particular the one linking Lyon to La Rochelle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u443	For how long?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u444	Therefore, do not establish a misleading link between privatization and the deterioration of small lines; I believe strictly the opposite. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Several of you have asked me, in particular Mr Pupponi, about another topic: the environment, health and noise. This last, very important question, was at the heart of the reflections of MPs Naïma Moutchou, Zivka Park and Robin Reda, in his capacity as local elected. This case must be taken in arms-to-body because noise nuisances to the detriment of residents and the environment are vital to the success of the operation. We will take all necessary steps to improve the current situation. Once again, after privatisation, local authorities will be offered more guarantees, on the one hand because they will be included in the law, on the other hand because, if they so wish, they will be able to enter, through the departments, the capital of Aéroports de Paris. You see, therefore, that for these two reasons, the guarantees that we offer to the residents will be strengthened at the end of the operation. I'm going to be even more precise because I don't want any ambiguity about the guarantees we bring you. The air pollution tax will increase from EUR 45 million to EUR 55 million, and from EUR 24 million to EUR 30 million for Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle, which will make it possible to save five years for the soundproofing of buildings eligible for the fight against noise pollution. We will strengthen article R. 227-7 of the Civil Aviation Code, on the public inquiry prior to a change in air traffic, to ensure better consultation of residents. I repeat this to all the deputies of the departments concerned: the residents, thanks to the amendment of the Civil Aviation Code, will be better consulted after the privatisation than they are at present.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u445	There's no need to privatize to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u446	In addition, we will generalize the immediate descents to Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle from 2023. At present, many aircraft rotate around the airport pending approval to land, causing noise pollution; So we're going to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u447	That too you can do without privatizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u448	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u449	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Finally, the contribution of Aéroports de Paris to the noise compensation fund, which is currently voluntary, will become compulsory after the disposal of assets. Enhanced resources will therefore be allocated to the fight against noise pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u450	It's not the result of privatization!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u451	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Coquerel, I am just describing to you the legal reality, the one on which you are voting, which is naturally linked to the divestiture operation. For the last two years this debate has been going on, you have asked us for guarantees; I have received and listened to all parliamentarians who wish to do so in order to provide them with the guarantees they ask for, and I am now replying to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u452	Don't waste public money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u453	Of course, Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle is lagging behind in carrying out certain works. Again, we received associations of local residents to understand what was happening. Aéroports de Paris will therefore commit €77 million to finance the works and reduce the stock of housing to be soundproofed. Finally, in the next regulatory contract, the State will ask for an investment envelope to reduce noise pollution. So you see that, on the issue of noise nuisances, the environment, respect for the residents and communities around us, we have taken the problem with arms, and we are providing you with concrete, immediate and realistic answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u454	This does not justify privatization!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u455	The third round of guarantees obviously deals with the major subject of tariffs. Everyone said, in their own way, that we were repeating the mistake that had been made for motorways and that, as a result, tariffs would explode and the consumer would be penalized. It is not the same operation, and it is not the same guarantees. To all those who have personally challenged me, I will reply that I am used to learning from my mistakes. If an error has been made with regard to motorway tariffs, it will not happen again with regard to the privatisation of Paris airports. Comparison with highways, if you allow me this easy pun, doesn't hold the road or, better, doesn't fly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u456	Your arguments are crashing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u457	It's not the same operation at all. The regulatory contract sets tariffs for five years, while the privatisation of motorways did not determine them. I will add an argument that has completely disappeared from the debate while it is not negligible: Air France participates in the discussion on fares and can therefore make its point of view – even if airport fares, I would remind you, represent only 5% of the costs and costs incurred by Air France. However, the State has the last word on the setting of airport fares. If the State and the future concessionaire fail to find common ground on the level of tariffs for the next five years, the State will set them freely, sovereignly, and will continue to do so every year, until an agreement is reached. Charles de Courson, who, as usual, studied the case thoroughly, alerted us to the fact that the State should not have an excessive right and that the procedure should be monitored. We have therefore foreseen that the Authority for the Independent Supervision of Airport Charges would give a assent on the level of tariff that would be set by the State in the absence of agreement with the concessionaire. As far as tariffs are concerned, many of you have rightly raised the issue of the weighted average cost of capital. In the highways case, what happened? Interest rates were so low that the weighted average cost of capital fell to a very low level, causing the internal rate of return on motorways to explode. In other words, the cost of capital has decreased, the rates have increased and the concessionaire has been particularly successful. This cannot be the case at Paris airports. As the Authority for the Independent Supervision of Airport Charges has the formal right to reassess the cost of capital every five years, it can prevent a situation of superprofit in the event of a fall in the cost of capital. As you can see, the scissor effect we experienced as a result of the privatisation of motorways will not be able to reproduce for Aéroports de Paris since the State, under the control of the Autorité de Surveillance Indépendant, sets the tariffs itself. Let us stay on the financial issue, which is vital. You're telling me that we're at risk of losing an asset, which is going to devalue itself year after year. This will not be the case since the State will be able to impose investments on Aéroports de Paris, if the concessionaire decides to give up some of them. Should we build Terminal 4 of Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle? I do not have the answer to this question, which is the subject of intense debate. I'm just saying that, if the State considers it essential, for the success of Paris Airports and to value a heritage that we intend to recover after seventy years, to build Terminal 4, and that the concessionaire recedes in the face of the scale of the investment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u458	He would prove that he was not interested in investing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u459	...the State will be able to remind it of its obligations. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Another essential question, in the event that the concessionaire fails to comply with the commitments set out in the specifications, is it certain that it can be forced to carry them out, will you ask me? The draft law contains two very clear provisions on this subject: the State, after scrutiny, can impose a penalty of up to 2% of the turnover; Moreover, in the event of repeated breaches, it may terminate the concession on the ground that the concessionaire has failed to comply with its legal commitments resulting from the text which you, representatives of the French people, have adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u460	But you still don't explain why you're privatizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u461	I come to the fourth guarantee: employment. Mr. Little asked that the terms of reference of the employment provisions be added. The draft law contains two major provisions in this area: firstly, the Staff Regulations of Paris Airports will not be amended; Secondly, the specifications will set out obligations, which will ensure guarantees in the field of employment. We have accepted your amendment, Mr Little: it is now included in the terms of reference. Moreover, no transfer of land will be possible without the formal agreement of the State. The State, at the end of the concession,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u462	Seventy years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u463	... will recover the entire Paris Airport concession, which it is now obliged to share, up to 49.4%, with private actors with unlimited operating rights over time. I'm going to the financial guarantees. It goes without saying that, if the operation is not financially good, the state will not do it: it is the best financial guarantee we can provide. If we want to sell now, it's for a simple reason: the asset has been well valued. Moreover, at the end of this discussion on Article 44, I would like to pay tribute to the staff of Paris Airport, to its management, to the management that has been conducted. If the state can do a good heritage operation today...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u464	How is it good? It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u465	[[Excamations on a few benches of the GDR Group]] ... and a good investment to finance tomorrow's innovation is because Paris Airport staff have been at the meeting for several years. I want to rule out one last argument which I can see is that as the discussion moves forward, it is becoming less and less used: the idea that we would privatize borders. The borders, which guarantee sovereignty, are in the hands of the State, the public authorities, the police, the gendarmerie, our armed forces, and they will remain so! Whether it is property, people or air traffic, it is public service missions that will remain in the hands of the public authorities. In the end, the great question that has animated all our debates and which is at the heart of the long exchanges that we have had on Aéroports de Paris, is not only the fate of this company, airport traffic, shops, hotels; The real question is sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u466	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u467	Good reason not to privatize!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u468	What is sovereignty in the 21st century? For me, these are borders and new technologies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u469	That's it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u470	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With the operation on Aéroports de Paris, we will maintain borders under the protection of public power and invest in technological innovation to remain a major global economic power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u471	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-14-O1177.u472	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the new reading of the Business Growth and Transformation Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
