ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law on catch-up programming and sustainable development in Mayotte (No 1907 corrected, 2029).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u2	In the general debate, Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u3	What a pleasure and even an honour to talk about Mayotte in our Chamber! Mayotte is a deeply French territory. Since 1841, Mayotte has since continued to demonstrate his commitment to France, which was confirmed during the self-determination consultation in 1974, and then in 2011, with the adoption of the status of department. Yet, perhaps more than any other French territory, Mayotte suffers. The island has particularly important specific needs, as the rapporteur pointed out: Mayotte is in a critical situation. Various reports, including that of a general inspection of the State, note that Mayotte suffers from a delay of equipment and an undoubted delay in the implementation of social rights. Infrastructures for the transport of goods and people are saturated, both at sea and on land; airport facilities are still undersized, not to mention the digital divide, which handicaps both the economic actors and the inhabitants of Mayotte. The demographic and economic situation is also particularly difficult. Mayotte is experiencing the record poverty – 84% of the population lives below the poverty line – and the record extra cost of the average basket of consumer products compared to the national average – imagine that it is 73%! It should be added that 55 per cent of the population is under the age of 20 years. Moreover, the problem of immigration, which is overwhelming, well known by the rapporteur, exacerbates these difficulties. The figures speak for themselves: half of the island's population is foreign and, for the most part, irregular. However, this territory has great environmental wealth, which, as you have pointed out, must be preserved and protected by the Minister for Overseas Affairs. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Mayotte lagoon, the largest in the Indian Ocean, with its 1100 square kilometres, represents 25% of the world's reef biodiversity! However, as a result of population growth of 4% and anarchic urbanization, the Maori ecosystem is at risk of disappearing if we do not act quickly. The efforts of our citizens in Mayotte and local authorities for self-sustaining economic growth are considerable. They want their territory finally to be equipped with basic structural equipment, which is essential for the sustainable development of employment. The Mahorais aspire to take part in the economic and cultural influence of France and Europe by making the one-hundred-and-first department a growing market access hub for East and Southern Africa. I will say a word, Madam Minister, about the figures that have been outlined in committee and that you have made clear. We are pleased to acknowledge the efforts made by the State and the means put on the table to support the development of the overseas countries and territories. But we cannot accept that confusion arises over the reality of the additional effort of the State in signing the convergence contract for Mayotte: EUR 1.1 billion, that sounds well in the ear; However, in the end, between the measures previously announced, notably in the 2018 plan, and the new lines, the number and volume of which are very small, this is more like a recycling of yesterday's promises than a complementary effort. Above all, the plan does not provide for any financial programming of the major infrastructure for opening up and regional outreach advocated by the rapporteur, nor for any increase in allocations to the communities, which, however, are far below the per capita average. It's simply not enough. The situation I have described calls for much broader and more ambitious action. A real additional effort is needed to establish a basis for catching up that will enable us to embark on the sustainable development that we hope for. That is the purpose of this bill. I welcome the exceptional work and unwavering determination of our rapporteur in serving his territory and his development in the Republic. Mansour Kamardine is deeply republican, he is a true ambassador of his territory and he honours France. Our group's proposal for a law is simple: it plans, over ten years, to catch up with basic infrastructure, to establish equal social rights and to preserve the island's environment, for an overall amount of almost EUR 1 billion over ten years. This programming is necessary to bring visibility and above all to ensure structuring financial commitments. First, the proposed law suggests upgrading the mobility and interconnection transport infrastructure, including the construction of a converging runway at Dzaoudzi-Pamandzi airport and a third landing dock in the deep water port of Longoni, as well as the development of national roads. While we have just discussed mobility for almost fifteen days, this text is at the time of mobility for the Mahorais. It also supports the establishment, as soon as possible, of digital coverage of the whole territory, from which all its economic actors and inhabitants would benefit. Two days ago, in this Chamber, we referred to the reduction of the digital divide in metropolitan France; Don't forget Mayotte. Secondly, our bill is aimed at making social equality effective. The strict application of the Social Security Code should be imposed, thus making the right to social benefits effective for every citizen. Here I am thinking in particular of the RSA – the income from active solidarity – or the retirement pensions, which are still not paid as they should. The text also introduces a minimum contribution which is in line with the common system for persons who can justify 160 quarters of professional activity. It also provides for the calculation of retirement pensions on the basis of the metropolitan social security ceiling. Finally, at the time of the climate emergency and the defense of biodiversity, we propose a low carbon trajectory, based on the production of solar photovoltaic energy and gas by methanization, as well as support for the preservation of natural and agricultural spaces, in order to eliminate, in the long term, pollutants and other chemicals. Mahora biodiversity is an asset to ensure the future of the island. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The political family I represent is deeply attached, like others here, to overseas and to their development. This bill is a clear testimony to this. We bear responsibility for these territories and must accompany them on the path to sustainable and autonomous economic and social development. We wish to share this commitment and give you the opportunity, by adopting this bill this evening, to defend together, with one voice, one of those territories that contribute so much to our global economic and cultural influence! The Republican Group will of course support the rapporteur in his fight. Long live Mayotte! Long live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u4	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u5	Mayotte is fully registered in our Republic: French territory since 1843, it became a department in 2011 following a referendum with an unambiguous result. Yet this territory faces many difficulties and an undeniable delay in terms of infrastructure. Your proposal for a law, Mr Kamardine, is an opportunity for this House to pay close attention to the specificities of the mahorans. At the outset, I would like to welcome the quality of the report that you have prepared: it provides a precise and detailed overview of the infrastructure of your archipelago; It is a useful complement to the information report of the Chair of the Law Commission and her two Vice-Chairs, who were more interested in the issues of the rule of law as well as in the economic and social aspects. The department of Mayotte is indeed faced with many difficulties. Strong population growth and migratory pressure: in Mayotte, half of the population is under seventeen years old and the number of inhabitants has almost doubled in twenty years. This leads to anarchic urban development at the source of safety and unsanitary problems – many homes lack basic sanitary comfort and a total connection to electricity. Maori infrastructure is lagging behind, whether in terms of road, air or sea transport, Internet access, sanitation or waste management. Your proposal for a law and your report make it possible to highlight a reality that is often hidden: Mayotte has a real environmental richness, including a marine natural park and a coral reef 160 kilometres long; It's a treasure that needs to be protected. We share the observation of urgency. Moreover, the Government made a very clear commitment in May 2018 by proposing an important action plan, the overall cost of which is estimated at 1.3 billion euros, excluding national education staff. Let us come to the substance of this bill. If we can agree on the diagnosis, I regret to say that we strongly disagree on the solutions to the various problems. You propose only one answer axis: a funding effort of EUR 995 million over ten years and a shift of these additional appropriations towards certain infrastructures. I am pleased to acknowledge that some of the projects you are putting forward are necessary and useful for the development of Mayotte. Nevertheless, the method seems questionable to me. Indeed, I do not share the logic that additional funding would be sufficient to solve most of the problems. Instead, we should work on the structural brakes that remain to be lifted. During the Spring of the evaluation, we found an under-consumption of the overseas mission's appropriations for 2018, which is mainly due to the difficulty of implementing certain projects in an efficient, sustainable and pragmatic manner. Moreover, you wish to include in the law a large part of the content of the convergence plan which must be concluded between the State and the department of Mayotte. This approach does not seem appropriate and the legislative level does not seem appropriate. Let us leave it to local actors to negotiate with the State the projects to be developed as a matter of priority within the framework of this convergence plan. Furthermore, I think it is our duty as parliamentarians to think pragmatically and realistically about the financing of our proposals. You are planning to finance the annual €99.5 million required by the tax on infra-day financial transactions. For the record, this tax, which had been adopted in the PLF for 2017, was removed by the PLF for 2018, just prior to its entry into force, as it was technically impossible to implement. It had also been strongly criticized by the Court of Auditors for a high risk of litigation with foreign investors. Finally, I would like to point out that the exceptional investment fund is able to fund a large part of the projects that you put forward in the bill. The fund, established in 2009, was significantly resized in 2019, from €40 million to €110 million. This is a state financial aid to public persons who make investments in public utilities in overseas countries and territories that contribute to local economic, social, environmental and energy development. Mayotte benefits particularly from the EIF since in 2018 the department absorbed 30% of the funding. Therefore, the EUR 70 million increase in the EIF should make it possible to finance several of the projects mentioned in the draft law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, the MODEM Group fully shares Mayotte's observation of the specific difficulties and the urgency to remedy them. The environment and energy production are also important issues, you are right. However, we believe that the bill provides only a partial and questionable response, and we prefer to support the Government's strategy for Mayotte, which we believe is more ambitious and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u6	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u7	Mayotte's proposal for a law on catch-up programming and sustainable development aims to combat equipment delays and delays in the implementation of social rights in this department, and to make it a zero carbon territory, an environmental objective that we can only share. Mr rapporteur, you are planning financial programming for an exceptional effort to catch up with infrastructure. Of course, the members of the Socialist and related group agree that these delays are unacceptable. Mayotte is a rich and beautiful land that brings together so many men and women with diverse stories, cultures, traditions and languages. This diversity makes France an honour to bring it together in a common project. Mayotte has been a French land since 1841. In every referendum or consultation – in 1974, 1976 and 2000 – the Mahorais confirmed their attachment to France, their carnal bond to our homeland and their unwavering desire to continue to take place within our Republic. Mayotte waited more than half a century to reach this ideal which was so dear to him: to become a French department. The fight for departmentalization has mobilized several generations. In 2009, it was the choice of the Republic. Of course, this choice honors us; At the same time, he forces us. I know how much it has generated significant changes and profound upheavals for Mayotte, for the Mahorais and for the general balance of society. I know the fears and misunderstandings that have arisen among our fellow citizens. Our responsibility has always been to respond to them and to meet all the challenges facing us. The poor development, the lack of infrastructure, the pressure on migration and the difficulties faced by young people are not yet behind us. The stages of the implementation of the départementalisation were inscribed, ten long years ago, in the pact for the départementization of Mayotte. Then, as early as 2012, President François Hollande made sure that the process of convergence towards the common law was accelerated and that it went faster than the pact for département. Upgrading of the RSA and indexing were the first steps. The method was declined in three stages, which I will not call back. The proposal for a law that we are now considering includes, first of all, a financial programming component through a temporary exceptional effort to catch up on infrastructure and support for economic and social development: EUR 99.5 million per year, on average, over a period of ten years. If its author asks for a catch-up of the appropriations allocated, it is that in Mayotte, the consumption of credits is significantly less than in the other overseas communities. It then provides for a set of actions to be carried out in terms of infrastructure. It is particularly concerned with a number of important issues for the development of the one-hundred-and-first department: the development of the deep water port of Longoni; the extension of the runway of Dzaoudzi-Pamandzi airport; the construction of a new track converging with the current runway; improvements in road transport, with changes in the overall transport and travel plan. It also provides for an increase in the number of staff of the University Training and Research Centre in Mayotte, which is higher than that provided for in the State-region plan contract. He stressed the difficulties associated with water management, despite the water emergency plan, considering that the progress contract signed in July 2018 did not provide sufficient resources for the vital need of water. Social equality is the subject of the third axis of this text. While the law of 28 February 2017 on programming on real equality overseas and other social and economic provisions, known as "EROM", set the objective of equality between overseas and metropolitan France, this French department suffers from a serious delay: the social security code is not applicable in its own right; a 50 % discount is applied to many basic benefits; Many social schemes are not applied. These social inequalities need to be compared with two essential data: Mayotte has the highest poverty rate, with 84 per cent of its population living below the poverty line, and the highest cost of the average basket of consumer products, which is more than 73 per cent higher than the national average. In this regard, the draft law provides for the application of the Social Security Code in Mayotte on 1 January 2020 and the production of a report by the Government on the opening of certain social schemes and the alignment of the social minimum amounts with those prevailing in Hexagon. It also aims at a more environmentally friendly energy supply, as current electricity generation is 95% thermal, while the island, which is very sunny, is expected to produce more photovoltaic electricity. Conservation of the environment is the fifth axis of this bill, since, with its 195-kilometre coral barrier, this territory contains 25% of the world's reef biodiversity. The provisions of the text set out the systems for wastewater treatment, waste management and low-carbon energy generation supported. In addition, the rapporteur wants to see modern sports facilities for Mayotte in 2027 in view of the forthcoming Indian Ocean Games. On the issue of housing, which is thorny in the overseas regions, and even more so in Mayotte, articles 116 and 117 of the EROM Act laid the foundations for land reform, establishing land titles and setting up an emergency land commission, which will bring its expertise to individuals wishing to regularize their situation. Article 114 also provides that the State shall transfer its land to the public property establishment in Mayotte free of charge in order to facilitate the construction of social housing, public services or schools. The fourth part of the bill deals with community endowments. Provisions are being made to establish the basis for the calculation of allocations to communities on the basis of a real population to be updated, as well as to provide Maori communities with a temporary fund to catch up with allocations, which have been largely undervalued since the département. The bill deals with real and urgent issues, but we need to understand how it interacts with other pieces of legislation. If, in substance, dear Mansour Kamardine, you are probably right, we need to know how the appropriations set out in the bill will relate to the provisions of the EROM law, to the convergence contracts signed last year, which are in the process of being implemented, to the contracts of the water emergency plan, which are also being implemented, and to the finance law, which annually adjusts the appropriations. We do not disagree with the many points you have highlighted. We also welcome your work and your willingness to leave this territory behind a long time ago. Mayotte is an island with considerable potential. Its elected representatives can no longer be content with making promises, as Mayotte can no longer be content with making observations. We must be at the rendezvous of the hope that they gave birth. Departmentalization must be at the service of a development model. Mayotte needs unwavering support from the state, as the state needs unwavering support from Mayotte to help it build the solid foundations for successful departmentalization. Let's try to live up to Mayotte's ambition. Let's get out of politics. That's what Mayotte's waiting for. That's what Mayotte demands. That's what Mayotte deserves. The findings on which this text is based are undeniably shared, but the Socialist and related group, which I represent, is concerned about what could be merely a political posture. That is why, Mr rapporteur, he has instructed me to tell you that, given the reasons I have cited and pending the answers he has requested, he will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u8	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u9	We are gathered to study the bill of our Mauritian colleague aimed at catching up with Mayotte's backlog in many areas: infrastructure, social rights, sustainable development and, cross-cuttingly, taxation, economy and endowments. In the preamble, like my colleagues, I congratulate our colleague Mansour Kamardine, because this text is not a small bill. It has been worked on for a long time and contains many articles. Dense and rich, the report helps us to highlight the situation in Mayotte, which calls us all and even moves us. When you read these pages, you wonder if Mayotte really is in France. So we all want to encourage the rapporteur's approach. The text aims to revive development in Mayotte, or at least to encourage its revival, while at the same time ensuring monitoring and rebalancing of social rights and taking into account, which I note with great enthusiasm, the environmental aspect. Whether adopted or not, the integration of this data is a good step to be taken for all of our territories. The bill has all its legitimacy, in the first place, Mr rapporteur, because you are elected from this territory and it is normal, given the expectations of Mahorais, that you should carry their message. In the face of an emergency situation, the rescue never arrives fast enough. I therefore fully understand your approach. We have already mentioned Mayotte when we examined Mrs Ramlati Ali's bill, also Mahorese, which raised the issue of soil law. Perhaps this is the crux of the problem, or at least given the link between Mayotte and the Comoros, which exacerbates the difficulties. We understand it well, we must tackle with courage, in accordance with your history, delicate subjects, which show the need, beyond the particular case of Mayotte, to take decisions adapted to the territories. Although this is a crucial point for the whole of the Republic, differentiation is indispensable everywhere. To the truly exceptional situation of Mayotte, we need no less exceptional answers. That is the principle that the rapporteur intends to follow. Mayotte is really a piece of land. I do not deny all the efforts made by the Government. The action plan for the future of Mayotte and its inhabitants, which is being deployed, is ambitious and endowed with substantial resources. I would also like to thank the Minister for meeting her commitments: she has, as we know, ensured that the best arrangements are made and that they are implemented quickly. For the rest, the substantive question put by Mrs Manin arises for all of us: we must ensure that the bill is consistent and even converging with all the other mechanisms currently in force. That is why, Mr rapporteur, it would be good if you could explain to us how these various measures can intertwine. Our work in this House is indeed to find effective solutions, not to blur messages, to show that we are avoiding cacophony and that everything is in the right direction. This morning, at the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, I asked you how this text was perceived in the territory and shared with others. I know that the policy under way in Mayotte – which was noted in the general discussion – fosters a permanent and effective dialogue with local elected officials. Nevertheless, as I have already told you, I do not forget that your approach is in response to emergencies. That is why, Madam Minister, I wonder whether it is not possible, as part of the current plan, to give priority to the four points of the bill. To remedy the situation, to develop infrastructure, to meet the challenges of modernisation, sustainable development and equality in social rights, the proposed law provides for a ten-year budget. Is it not possible to do it faster, especially in social matters? In this connection, if I agree with everything that has been said so far in the debate, I would like to bring a nuance, which will be the only one. Madam Minister, there is one point that still bothers me, I tell you frankly. Is it announced to the inhabitants of Brittany or Aquitaine that as long as the level of contributions levied in their region is not sufficient, their social rights will be aligned with the contributions collected? The principle of the Republic is to guarantee unity, equalization, solidarity, in the end, without having to say that it is a question of solidarity. Throughout the territory of Hexagon, it seems to me – but I am not a specialist in the matter, being elected from a territory with own taxation – that social rights apply uniformly, except perhaps in Alsace. So when I hear that the Mahorais have to wait for the contributions to reach a level sufficient for their rights to be established, I wonder.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u10	I would say it differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u11	I wanted to stress this because I discovered, during the examination of Bill EROM – and this really marked me – the gap in social rights between Hexagon, on the one hand, and Mayotte and the other overseas departments, on the other. I wouldn't have imagined it, and it's basically...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u12	Unjust!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u13	Yes, unfair. Together, regardless of our territory, whether it is in Hexagon or overseas, whether it is a department or a community, we must unite to address these social inequalities much more quickly. It is true that the question is treated from a financial point of view and from the point of view of difficulties, obstacles – to avoid talking about "disability" – natural or linked to history, of which you have inherited. Because Mayotte has been dependent on decisions that have been taken here: you have been departmentalized, with all the consequences we know. I know that every effort is now being made to try to make the situation more viable for Mayotte. [[Mr Mansour Kamardine, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, applauded]] However, if only because of the seriousness of the current challenges and difficulties, the UDI-I Group has decided to support you, rapporteur. Indeed, morally, we want to express our will for change, and quickly, hoping that the work will be carried out in line with the Government within the framework of the action plan for the future, which encompasses all these issues and is not to be set aside. We want to give you a sign of encouragement and support. That is why we are in favour of this bill, although we know that it deals with only a few priorities. As the action plan for the future of Mayotte is much more ambitious, both devices need to be connected. I hope that you will find ways of reaching an agreement to move forward in the areas that you consider to be a priority for your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u14	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u15	In the first half of 2018, a massive social movement broke out in Mayotte, causing the island to block. This situation placed Mayotte in a state of emergency and highlighted the structural difficulties that make this territory one of the poorest departments in France. In fact, whether it is in the health, education, environment or safety sectors, Mayotte undoubtedly lags behind the other departments of the Republic. And it is true that the migratory pressure, particularly from the Comoros, destabilizes the island's balance and contributes to its many frailties. We therefore share Mansour Kamardine's observation of the situation in Mayotte. As I indicated in committee, I myself was able to see the real difficulties faced by our Maori compatriots when I visited the country with members of the Law Committee last September. In response to this important social movement, the Minister of Overseas Affairs, Annick Girardin, has drawn up an action plan for the future of Mayotte comprising 53 commitments bringing together 125 actions to develop and improve daily life in Mayotte. For the period from May 2018 to May 2019, an initial inventory may be drawn up of the actual measures thus implemented. In terms of security, the number of law enforcement personnel has increased sharply: more than 170 additional police officers and gendarmes have been mobilized, and Mayotte benefits from the daily security police. In the area of crime prevention, the funds allocated from the intervention fund for the prevention of crime have doubled and, among the measures implemented, include securing the surroundings of schools and public transport. With regard to the fight against illegal immigration, the anti-illegal immigration staff has been set up, as well as an inter-service investigation group specialising in the financial aspects of the sectors. In terms of employment, the Regional Directorate of Pôle Emploi has been created and, since the beginning of 2018, the framework scheme for the future Mayotte has been launched. In terms of health, the Government, in addition to setting up a full-year regional health agency, committed €20 million in 2019 to programme emergency work totalling €41.3 million. In terms of education, a full rectorate will exist within two years and 500 staff will be recruited over five years. Of course, the list of these measures is not exhaustive. A qualitative assessment can already be added to this quantitative assessment. Thus, the number of arrests of illegal aliens on land increased by more than 17% in 2018 and by more than 104% in the first quarter of 2019. In addition, in 2018, seven channels of smugglers were dismantled and overall crime fell by 9%. In addition, the number of deportations to the border was 15,000, despite the formal suspension of deportations for eight months. There is an average of 2300 removals per month for the first quarter of 2019, compared to 1000 in 2017. In addition to this first action plan, the Government's commitments to build tomorrow's overseas, as part of the Blue Book's Overseas Trajectory 5.0 strategy. The Government has thus invited policy makers, elected officials, businesses and citizens to design a sustainable future overseas. This trajectory will be presented more broadly, in a moment, by our colleague Annie Chapelier. Finally, the Prime Minister reminded us last Wednesday, the convergence and transformation contracts will be signed with the Overseas Territories by mid-July 2019. These contracts will represent not only the fiscal trajectory of the state and local authorities from 2019 to 2022, but also the concrete signing of the commitments to be made by the various parties. In total, the State should provide the convergence contract to Mayotte with a sum of EUR 1.1 billion. My dear Mansour Kamardine, first of all, I would like to pay tribute to your work, which we know, as well as that of the other Máhorai parliamentarians – MP Ali and Senator Thani Mohamed Soilihi – who are particularly committed to defending the interests of Mayotte and its inhabitants. I repeat, we share your diagnosis of the particularly degraded situation in Mayotte. However, because the first measures implemented in recent months are beginning to produce tangible effects and because the convergence plan which is going to engage the communities and, consequently, the State for the benefit of Mayotte is very ambitious, the Members of the La République Group are going to rely on the government action rather than on your proposal, which is certainly serious, but whose contours and timetable remain unclear and uncertain. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mayotte has always expressed his attachment to the Republic; It is now up to the latter to live up to this fidelity. Minister, it is because we love Mayotte and believe in the future of her people that we trust you to meet these many challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u16	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u17	We appreciate the opportunity to participate, for the third time since the beginning of the legislature, in a debate on Mayotte, and it seems to us that, for the first time perhaps, the debate on the situation and the future of this department can be positive and constructive. Mayotte has been a French territory since its colonization in 1841. In 1974 and 1976, the Mahorese and Mahorese chose to remain in the French Republic. In 2009, following a local referendum, the island obtained the status of region and overseas department and, in March 2011, became the one-hundred-and-first French department. Unfortunately, behind institutional appearances, reality is far from the republican principles of freedom, equality and fraternity, which do not apply uniformly throughout the territory as they should. Let us recall the findings and data that have been cited many times in committee and today. In Mayotte, 84 per cent of the population lives below the poverty line. One in three houses is made of sheet metal and 28% of them lack running water. The unemployment rate is 26 per cent. Life is more expensive than in metropolitan France – food prices, for example, are 19% more expensive. The number of doctors per capita is four times lower than in the rest of France. Infant mortality is three times higher than in metropolitan France. Acute malnutrition affects 7 per cent of children under five years of age. In the field of social law, it was also said that ordinary law was not applied to Mayotte. It should be noted that family allowances are 42 per cent lower than those paid in Hexagon, that the amounts of the activity premium, the RSA, the allowance for adults with disabilities and the minimum old age are 50 per cent lower and that the SMIC is 25 per cent lower. This situation has generated many popular social mobilizations in recent years. The last movement, the general strike called "Operation Dead Island", lasted from January to April 2018. In particular, on this occasion, a catch-up plan of EUR 1.8 billion was presented by many elected representatives of Mayotte, whose aim was to address, both urgently and structurally, a number of the problems identified. The 1.3 billion euros proposed by the Government in the aftermath of the crisis were below this estimate: only 10 to 15 per cent were in fact new measures. That is why the initiative of our colleague Mansour Kamardine, which is complementary to the measures proposed by the Government, seems to us to be extremely welcome. Its proposed law provides for investments in a number of infrastructures, such as an airport runway, a port landing dock, roads, sports equipment and a very high-speed Internet network. It also aims to bring social minimums, family allowances and retirement pensions into line with the common law, which I have explained at the moment is below the national average. Furthermore, the construction of infrastructure for sewerage networks, waste treatment and the deployment of solar energy would make the ecological transition a success. A total of €994 million over 10 years would be added to the Government's five-year plan. This proposal would be financed by the re-establishment of an intraday financial transaction tax, which had been abolished in 2017. We support these proposals, which are in the right direction. However, we have tabled amendments in committee and we will defend some of them at the sitting, because it seems to us that this text suffers from a few blind spots. Our colleague is proposing to develop methanizers, whose environmental consequences are the subject of scientific controversies. We will introduce an amendment to partially delete one article and another for a report to be drawn up on this subject. We also regret that there is no mention of marine renewable energies, which we find all the more regrettable because this department has enormous potential in this area. Moreover, no additional investment is proposed for housing and the hospital, two social emergencies in Mayotte that call for a catch-up. We believe that the Government's responses are insufficient. As far as fishing is concerned, Mayotte is the largest lagoon in the Indian Ocean. It would be a shame not to make further use of this source of economic development, especially since proposals are made by local associations, in particular Republic &amp; Development overseas, which has imagined a €15 million investment plan for fisheries, in particular with a view to renewing the fleet by acquiring vessels from Martinique – which would allow artisanal fishermen to exceed 5000 nautical miles – and to build seven mini-fishing ports. This proposal would address three issues: food self-sufficiency, while 90% of Mayotte's diet is imported; employment, since the current ships will no longer be registered in 2021 and 450 jobs are threatened; French technology and know-how because the use of boats designed by the Martinican manufacturers is an alternative to Chinese offers. By this example, we want to show that it is possible to go further in certain areas, to encourage and support the development of infrastructure, with the aim of succeeding in the ecological transition. The proposals put forward seem far too timid, even if they represent a step forward and complement the current arrangement. Let us therefore hope that, at the end of the debate, these proposals will be adopted. Not all structural problems, the legacy of decades of underinvestment and underdevelopment, will be resolved. The Mayotte question should be addressed by highlighting the extraordinary potential of this territory, which has not been sufficiently developed within the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u18	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u19	We are here to discuss the bill of our colleague Mansour Kamardine, whose examination comes at a time when Mayotte is going through a serious episode of urban violence. On behalf of the GDR Group, I would like to express to him and to all the Mahorais our friendship and solidarity in this difficult moment. I have a particular thought for the inhabitants of Passamainty as well as for the police, mobilized against the gang calling itself "anti-BAC brigade", which sows terror in this district of the capital. Member of Parliament for Guyana, where there is also a climate of harmful violence, I can only sympathize and appeal to the state to the utmost firmness in its response. Its ability to defend the integrity of the entire territory of the Republic is at stake. I would also like to thank, once it is not customary, the colleagues of the Group of the European People's Party and their chairman, for having grasped the urgency of the situation and having placed on the agenda of their parliamentary niche this text which has the merit of bringing to the attention of national representation the reality of the one hundred and first French department. At the moment, I referred to the need for a firm response from the State to the phenomena of violence. However, if it is necessary, it will not settle everything. Indeed, the economic and social development of Mayotte cannot be without a set of solutions adapted to the realities of the territory and concerted with local actors. Of course, we must ask ourselves the question of funding – hence this bill. Of course, we do not start from anything: we must recognize the strong commitment made by President François Hollande, supported by all the ultramarine parliamentarians of his majority, of which I was part, notably with the Mayotte 2025 plan, signed on 13 June 2015 in Mamoudzou. This founding act was to mark the beginning of a new era, with a commitment of the State for ten years and the will to lead the territory towards the path of common law. It was a matter of making Mayotte a fully-fledged department and thus honouring the will of the Mahorese, which had been constantly renewed since 1974. The law on real equality, which we passed in February 2017, provides for convergence and transformation contracts, which must be found in all ultramarine territories. Their implementation is a regrettable delay, but it would appear, Madam Minister, that you have pledged to present them to us in two weeks' time, together with the Prime Minister. Of which act. The convergence plan for Mayotte, in particular, should make it possible to implement the action plan for the future for Mayotte. Apparently, it replaces the 2015 commitment. All right. We will therefore be extremely vigilant to ensure that this convergence plan is in line with previous expectations and commitments, and that, at the end of the day, it is there. We, the ultramarines, are only too accustomed to the little tricks of a pass, like what we were given in Guyana, where the large sums announced seem to have gone away as the pact of the future was transformed into a plan of emergency. As I said in the preamble, Mayotte is a territory so far away and so different from Guyana, and yet so close and so similar in the stakes it faces. Its demography makes it the youngest department of France, just in front of Guyana, and one of the densest after the French departments. Half of its population is under the age of seventeen. The implementation of a youth plan and a plan to catch up and explore infrastructure is therefore essential and urgent. On the other hand, although the per capita gross domestic product in Mayotte is still well above that of its neighbours, a quarter of the population still lives below the poverty line and a third of the working-age population has no employment. Like the situation in Guyana, all this is simply unworthy of the Republic. The economic, social and environmental development of Mayotte therefore requires emergency measures, which are not exclusively the responsibility of the Mahorais: this is indeed the task of all the French. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will support this bill, which merely responds to the aspirations or rather to the right of the Mahorese to fully develop within the framework of the Republic. Finally, while comparison is not right, I would suggest that the Mahorais and their representatives keep an open eye on the origin of the funds that will be mobilised in the framework of the plans, the pacts and perhaps, if this bill succeeds, the exceptional catch-up effort provided for in Article 2. And for good reason! This government made itself the specialist of accounting writing games, undressing Paul to clothe Peter, poaching in funds already darted towards a territory in order to finance new commitments there. Clearly, we will have to remain vigilant that the Mahorese do not themselves finance their plan for the future, like the Guyanans, who are financing a large part of their contingency plan. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Minister, we know that Bercy's arbitrations are rarely favourable to us. You're not responsible. However, we count on your engagement with us to make the voice of the overseas territories heard differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u20	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u21	France of the territories is such a coat of arlequin, beautiful and strong of its colors, its forms, its diversities and its specificities. Each territory contributes to the success and influence of France. That is why the State must be at their side, and even more so in the poor territories, of which Mayotte is part, where 84 per cent of the population lives below the poverty line and where the cost of living is the most expensive in France. It is not because this lagoon-colored island is located 8000 kilometres from the metropolis that it must be abandoned because there are no people who are nothing; There is only "the people, orphans, poor, intelligent and strong, placed very low and aspiring very high", as Victor Hugo wrote. Mayotte, like every territory of the Republic, represents the country in its diversity, in its openness to the world, in its identity. She's a part of her future. However, as the report by our colleague Mansour Kamardine shows, whose excellent work we wish to acknowledge, as well as the commitment to this territory of his colleague Ramlati Ali, Mayotte suffers from many inequalities. Thus, unlike other ultramarine departments, the Social Security Code is not fully applied. In addition, a 50% discount is applied to many basic or minimum benefits – I am thinking of the RSA, the solidarity allowance for the elderly, retirement pensions, the activity premium or the family support allowance. Many schemes and their related rights are not applied either: universal health insurance – CMU –, support for the payment of a supplement but also supplementary pension. The demands related to these issues are echoed by the Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group, who are fighting tirelessly to ensure that our fellow citizens, wherever they live, feel fully that they belong to a community of life and destiny, so that the principle of equality can be positively reasoned in them. Our group is also convinced that tomorrow's growth will take place in the territories, including Mayotte, which the solidarity of tomorrow will invent in the territories, including Mayotte. They must therefore be supported in order to give the full measure of their potential. It is thus necessary to question the way in which these territories can be developed: by linking them economically to the metropolis, we finally try to make them small metropolises, which makes it very difficult for them to integrate into the economic zone to which they belong, to the extent that the products they consume come to a large extent from the metropolis and not from the neighbouring countries. We therefore support this desire to strengthen Mayotte's endogenous economic development and its position as a French and European economic and cultural hub in its regional environment, as provided for in Article 1 of the draft law. We would also like to welcome the clear intention in the text to put this territory on a low carbon path of environmental conservation. Island territories, more than any other, are the first victims of global warming, and the decline in the territories of the major objectives set at the global level is one of the fundamental challenges of the coming decades. To these environmental challenges, which will grow, are added the social crises that regularly strike Mayotte, as was the case in 2017 and 2018. We understand this cruel sense of abandonment that resonates in every Mahorese, in the face of the reality of public authorities that usually content themselves with a cautery on a wooden leg when crises are too noisy or even too violent. This ability to act truly for Mayotte and from Mayotte necessarily requires a strengthening of the free administration of local and regional authorities, because we measure the extent to which the exasperation of the Mahora population is at its peak. Mayotte can no longer be lagging behind the national average in terms of standard of living and development, to be ill-equipped and to find that technologies take a long time to reach it. It is also facing increasing difficulties in coping with the arrival on its territory of a poorer population, particularly from the Comoros, which adds to its difficulties. That is why we fully understand the objectives of this bill. However, for the Libertés et Territoires Group, beyond the principles that it affirms and to which we fully adhere, it does not seem appropriate to us, in its drafting and at present. Indeed, the Government, through its Overseas Minister, Annick Girardin, presented a plan of action for the future of Mayotte a year ago, comprising 53 commitments and 125 actions. This plan of more than EUR 1 billion, which aims to improve the daily lives of the inhabitants and give new impetus to the development of the territory, is a first response to the difficulties of the island and to the legitimate expectations of its inhabitants: to give Mayotte the means of economic growth not only endogenous but also exogenous, in order to enable it to develop all its assets, to be a flagship in the field of sustainable development and to improve the daily lives of its inhabitants. In addition, we find this bill difficult to reconcile, in terms of funding and political coordination, with the convergence contracts being deployed. Regulating this by law does not seem to us to be the way forward, whereas it is up to the Mahorais and their representatives to define these projects, in coordination with the State, for better application on the ground. We must not legislate at the risk of making commitments that can only be met very difficultly. A first review of the current plans shows rather encouraging results. We therefore believe that it is useful to allow them to be fully realized and bear fruit before considering a new law. Finally, to deal with the development of Mayotte through the almost exclusive prism of financing seems to us insufficient, while the challenges facing this territory, as well as the rest of the Republic, require an important overhaul of our institutional architecture and territorial governance. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if the objectives of this bill are perfectly commendable, the Libertés et territoires Group will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u22	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u23	Twenty-five years ago, I discovered Mayotte. But trampling on the Mahorian soil is never going to leave him again. Mayotte is a permanent wonder, under water, on water, on earth. Actually, not really. The postcard, which anthropoization has seriously debarked, has gradually lost some of its superb. On the other side of the picture are waste, ubiquitous, open-air landfills, scavengers filled with rubbish, rivers where women wash directly and become white, the city and villages with precarious, unworthy habitat, these houses called "bangas", made of sheet metal, on sites where collapses are frequent, sanitation absent and waste, over and over again. One third of the inhabitants do not have direct access to drinking water. Fragile environments, rivers, mangroves are heavily polluted, with 75% of wastewater flowing directly into streams and into mangroves and lagoons. Despite all this, we can only love Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u25	Kamardine likes his island, like everyone who knows Mayotte, whether they were born there or lived there. In my personal capacity, I would like to thank him very much for allowing us, once again, to talk about Mayotte. So far from the concerns of the French of metropolis, this little French confetti so unknown shows us, once again, that our overseas departments are an infinite wealth and a chance for France, regardless of the state in which they are located. But I'm asking him. His work is more than commendable, in particular because it deals fairly precisely with the main problems on the island. However, to look more closely at the programming of catch-up and sustainable development that it foresees for Mayotte, one can only underline the great convergences and reiterate them with the fifty-three commitments of the action plan for the future of Mayotte, already taken by the Government. I regret that Mr Kamardine has not produced a sustainable development plan specific to Mayotte, stressing his unique side, whether it is his situation or the solutions proposed, by putting innovation at the service of its specificity. If our overseas countries do fit into a common global environment, they face different challenges, linked to the regional area to which they belong. They are also sadly ahead of global challenges. Like all islands, Mayotte is a fragile ecosystem. Through its isolation, it is the representation and realization of the climatic, environmental and ecological issues we face. First-line presentation, it is at the forefront of our nation, the place where we can, where we have to meet the ecological challenge of the century. We keep repeating this: our first strategic priority is the acceleration of the ecological transition. Yet, even more so than in metropolitan France, this urgency is felt acutely and lucidly in our overseas areas, particularly in Mayotte. So let's face the challenge, but by defending proposals specific to Mayotte's stakes! The Overseas Ministry has already planned and implemented several actions to achieve these objectives, which it summarizes with a path 5.0 – zero carbon, zero waste, zero exclusion, zero agricultural pollutant and zero vulnerability – because the ecological transition is necessarily a social and human transition. We can no longer think of the economic and structural development of a territory by stalemate its sustainable future. We can no longer layer this development on a metropolitan model. One example is the upgrading of the transport, mobility and interconnection infrastructure advocated by Mr Kamardine. What makes sense for the construction of national roads on an island where no point is more than 30 minutes away from a health centre, where the entire territory is mingled with roads, albeit modest, where there are only three very random oil supply points, where the maximum distance from one point to another is 60 kilometres, where the activities are divided between two islands connected by barges – administrative and airport activities for Petite-Terre, economic and port activities for Grande-Terre, not to mention the lack of means of transport of vehicles between the two islands? Measure 35 of the Action Plan already involves increasing the maintenance effort of existing roads. Measure 36, on the other hand, takes note of the bypass and the road service to the Mamoudzou agglomeration. Mayotte, a tiny island of 376 square kilometers, chokes in its traffic jams, suffocates in its circulation and suffers, around Mamoudzou, from a congestion worthy of the Parisian peripheral. Road traffic is completely saturated, not because of the lack of roads...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u26	A little bit, though.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u27	...but transport policies and regulation of road flows. This is why, in the overall transport and travel plan approved by the State and communities – the conurbation community of Dembeni-Mamoudzou and the department – the development of public transport is one of the priorities. Moving towards zero carbon will only be achieved through long-term reflection, with projects to mature collective travel, virtuous transport and clean vehicles. If I dared, I would say that Mayotte is the ideal ground for experimenting with clean mobilities, as we can conceive them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u28	The scooter will save them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u29	Multiplying road infrastructure is, in my view, not the right answer to the island's glaring mobility problems. Let us make Mayotte a model, an example, by fully including it in the overseas trajectory 5.0, by building a dynamic for the world of 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u30	5.0?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u31	That's the name of the device. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Unfortunately, I do not find in this bill the breath that Mayotte needs to deal with this issue, which is not the least, even if it makes Mr Bazin smile. That is why I will not vote in her favour, trusting the solutions proposed by the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u32	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u33	As you know, the National Rally is very attached to the overseas territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u34	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u35	... especially in Mayotte, and I dare to believe that the reciprocal is true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u36	This...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u37	Therefore, I cannot begin my intervention on this bill, which I support, of course, without strongly denouncing not only the words of the Comorian President who, once again, has practically called for Mayotte to be annexed, but also, because it is just as serious, the guilty silence of the French authorities. Such provocation deserved a much sharper reaction from our leaders, minimized the immediate reminder of our ambassador – you used this diplomatic tool for much less than that with Italy. In any case, if I had been in charge, I would have, following such a declaration, immediately suspended all cooperation, including financial cooperation, with that country. I repeat it forcefully: Mayotte is French and Mayotte must remain French! Our Maori compatriots know this: we will remain determined to defend them. The situation in Mayotte is extremely worrying. I was able to see it again a few months ago. Insecurity is exploding: we are even talking, these days, about the creation of a BAB, or Anti-BAC Brigade, in plain language, about the Comorian road cutters who resort to the most extreme violence. Mass unemployment is affecting the Mahorese and the public services are being submerged, etc. Of course, the root cause of this situation is the migratory submersion affecting this French department. I insist on the word "submersion" because when 48% of the population is foreign and largely clandestine, I think it is more than justifiable! The départementisation of Mayotte, which had taken place since the 2009 referendum, should have led to a special effort by France. It is the catch-up of this effort that is proposed to us in this text: it is this effort that we support. As a reminder, I will quote from the President of the Committee on the Laws of our Assembly, following a parliamentary mission to Mayotte: "Undoubtedly Paris has too often contented itself with administering Mayotte, without an overall vision, without changing anything, without bringing anything. Mayotte, the youngest and poorest department in France, is probably the overseas territory that has been most forgotten by the Republic". Sic. That is why I suggest that you, Madam Minister, set up a monitoring and steering committee for departmentalization. This trans-party committee, bringing together local elected officials and national officials, seems to me essential to ensure the future of Mayotte. I recognize that a first effort has been made with the partial abolition of soil law in Mayotte: it is a first step in the fight against immigration, but it is clearly insufficient. The Government must use all the tools in its possession – diplomatic, financial and even military – to stop the colonization of Mayotte by the Comoros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u38	Colonization? Oh! Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u39	This bill is, of course, in the right direction, Mr Kamardine. First of all, it seems to me that it is essential, first of all, to have a long time: in this sense, the idea of a law of programming is inevitable. In fact, there would have to be a great law of programming for all overseas countries and territories. Mayotte and, more generally, overseas must be placed at the heart of the French economy. It was also one of the highlights of my 2017 presidential campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u40	It worked really well...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u41	Pretty good! It is indeed necessary to build a strong ultramarine economy, to give our ultramarine compatriots the hope of being able to live locally from their work, to use these territories as a gateway for our companies to the regional economies that border our ultramarine territories, but also to develop poles of excellence around the economy of the sea. During the campaign for the European elections, we proposed the creation of a European maritime agency, in order to ensure cooperation between the European nations concerned with these maritime issues, among which the preservation of biodiversity plays a major role. At a time when, like the choices expressed for the Éparses Islands, the executive shows its disinterest for this France beyond the seas, or even plans to separate from it, at a time when Mayotte, a piece of France from the Indian Ocean, is threatened by an immigration and insecurity that is already unsustainable, and at a time when the economic and environmental potential of these regions can become an asset for France, I welcome Mansour Kamardine's proposal for a law, which I assure you of my full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u42	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u43	It is up to me to close the general discussion. We all agree about the findings – even though some have expressed themselves with a little more outburst. Like others, I think that if we classified the departments according to the strength of their sense of belonging to France, Mayotte would probably come first. Having been linked to France since 1841, she twice, in 1974 and 1976, demonstrated that she wanted to remain French, and the second time more than 99%. While Mayotte is no doubt French, it must be noted that his level of development remains insufficient. Widely neglected and delivered to itself as a result of its département in 2011, it has accumulated numerous delays at all levels, from social to education, infrastructure, housing or water, not to mention insecurity and immigration. On the other hand, some parts of national legislation are still not applied in Mayotte. This partial and delayed application of the common law is, in part, at the origin of repeated demands and social movements, such as that of 2018, aimed at establishing real equality with the metropolis. For example, Mayotte was paralysed by a social movement, also known as the 2018 general strike or "dead island operation": for almost four months, that year, we were only able to witness impossibly the blockage of the island. Mr rapporteur, yes, Mayotte suffers. Yes, Mayotte must be supported. Yes, Mayotte needs help. Yes, Mayotte requires a large and ambitious development plan. No one can deny it. No one can ignore it, and we do not ignore it. The La République group, like the Government, particularly the Overseas Ministry, is aware of Mayotte's difficulties and the need for action. We also understand the motivations of our colleague Mansour Kamardine, who pushed him to submit this bill to us. However, this structural delay cannot be overcome without a real strategy, such as that put in place by the overseas ministry from the beginning of the crisis, with a real ambition for Mayotte. I am, of course, talking about the plan of action for the future of Mayotte and its inhabitants, the result of a concerted effort with the elected representatives, the collectives and the inter-union. Presented on May 15, 2018 by Annick Girardin, the 53 commitments and 125 actions it contains to develop the territory and improve daily life are already in the deployment phase and are a real step forward. Built in the method-project format, which I know is dear to the minister, this plan responds to the many concerns and demands of the Maori people. If I cannot be exhaustive, however, I would like to present some of the key measures. On the security front, a staff to combat illegal immigration, led by a full-fledged prefect, was established on 14 May 2018. The results in terms of security and the fight against illegal immigration are without appeal, since there were no fewer than 15,000 removals in 2018 and an average of 2300 per month in 2019, compared to 1600 in 2017. In addition, seven channels of smugglers were dismantled and crime fell by 9% in the first quarter of 2019. In the area of infrastructure, significant efforts have been made in the area of water management. For example, in order to continue efforts to modernise the water and sanitation network, a EUR 140 million progress contract was signed with the Mayotte Intermunicipal Water and Sanitation Union. At the same time, major housing efforts have been made. Indeed, 400 social housing units have been set up by the operator Société immobilier de Mayotte, thanks to an additional envelope of 10 million per year since 2018, bringing the State's participation to 30 million euros, which will allow to build 4000 social housing units. Nor are the social, education and health sectors left behind. I am thinking, for example, of the establishment last April of the Mayotte Social Development Fund, with a EUR 10 million seed fund, co-financed by the Ministry of Overseas Affairs and the Departmental Council, in order to build crèches and develop reception facilities for the elderly and persons with disabilities. I am also thinking of the creation of an ARS and a full-exercise rectorate, both of which will be operational as of 1 January 2020. I will stop there, but the list of measures essential to the development of Mayotte is still long, and I can only congratulate myself. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr rapporteur, even if we do not vote in favour of the bill, be assured that the Government, the La République Group on the move, and in particular our Mahorian parliamentary colleagues, are working every day to ensure that all the measures of the Mayotte 2022 plan and the convergence contract that will be signed in the coming weeks are implemented quickly, effectively and sustainably.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u44	The general discussion is closed. Mr Mansour Kamardine, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u45	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers who took the floor because they shared the observation of the inextricable and unbearable situation of suffering in which Mayotte finds himself. Secondly, I would like to provide answers to certain questions without delay. First of all, I was objected to that there is a method problem and that there is a need to lift brakes. I solemnly say to national representation that there are no obstacles to the implementation of my proposals. All those who spoke welcomed the work of the Government; I too greet him, because he has planned to put in place an engineering device to accompany Mayotte. The engineering problem that exists in Mayotte is not unique to this department: it exists in all the French communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u46	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u47	Decentralisation has destructured all the skills, especially in the prefectures and in the state services, so that we are facing difficulties in engineering, including within the state. In Mayotte, a mechanism was put in place and the minister explained that there were already recruitments, so there is no more engineering problem. [[Smile]] Secondly, there is the question of the link between my proposals and the Government's plan. Our colleagues recalled that, first of all, there was Mayotte 2025, a process initiated by the socialist majority, in which our dear minister participated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u48	I took part in it after!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u49	The Mayotte 2025 measures were included in the EROM Act, which provided for the establishment of convergence contracts, as everyone agreed on the delay in the development of the overseas countries and territories. With regard to Mayotte, this contract was signed last December and is in the process of being implemented. Prior to this signing, in response to the social emergency, the Government put in place the well-known €1.3 billion emergency plan. What's in it? Six chapters, including safety, housing, school and health – for lack of time, I will not go into detail. The Government is now proposing the implementation of the convergence contract 2019-2022, which has finally been reported to amount to €1.6 billion. Indeed, it deals with the same issues, as the minister has repeatedly said that the content of the Mayotte contingency plan represents the Government's commitments to the legislature. The convergence contract therefore recycles the same subjects, including school, health or access to the Mamoudzou centre. My proposal, which is that of the Mahorese, is based on a simple observation: for forty-three years, things have been done in Mayotte, but the Government has always decided what was good for the Mahorese. But a collective failure is necessary – because we too have been responsible! The Mahorais asked me to tell you what they thought were their priorities: the long take-off runway, the third harbour landing dock, the university, the environment. However, in any event, these questions do not find answers in the Government's plan, particularly in the convergence contract, that we are taken out of the cap. The truth is elsewhere. We are asked to reject these proposals because actions are under way and there is a timetable that is not being discussed today: institutional grooming to get us out of the scope of Article 73 of the Constitution. I want to tell you right away that the Mahorais will not let themselves be done, because they are very attached to departmentalization; It would be good to keep this in mind. Mrs. Chapelier, I heard your comments on the roads. When you are in Mayotte, Bouéni or Mtsamboro, and you want to drive your child to school, you have to, to do even 10 kilometers, get up at 4 a.m. to hope to arrive at 8 a.m.! If you want us to go to school or work as a donkey, we can buy some to avoid using the car! I believe that we can combine environment – we are very attached to it – and development. [[Smile]] [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Finally, Madam Minister, you said earlier that I had come to alert the national representation, but I am not a whistleblower. I came to tell you about the suffering of the Mahorese and to propose solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, SOC, UDI-I and GDR groups as well as non-attached Members]] I propose sustainable development. You do not give us the possibility to receive the same AHR, the same maintenance, the same family allowances and the same rights. Please allow us at least to have the same development! If we develop our economy and create jobs, we will not seek the RSA that you do not want to allocate to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u50	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u51	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The general discussion was very good, and it would be good not to transform the debate with cartoons. As you all said, we all love French Mayotte here. There is no ambiguity on this subject, on French sovereignty or on constitutional issues. I will provide some answers to your interventions. First of all, with regard to the cost of living, in all the overseas territories, we encounter difficulties related to imports, to the granting of the sea – it is not specific to Mayotte – at the margins. We have responded and hope to have tools. We have given Francis Amand a mission on all these subjects: he started with La Réunion, you know, and continues his work in the Indian Ocean, before going to other overseas territories, because, I repeat, all are more or less confronted with the same problem. It is also necessary to support the local sectors, so that we can produce better and more in Mayotte. You talked about the cost of living in Mayotte. As you have often said, the differential is 73%, according to the Rural Families Association. The latest data are those established by INSEE in 2015. They may not be satisfactory, but they allow us at least to make comparisons, because they cover all the overseas countries and territories, and they will not necessarily please. In Mayotte, prices were 6.9% higher than in mainland France; in Réunion, 7.1%; in Martinique, 12.3%; in French Guiana, 11.6%; in Guadeloupe, 12.5%. I know what we, ultramarines, think of these figures: when we go to the cash register of a supermarket, we do not find these rates – I too, being ultramarine, do my shopping in supermarkets, including in Mayotte, when I go there. These figures are only an average, but when you buy cheese or yogurt for your children, you pay them a lot more than in the metropolis. I didn't say that for us to start a battle of numbers, but to show you that we have to use them carefully.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u52	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u53	I did not give the figures for the Pacific because I do not have them tonight. With regard to the fight against illegal immigration, yes, 50% of Mayotte's population is foreign – you've heard me say it often, and I'm not sure that many politicians said it before me. Yes, half of the foreigners are in an irregular situation, it must be admitted. I don't have any trouble admitting that I never have taboos. It was thanks to me that we started to talk more about soil law and differentiation in Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u54	A long time ago François Baroin spoke of a reform of soil law in Mayotte!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u55	For my part, I speak as a member of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u56	François Baroin was the overseas minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u57	Removing the right to the ground is a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u58	We dared to ask a number of questions about some of the specificities of Mahorais – and only Mahorais, I point out. As you know, we have given ourselves the means to fight illegal immigration more firmly within the framework of the emergency plan. I think I can say, because I have seen it myself, that we are better off, but we still have a lot of work to do at sea. For this reason, on 1 February, the President of the Republic referred to a civil-military plan, following the model of Operation Harpie in Guyana. We are in the process of finalizing this plan, which will allow us to be more operational at sea, thanks to greater means, and to carry out more interceptions and deportations to the border. I would also point out that, since the beginning of the year, 5000 people have been returned to the border in Mayotte – in this department, we are returning more than 20,000 people a year and we have the objective of returning 25,000 people, and I would add that a good half of the deportations to the border are carried out in Mayotte and Guyana. I'm coming to security in Mayotte. Mr Serville spoke about the level of violence, which is not acceptable – he is not on any overseas territory. As you have already seen, you can count on me to fight for additional means to fight this scourge in Mayotte. Unfortunately, this does not prevent extremely serious incidents such as those observed a few days ago, often caused by youth gangs. I would point out, however, that 170 additional police officers and gendarmes have been deployed in the territory: the number of law enforcement officers is now increased to 1070 gendarmes and police officers. We must also welcome the work done by municipal police. All these actions are already bearing fruit. It is always very difficult to welcome positive results, as they are never up to expectations – when violence is committed, when a person is a victim of violence, it inevitably leads to difficulties – but crime figures have decreased by 9%. This is small, of course, but it is still 9% less violence. This proves that when you act firmly, you get results. We must therefore continue. As far as social security is concerned, in view of the comments made earlier by Maina Sage, I really need to repeat what I said. In 2011, there were no social security rights in Mayotte, but there were no contributions either. It was then decided – not by me – to define two curves: the first for the increase in social, employers' and wage contributions, the second for the increase in rights. The idea was not to make them superimposed: the main thing was that they converged towards national rates. I absolutely did not say that we should seek balance in Mayotte – the balance of social security must be considered at national level –; I said the two curves must progress! It was decided that the increase in duties would be spread until 2036. When I came to the responsibilities, I found that this calendar was perfectly scandalous. Let me make a little history, a little historical and legal archaeology, because I would like to be criticized for a number of things, but these reproaches must be addressed to all successive governments. Mayotte's departmentalization pact was wanted by President Nicolas Sarkozy, with your support, rapporteur. At the time of the creation of the department of Mayotte, on April 1, 2011, you set the framework for convergence and the timetable, which was to be spread over twenty to twenty-five years, according to the services, by providing for a graduality for each of the two curves. We can discuss this timetable, which has been changed for certain services but is still in force: the objective is still to achieve convergence by 2036. Of course, François Hollande elaborated Mayotte 2025, but from an administrative and legal point of view, the 2025 deadline is nowhere to be seen: the trajectory still extends until 2036. Here's the drama: we're not going to wait until 2036 for the AAH amount in Mayotte to be at the same level as in the metropolis, whereas it's currently less than half! Of course, improvements have been made. Thus, the amount of the RSA has been increased to 50 per cent of the national level. This is a satisfaction for many, but not for me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u59	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] At the time, you should have resigned instead of accepting that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u60	Mr Jacob, you know my honesty on these matters: I am simply saying how things have happened. Besides, it was you who put this curve in place, with the rapporteur Mansour Kamardine at the time! Gradually, the Maori population must enjoy equal rights with the rest of the French population. That's what I said when I was appointed. Your colleague Ramlati Ali has also fought this fight since his election: she has continued to raise the Government's awareness of the reality of the Mahorian territory and has denounced this paradoxical situation. The priority is to give a calendar to the Mahorese and the Mahorese. Indeed, outside the date of 2036, never corrected in fact, we do not know when the rights in Mayotte will be increased. As you know, I made a commitment to have this calendar given to all Mahorais before the end of the year. Earlier, I will propose that the Social Security Code be applied in Mayotte on 1 January 2020 – we will have an opportunity to discuss it together. I would like to give some further explanations before we begin the discussion of the articles. There is an extremely serious problem that you have not raised: beyond the injustice of applying lower rates for the calculation of the various social benefits in Mayotte, very few Mahorais ask for access to these social rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u61	Martinique, Guadeloupe, French Guiana and La Réunion face similar problems while they have been French departments for seventy-three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u62	On the issue of disability, for example, there were 367 beneficiaries of the AAH in Mayotte in 2018, and 453, so a little more, in 2017. We know very well that a number of people do not come to claim their rights: there is a problem of information that we absolutely have to solve. Similarly, only 463 elderly people perceive ABS: given the Maori context, it is not possible for them to be the only ones to get it! We must therefore really inform the Mahorese and the Mahorese of their rights. The latter dates not from today, but from 2011: there was therefore a problem of information. It is still a shame that we waited today to talk about all these figures! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr rapporteur, I agree with all the observations you have made, but it is now that we have to provide answers. Finally, the objective of convergence must be accompanied by planning that meets the needs of this territory. As you know, since I was Minister for Overseas Affairs, there has not been a single new aid introduced at national level which has not been extended exactly to Mayotte. It's a fight every time a new aid is created, but it's my job. It is abnormal that convergence is not planned for all social measures, but we will give a timetable to the Mahorais before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u63	The rapporteur has the floor for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u64	Minister, you said you wanted to make a little history. In 2011, when the departmentalization was decided, I was not in charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u65	I know you weren't a member of Parliament anymore, but you were still there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u66	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-I groups as well as among non-attached Members]] I was beaten in 2007 so I wasn't there. However, if Nicolas Sarkozy had not taken this decision in 2011, we would probably not be in this Chamber now to discuss social equality and a catch-up plan. Let us be proud of what has been done! It is often said that the younger generations do not have to criticize what the elders have done: they must seek to understand and try to progress. So we are here to move forward, to draw up a plan, not to talk about Nicolas Sarkozy, who is no longer responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u67	If there had been an overseas minister under François Hollande's quinquennium, we wouldn't be there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u68	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u69	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u70	I have rarely seen such a surreal debate. Honestly, I'm shocked. I heard Mrs Le Pen, who unfortunately left our Chamber, delight in her score in Mayotte, where the National Rally won 45% of the vote in the European elections. In Guyana, too, its party gathered 27 per cent of the voters. As for me, I consider that we cannot take advantage of social miseries. Do not seek to place responsibility for the situation on men and women, Comorians, who have lived with the Mahorese for a long time. Today, these people are certainly in an illegal situation, but they live in Mayotte. I do not consider that the Surinamese and the Brazilians should be rejected: on the contrary, we must find an agreement with Brazil and Suriname to form a common society. Similarly, I do not think that diplomatic bridges should be cut off with the Comoros: on the contrary, we must find a solution with that country. Beyond borders, there are men and women, there is a fraternity to build. The slogans of Mrs Le Pen, who considers that the right to land must be abolished at both the national and the mahoran level, and that there is a submergence...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u71	Yes, a submersion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u72	Ah, Mrs. Le Pen, you're back! You must have heard my voice from afar. You denounce a submersion by foreigners – this is the same theory that we find here, in the Mahorais file. Well, no! If there's a responsibility, it's ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u73	I'm not making you say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u74	If we observe today a populist reflex in France, where some of our fellow citizens take refuge under the banner of the National Rally, it is that the State must assume its responsibilities, Madam Minister. Seventy-three years after the départementisation, Guadeloupe, Martinique, French Guiana and La Réunion are waiting for a real, concrete and citizen application of equal rights! Seventy-three years! We even had to pass a law for real equality overseas. Do you know why? You are not the only one concerned, Madam Minister: all successive governments can be held accountable. There is no recognition or respect for the ultramarine territories. There's only one truncated recognition. You say that you love overseas, that you love Mayotte, but without recognition or respect, it is not love but compassion. This is the worst thing because you extort from us the essentials of ourselves, that is, our dignity. When Mr. Kamardine spoke to me about his bill, I pointed out to him that there is no equality without emancipation, that there is no progress if we are to be satisfied with the state's endowments and that it is absolutely necessary to build internal development policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u76	I'm finishing, Madam President. The current situation is linked to the fact that there are no real solutions for Mayotte. Our interlocutors, at the state level, are ministries that have no powers, no powers, like the Overseas Ministry, which waits for authorization to decide anything. Mayotte and Guyana are at risk of being the home of revolutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u77	Mr Letchimy, make sure you respect your speaking time. Mr Philippe Folliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u78	The subject is extremely passionate and, if this bill by our colleague Mansour Kamardine has a merit, it is to put the spotlight on the situation in Mayotte and on what is happening to our Maori compatriots. This situation is not comparable to any other situation. If we were to bear what our Mahorian compatriots were to endure in France in terms of immigration-related difficulties – the equivalent would be between 15 and 18 million illegal immigrants in Hexagon – this would lead to the reactions that each and everyone can imagine, plus the difficulties associated with all the delays that have been accumulated. As you rightly said, Madam Minister, we inherit a situation that has lasted several decades. I remember the debates that we had in this Chamber at the time of the département, the many hopes that it had raised and the unanimous desire to move towards equality, before all this ran into the wall of the budgetary and social realities of this territory. For me this bill is a cry from the heart, a call for help, and it must be heard as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u79	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u80	It is essential to take this message into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u81	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u82	I had the privilege of going to Mayotte in 2011, when MPs were treated fairly equally, and I saw there the tremendous hope generated by the project of départementization, supported by all if my memories are good. And then, a few years later, the next majority put the cantons and departments on the ground; It took a year and a half to rebuild huge cantons, but it doesn't matter. As a result, nothing happened under this mandate, which I believe was Mr Hollande's. [[Laughs]] Bravo, dear Mansour Kamardine: you speak with your heart, you are brave. But even with departmentalization, I have the impression that nothing has changed, because nothing changes in this country anymore. The current majority can prepare their suitcases, as did the chiraconians and sarkozyst cohorts before it; as for the hollandists, they limited the damage because they were able to adapt. In any case, the Members of this majority will move on to the pan like all the others. Why? Because we're no longer dealing with real problems, not yours, not anyone's. Mrs Le Pen, who came to the top of the European elections a month ago, spoke tonight as if she did not speak. She's still not the cause of all the evils! We are a disembodied country. We're nothing, dear friend. I will therefore vote for your text, waiting for better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u83	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u84	Everything was in the fall!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u85	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u86	Your interventions, Madam Minister, like those of the many speakers who spoke in the general debate, were quite optimistic, although all raised the scope of the task for the Mahorais. I would like to welcome the unwavering commitment and remarkable work of the rapporteur Mansour Kamardine in favour of the programming of the catch-up and sustainable development of Mayotte. You spoke of a "departure of all challenges", Madam Minister, saying that in Mayotte, everything is urgent. You also stated that Mayotte cannot be built without trust. As you know, trust is not decreed: it is on the ground, in compliance with the commitments made. While there is progress, such as a full-fledged rectorate, there is still a long way to go for the free administration of communities, the achievement of social equality, the upgrading of transport infrastructure and access to safe drinking water and sanitation. To preserve Mayotte's environment and lagoon, many government initiatives would be welcome. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] During the examination in committee, the majority rejected all the amendments and all the articles; That's unfortunate. I very much fear that, as with purchasing power or internal security, government procrastination is in progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u87	On Amendment No 14, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Kamardine to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u88	It is relatively simple. "The Republic reaffirms the guaranteed benefit to all Mahorais of the economic, social, environmental and political rights available to every French citizen, including the symbols of France, the motto, the anthem and the national flag. » In some international games in which they participate, our young people do not have the right to raise the flag or sing the national anthem, which frustrates them, deep inside themselves, in their pride of being French. The aim of this amendment is to prevent French people from being ignored in what they have most deeply. Of course, this is not included in the convergence contract, nor in the contingency plan for Mayotte, but it will not cost the Republic a cent. It's a cry from the heart; The Mahorese are demanding this recognition. One can imagine that at least this request will be accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u90	[[Smile. – Mr. Christian Jacob applauds]] The committee is against the amendment, but I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u92	Mayotte's membership of France is beyond doubt. Mayotte is quoted, along with all other ultramarine communities, in Article 72-3 of the Constitution, which guarantees the same rights for the Mahorais as for all other citizens – we have just discussed it. With regard to the Indian Ocean Islands Games, there cannot be two French delegations; There is only one, composed of Réunionnais and Mahorais. This has always been the case, and this is how I see it, the two territories marching together behind the tricolor flag. It is again in this way that things will happen shortly, at the next edition of these Games, and the national anthem will resound for this delegation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u93	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u94	Minister, replying to Mr Kamardine that Mayotte is part of the Republic is worthy of La Palice, but what he asks is a little different. According to him, it would be interesting for Mayotte to be able to express herself freely in the framework of these Games, in a way distinct from La Réunion, which seems to me quite legitimate, and above all, if I have understood correctly, that she can be represented by a flag as a regional entity in sports events, which is not at all prohibited by the Constitution. As an autonomist, I ask more, I am for the red, green, black flag: the red of the suffering of our peoples, the black one that recalls the negritude and Africa and the green one of the hope of Caesarean emancipation. However, Mr. Kamardine has the right to ask for a flag; We could very well wear both the tricolor flag and a Mahorian flag.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u95	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u96	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Even though the amendment may seem superfate, I consider this proposal to be a cry from the heart of an overseas elected official who sometimes wonders whether his territory is really part of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, let us know that this is a question that we regularly ask ourselves when we see that no answer is given to the requests we make. Our colleague Letchimy reminded us, it has been seventy-three years that we are supposed to be departments, and yet the laws do not apply in us as in other departments. Binding laws apply directly, but applying the laws that could give us some flexibility and facilitate the development of our territories means going through 10,000 artifices that prohibit any real application. That is why I consider this amendment to be a cry from the heart that must be heard, because many of us in our territories are wondering whether we are French in their own right or French in their own right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u97	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u98	I would like to express my astonishment, Madam Minister. I do not think I would insult you by reminding you that you are already serving the Republic as Secretary of State in 2015 – in charge of cooperation, you had to carry our word in the world – when the games that will take place in Mauritius this year were held in La Réunion. Patrick Kanner, who was then the minister responsible for sports in the same government, said: "Mayotte's flag is the French flag. Because of the Constitution itself, you cannot ask the French in Mayotte, especially those who succeed in an international competition, to wear another flag while they have their own, as they have their anthem. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] I would like to be told that our plan is not consistent, that we have to go to school with donkeys – I say it to tease Mrs Chapelier a bit – but, of course, let us vote for this amendment, which will not cost the Republic a cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u99	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u100	I do not remember what Mr Kanner said, who was actually my colleague at the time, but I do remember how things went, since I was in foreign affairs. But this is not the debate. Things are very simple. Either they are provincial competitions, as is often the case in marine basins; In this case, La Réunion and Mayotte each take part, as Martinique and Guadeloupe would do in Caribbean competitions. Either it is an international competition, as is the case here; Each country is then represented by a single delegation, and this therefore also applies to France. For a long time, perhaps too long, the French delegation was composed only of Réunionnais. From now on, both the Mahorese and the Réunions have their full place. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There is only one national delegation, that of France from the Indian Ocean. That's how things are organized. We respect the constraint that the countries of the Indian Ocean themselves have given themselves in the charter of these Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u101	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u102	The question asked was not that of the composition of the delegation. When a Mahorese takes part in a competition – we have very good athletes, able to bring medals to the nation – for example if he arrives first in a 5000-metre race, does he or she have the right to raise the flag and hear La Marseillaise? That's the real question. However, the charter of the Indian Ocean Islands Games prohibits the Mahorais from adorning the French flag. How can a great republican like you accept such heresy, both political and intellectual?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u103	I put to the vote Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u104	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 17 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u105	We'll never get out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u106	On Article 1, a request for a public vote is submitted to the Republicans Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to read to you Article 1: "The efforts of the Nation in favour of the department of Mayotte aim to upgrade the transport infrastructure for mobility and interconnection, to achieve social equality, to guarantee the free administration of the territorial authorities, to set this territory on a low-carbon path of preservation of the environment, to strengthen its endogenous economic development and its position as a French and European economic and cultural pole in its regional environment, within a horizon of three, six or ten years depending on the operations. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u108	We can't be against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u109	[[Smile]] I do not see how this would be dramatic, even though it almost corresponds to the Prime Minister's general policy speech, as if he had first read my proposal before coming to say it! If you reject this amendment, you also reject the policy statement that you approved a few days ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u110	And you voted in favour?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u111	I will explain to you, dear friends: when we arrived here in June 2017, I voted for confidence in the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u112	But last week's policy statement?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u113	[[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] ... precisely because I trusted upstream. However, I was disappointed because we were served with the project of the "community of the archipelago", which set the powders on fire in Mayotte. So I decided to trust now on a case-by-case basis; As an example, I passed the last law. I trust when it goes in the right direction. That is why, since Article 1e is in the right direction, I propose that you adopt it with me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u114	It's giver-donner!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u115	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u116	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u117	I just want to recall the context in which this bill comes into play. As we have said enough, an emergency plan was announced in 2018 to the tune of €1.3 billion. This is not a financial issue, but a commitment to provide immediate responses to crises related to insecurity and immigration, but also to the construction of schools or housing. It was urgent to provide these answers. You have decided that there is a need to put in place convergence plans in all the overseas territories that will bring us to 2030. This was done for Mayotte. I stress this because the convergence plan envisaged by the department of Mayotte and all its elected representatives cannot be called into question here. It is then supplemented, in accordance with the EROM law – the law on programming relating to real equality overseas and laying down other provisions in social and economic matters – by a convergence and transformation contract, which specifies the actions for the first four years of this plan. It is a question of entering into concrete action, with funding of between 1 billion and 1.6 billion. Some operations are included in the contingency plan, others are not and go much further. We do not find exactly in Mr Kamardine's proposal for a law all the projects contained in the convergence and transformation contract; There is no consistency between the two. Choices are made in this bill while others are made by the department, which is a signatory to this convergence contract. It was not I who decided that the State-region plan contracts would be signed with the regions and that the convergence and transformation contracts would be signed with the overseas departments, municipalities and agglomerations. So it's a job from all over the country. Although I share a lot of battles, observations and objectives with MP Kamardine, we do not necessarily prioritize projects. The state must help the territory to meet all its challenges, but the priorities remain those of the territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u118	Equality is the state! Equality is the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u119	When a contract is signed with a community, in this case the department, this means that there has been negotiation; You know that, Mr Letchimy, because you have signed State-region plan contracts! Each negotiates its projects and finances them. Therefore, it cannot be said here that it is not in Paris to decide and, at the same time, to vote for this bill, which contains measures which are found in the convergence contract, but also others which are not included in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u120	In this case, it is only the article, not the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u121	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u122	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 43 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 18 Against 24
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u123	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No 2, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u124	We propose to grant Mayotte a right of access to water, guaranteed by the free, at least, of the 14.6 cubic metres of drinking water essential for life. We have discussed this amendment in committee. This is a call amendment: in Mayotte, almost four out of ten inhabitants would be affected by the lack of access to drinking water, with some rivers feeding the island with drinking water being extremely polluted. This unacceptable situation persists: in 2017, according to INSEE, 29% of households did not have access to a water point inside their main residence, almost as much as the 30% recorded in 2012. The adoption of this amendment would make it possible to reaffirm the need for access to water and free access to the cubic metres necessary for life, in order to guarantee this right of access to water.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u126	The Commission gives an unfavourable opinion, for a relatively simple reason: the difficulty for Mayotte today is not so much the price of water as access to water. The important thing is the investments that it is necessary to make for everyone to have water when they come before a pillar. The free of charge of the first cubic meters of water is not really at stake for Mayotte today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u128	Water management is not a State competence. However, in Mayotte, the State is at the side of the municipalities: it provides human resources in engineering, which play an important role, and provides funding. Under the next convergence and transformation contract, which is expected to be signed by mid-July, the State will provide funding of EUR 56.43 million for drinking water and EUR 63.14 million for sanitation over four years, totalling EUR 119.5 million. This is an important sum in relation to those we are undertaking in the other overseas departments, but it is necessary to increase the effort to this level in Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u129	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u130	Minister, I would like you to explain to us how you can distinguish between contracts or agreements – for example, the extension of the airport runway, the third wharf in Longoni or investments to address water supply problems; In this regard, efforts are shared with the territorial community of Mayotte and the population – and what is the sovereign responsibility of the State? Following a referendum, the population of Mayotte decided to be in the French Republic. However, the Republic allows itself to apply a 50% discount on basic benefits such as the RSA, the ASPA – solidarity allowance for the elderly – or universal health insurance. How can we explain to the Mahorese that you negotiate, you remove, you amputate what is a matter of law, in disregard of the principle of equality, thus creating a problem of non-recognition? That's what I call truncated recognition, humiliating recognition. Tell us how you get there! You will tell me that it is not you, that this is the result of a 2011 decision. I criticize the decision taken under Nicolas Sarkozy as I criticize all the decisions taken under François Hollande, which lead to a social deposition of the Mahorese people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u131	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u132	It aims to increase the amount allocated to the catch-up programme, taking up the proposal made by the Mahorian elected representatives within the Association of Mayors of Mayotte. We propose to increase the minimum budget to €1.8 billion for the period 2018-2028. We rely in particular on the report submitted in 2016 by the Court of Auditors, which states that the State seems to have committed itself to "a form of implicit and partial "catch-up" compared to the other DOMs, as the overall per capita budgetary effort in Mayotte remains lower than that made in these departments". It seems to us that the ambition must be stronger for this catch-up. We therefore suggest that the amount originally proposed be retained, which we believe is better suited to meet the objectives of the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u134	The committee gives an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, which aims to double the amount provided for in Article 2. You're referring to the Mayotte mayors' proposal. However, the request of the mayors has already received a first response – I am very intellectually rigorous – with the contingency plan, which included the construction of schools and other measures of this nature. I invite you to withdraw your amendment in order to avoid a negative vote by our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u135	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u136	It is important to clarify the content of this article because, because of our workload, some did not have time to read it completely and to master its content. It shows that we are not in the same register as the Government's convergence plan. It aims to stop financing for the construction of the following infrastructures: converging long runway at Pamandzi airport, third landing dock at the deep water port of Longoni, national roads, bypass and road service of the Mamoudzou agglomeration, digital high-speed network, collinary water impoundment of Ourovéni, network of sports equipment and transformation of the university centre into a university of technology. The convergence contract announced to us and detailed in the report, as our colleague Stéphane Mazars has pointed out, foresees, as the minister has pointed out, an amount of €1.6 billion, including €200 million for health infrastructure, €140 million for water and sanitation, €450 million for school facilities, €230 million for housing and city policy, and €45 million for sports infrastructure. It is far from the path we propose. We can therefore very well accept the objectives which we wish to set without harming in any way the scope of the current convergence contract. Minister, the Chair was right to refuse to increase debate, but you said earlier that you were negotiating this contract with other partners. However, it contains the elements of contracting, in the strict sense of the term, with the other partners, in their fields of competence, as well as a part devoted to valuing what the State adds in addition. I would point out for those who do not yet know that in Mayotte decentralization has not reached the same level as elsewhere. Indeed, in Mayotte, national roads, high schools and colleges or Pamandzi airport remain the responsibility of the State. The proposed scope is therefore very different from that of the convergence contract, which, I repeat, includes one part devoted to contracting and another to the extracontractual field, which rightly values the Government's effort to redress the situation in Mayotte. This in no way weakens the negotiations initiated by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u137	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u138	You are right to want to enlighten all parliamentarians. You talk about the skills of the various actors and your bill deals with two strong projects, which represent important investments: the long runway of the airport and the third landing dock. As far as ports are concerned, I would like to point out that they fall within departmental competence and that work is being done with the department. The Commission has set priorities, the first of which is to upgrade existing infrastructures, to an amount set at EUR 24 million by the contract concluded with the department. Like many elected officials and professionals in the Territory, the Department insists that this third wharf is absolutely not indispensable, in any case in the first three, four or five years of the contract. On the other hand, this reflection can be carried out within the framework of the ten-year plan which leads us up to 2030. We therefore do not support opposing positions, but we say that, in the contract currently signed with the department, the priority action concerns the upgrading and safety of the existing docks, because it is the urgency, and that, in a second stage, may possibly involve the installation of a third dock, a project which Mayotte will decide whether or not to carry. With regard to the long runway, the improvement of the Mayotte air service is a priority of the Government, which was included in the contingency plan and for which 13.5 million euros have been committed. I said a few months ago in Mayotte that we would make security improvements on the runway of the airport. It's done. I also said that the state would launch a mission to improve air service. It is also done, and we are waiting for the report. The State undertakes to continue the study of the development of the Mayotte airport. This long runway project, however, runs counter to the new information available to us, because it is located on the Mayotte part of the sea level and, as you know, we have seen the appearance of an underwater volcano that is now 800 metres high and has repercussions in the form of earthquakes that affect Mayotte, with risks of immersion or even tsunami, about which we expect studies and additional information. As I mentioned earlier, scientific research is under way and should allow us to have a mapping of the submerged areas. Unfortunately, it is also this part of Mayotte that sinks 10 centimetres a year. I am convinced that, with regard to this long track project, or rather extended – as we are talking today about a "converging" track – you share with me the idea that we need to work urgently on the additional information we have.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u139	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u140	The minister told us earlier that she would come back on issues of social equality. So I wish she'd told us what the expected trajectory is. Indeed, a commitment was made: we were assured that everything would be implemented within a limited period of time – by 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u141	No, 2036!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u142	Madam Minister, if we are making elections, it is to ask our fellow citizens whether they agree with what has been done and what has been planned. In 2012, the French said that they did not agree with Mr.Nicolas Sarkozy's guidelines. Of which act. In 2017, they said they disagreed with what François Hollande had done. Which act – and that is what justifies us being here today. [[Smile]] We cannot constantly reassert what has been done: the Government exercises its responsibility and recognizes its actions. I therefore simply wish that the commitments made, including by the present majority, be taken into account. Don't bring me back to 1930: I wasn't born!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u143	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u144	I'll tell you exactly what I've already said: today, the trajectory is about 2036, and it's outrageous. I will do everything, by the end of the year, so that the project that will be presented to the Mahorese and the Mahorese with a view to rebalancing their rights as quickly as possible can match your wishes. I said it and I'll be at the end of the year to make these proposals. Indeed, it is abnormal that in Mayotte, the amount of the AAH, the allowance for disabled adults, represents half of the national amount – and the same applies to all other social benefits. But I must also have a debate on contributions with the whole of the country, because we also need to support companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u145	It's Republican! This is not a matter of negotiation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u146	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These are two subjects, but they must be dealt with at the same time with the ministers concerned and we will have put things to a standstill before the end of the year. In all honesty, it seems to me that we have so far made more progress on employers' and employees' social contributions in Mayotte than on rights. I am sure of that, but I do not yet have all the figures. Let me get them, and I hope we will be next to each other with a big smile, by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u147	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u148	For the sake of clarity, I will read to you, ladies and gentlemen, Article 10: "The allocations, grants and equalization funds paid by the State to the communities and the Mayotte intercommunal cooperation unions shall be calculated from 1 January 2020 on the basis of the audit and recommendation report provided for in Article 11. As from 1 January 2021, the allocations, grants and equalization funds paid by the State to the communities and the Mayotte intercommunal cooperation unions shall be calculated on the basis of the census of the previous year carried out in accordance with the procedures specified in Article 11. » Minister, you are telling us that a convergence contract is under discussion. Can you say, by looking at the national representation in the eye, that this convergence contract contains the catch-up measures for local authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u149	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u150	Everyone can judge me on my words and actions; I'm used to keeping my commitments. For the rest, everyone will comment. Community endowments are subject to debate, not just in Mayotte. A mission has just been launched on this subject, including equalization, with Senator Patient. You consider, in view of the latest figures from INSEE, that Mayotte's demographic reality is not sufficiently taken into account, or you are asking for faster missions. A system has been put in place. It will produce results when the time comes, but we have a broader work to do on endowments across the overseas. I hope that we will also be on this point at the end of the year, both for Mayotte and for the other territories. However, I would remind everyone that rebalancing and equalisation will make for all the overseas countries and territories winners and losers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u151	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u152	Articles 12 and 13 contain provisions on the environment. Today, everyone rushes to be greener than the Greens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u153	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u154	In Mayotte, we are facing a real environmental challenge. According to our reading, the Government's proposal for a low-carbon trajectory is based on a figure of about 80 per cent, while the target is 0 per cent for the entire territory. Can you tell us what measures the convergence contract provides for in this area? Will we, at the end of the deadline, be 0 % carbonated energy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u155	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u156	I will also introduce Amendment No 5, which comes a little later, but which is linked to it. Indeed, Mr rapporteur, everyone is today driven by a high ecological conscience. It is in this spirit that Amendment No 4 is intended to delete paragraph 4 of this Article, because we wish to give an alert on the adverse consequences of over-the-counter methanisation, which would be counterproductive in relation to the original objective of preserving the environment set out in your proposal for a law. It seems to us that this model should be avoided in view of the risks of agricultural land grabbing in order to develop crops for methanizers. Amendment No 5, on the other hand, seeks to request that a report be submitted to Parliament on the risks of this process on an industrial scale, which may also concern all the overseas countries and territories. We need to be clear about this kind of arrangement if we really want to implement sustainable, socially and environmentally sustainable development policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u158	The committee delivered an unfavorable opinion on both amendments. Personally, I am against the first but in favour of the second. Amendment No 4 appears to be completely cut off from local realities. As Mayotte is an island, there are no truck ballets that would travel miles and kilometres. It would not be contrary to ecology to do some methanization pending the achievement of the low-carbon targets. Any excess is insignificant. It is a bit demagogic to imagine that, overnight or in two years, the energy will be completely clean. I cannot therefore support this approach. Amendment No 5, on the other hand, is a very beneficial initiative and deserves to be supported, since it is a question of asking the Government to reflect on a training plan for young people, particularly on environmental issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u160	I express an unfavorable opinion on both amendments. Methanization is non-existent in Mayotte today. Amendment No 4 therefore does not address the problem. As for Amendment No 5, it concerns all the territories, whereas the proposal for a law relates only to Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u161	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u162	This amendment by our colleague, Matthieu Orphelin, aims to highlight the Mahorese "marine and terrestrial biodiversity". Beyond that, as was said in the general discussion, it is a matter of valuing Mayotte, while we have talked a lot about his problems and his delays; It is good to highlight its assets as well. On the other hand, Mayotte's environmental wealth is not only terrestrial: the island has one of the largest lagoons in the world, the first of the Indian Ocean, and it deserves special attention. Thirty-four locations around the world are considered "hotspots" – hotspots – biodiversity. There are only two of them in Polynesia, the surface of which is large as in Europe. It is therefore an asset for Mayotte, but also for France as a whole. I can see what fate is reserved for the articles. Beyond what will happen to this amendment, I hope that this idea will be retained, that Mayotte will not be forgotten in our plans for the environment. The specific assets of each territory should be valued.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sage, for these words of sympathy for the department of Mayotte. The committee delivered an unfavorable opinion. As far as I am concerned, I support it, because I am committed to the idea that in Mayotte we have received biodiversity not from our parents or ancestors, but from our children and grandchildren. We have a heavy responsibility to bequeath it as we have received it, if not to increase it. I would add that this amendment corresponds to the very thinking of Mr. Hulot, who sat here on the bench of the Government. If he had been there today, you would all have acclaimed him, as Minister of State of the majority; I don't suppose you'd have contradicted it. I therefore invite you to vote for this amendment, thinking about it and encouraging it to return to your ranks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u166	You know my involvement in biodiversity issues, knowing that 85% of French biodiversity is in the Overseas Territories. I fought hard for the dedicated envelope to be allocated to them at the same height. The account is not quite there, but we can continue to fight. Mayotte has indeed one of the most beautiful lagoons in the world. I had the pleasure of sailing there, and I confirm that it was a wonderful moment for me. Protection measures, as well as education for young people, are provided for in the development contract which the department will sign with the State. And 3.4 million euros are being spent on biodiversity, which is certainly not enough given the mahoranian wealth in this area, but it is already a step forward because little has been done. Again, I hope that we go much faster and much further. I try to do this, with all of you, at the rate that is possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u167	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u168	The statement you have just made, Minister, is very important. I hope that you will take the step and thus succeed in imposing on the State, the Republic, a genuine policy of recognition, neither truncated nor erroneous. Your words really need to be translated into action. You didn't quite answer my questions just now, but I'm going to ask another one from one example. You apply a 50% discount on basic social benefits. True or false? Why not apply one, in all overseas, on the ecosystem services provided by nature? There's no encryption! Mr Folliot talks a lot about this during his speeches, Mrs Sage continues to do so too, as we all say: 80% of French biodiversity is in the overseas countries and territories; 97% of the national sea surface and 80% of the European sea surface are in the overseas regions. When did you assess ecosystem values, ecological services rendered? How much is it worth? How much does it bring you? Their value is very real! Since you apply haircuts to Mahorais as part of departmentalization, do the same with the values – which you haven't estimated to date – brought by the lagoons! Try to answer my questions! When, then, will you open up a project to identify and evaluate the ecosystem values brought by the overseas region, so that we can talk about equals?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u169	Amendment No 5 was defended by Mrs Obono. The Commission and the Government gave their views.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u170	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u171	We hope that the Government will provide Parliament with a report on the needs and prospects of the ecological transition in training and employment in the various economic sectors of the country. Again, as we said during the discussion, this is a major issue, not only for Mayotte, but for our country as a whole. There is an urgent need to invest in education and training. We therefore believe that it is necessary to have the best possible analysis of the needs and potentials in this field. Hence this request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u173	The committee delivered an unfavorable opinion on the amendment. Personally, I am in favour of this, because I think it is a good initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u174	No answer to my question, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u175	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u176	I don't want you to think I don't want to answer you, Mr. Letchimy. Everyone would like us to move forward, but I will take the time to respond to you all the more as we agree on the substance. Discounts are actually applied on social benefits and social minima – which is not exactly the same. Is it normal or not? The answer is no... except that a trajectory is required to reach a 100% payment, without discount. You are asking me, in a somewhat aggressive way, when a reflection will be conducted on our biodiversity wealth, our maritime areas and our forests, and how to value them. I myself asked the question: when will we recognize that the oceans – France has the second maritime domain in the world – and that forests – in Mayotte but also in Hexagon – are real carbon sinks, and that they therefore have a French, European value?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u177	An ecological value!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u178	Of course! The Overseas Territories must indeed benefit from a return to this invaluable wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u179	All right! When?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u180	We agree. This reflection is already taking place within the Government. I apologize, Mrs Obono, I was going to forget to reply to you: I express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u181	The road promises to be long!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u182	Having been a member of this assembly for many years, Mr Letchimy, you have shown some impatience. We must maintain our momentum and collective pressure to achieve this. I shall return to the amendment. Training needs in the overseas territories, particularly in Mayotte, must be mapped, in particular as regards green and blue jobs. I can't believe it. This is the responsibility of the department, and we are working with the department. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u183	I have before me two amendments, Nos 15 and 12, which can be presented together. Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u184	They aim to encourage the Government to reflect on the economic role of the port of Longoni. This is a major issue. Mayotte – I say this to those who have not yet visited – is located at the northern entrance of the Mozambique Canal, which separates Madagascar from the African continent. In the coming months, Africa will develop considerable economic activities, including gas exploitation. We believe that we can claim to participate in this dynamic. Thanks to its port, Mayotte can serve as a rear base for our companies, but also for foreign companies that work in Africa. We could benefit from considerable economic benefits, including employment. The Mahorese who negotiate with the Government are aware of the stakes and are fighting for the port of Longoni to become a state port. We therefore hope that the Government will submit to Parliament a report setting out proposals for the development of the port, both in terms of its statutory status and the economic role it could play. I am not the first to make this request. In an order of 16 October 2017, the Court of Auditors drew attention to "the interest of giving the port of Longoni a status allowing the State to participate in its governance. That of the large seaport of Guyana, Guadeloupe, Martinique and La Réunion could be a model, after analysis of the legal and financial consequences. I take this proposal back to my account and wish to share it with you. We cannot remain deaf at the invitation of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u186	The port of Longoni is under departmental jurisdiction. So it is with the department and all elected officials that we need to think about governance issues, which is one of our priorities. The State is there to accompany, with the department, the delegate in charge of studies. The legal status and governance of a large seaport differs from that of a state port – to which some wish to move. It is a debate that Mayotte must have, in the territory, with all his elected representatives. The State will accompany this reflection. I believe Mayotte can actually play a role in this part of the world. You say that it can be a "back base"; For my part, I often speak of a "fuelling base". It is important to position all the overseas territories through their airports or ports. We share your views on these issues, but we need to work with the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u187	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u188	I echo what the minister said. We note the State's commitment to a thorough reflection on the Mozambique Canal. When we went to Mayotte, with the Law Committee, in September 2018, our attention was drawn to the need to develop a strategy for this area, particularly in view of the development of East Africa. I therefore agree with the rapporteur's comments on this subject, welcoming the fact that the State is contributing to the reflection. The project promoters we met at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry told us of their willingness to pursue dynamic economic policies in this territory, while pointing to infrastructure problems. Before the last vote on this text, I would like to tell you, Mr rapporteur, that Mayotte has been at the heart of our debates this evening, but that the will to pursue a dynamic policy in favour of our overseas countries, especially this small island, will remain valid. On the occasion of our trip, we met warm people, who believe in their destiny, in the future, and who believe that, if we have ambition for this territory, all the challenges that you have mentioned, Minister, can be met. It is a difficult, arduous task that requires resources, but I believe that the state is on the table. I would remind you that EUR 1.1 billion will be spent on projects for the development of the island, which is the irony of this debate, higher than that contained in Mr Kamardine's bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u189	Mr Philippe Folliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u190	I am not going to launch a debate on the Indian Ocean's scattered islands at this late hour of the night, even though they have an intimate connection with Mayotte. Indeed, if you pass the phrase, Mayotte is, in some respects, the "back base" of the scattered islands. As Stéphane Mazars has just pointed out, a number of issues are emerging in the Mozambique Canal, which should become, with its enormous gas resources, the "North Sea of the 21st Century". In the middle of the canal is the French island of Juan de Nova, which has proven gas fields. A question arises, which we are debating in the Advisory Council of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands: that of the continued issuance of gas exploration permits under Juan de Nova. This very morning, Madam Minister, you provided us with some reassuring information on this subject, in the context of a hearing by the delegation to the overseas countries and territories. Moreover, the President of the Republic has given us assurances regarding the maintenance of French sovereignty over these islands, knowing that the vision of certain Malagasy authorities, which speculate on a surrender of sovereignty on our part, is in complete contradiction with the objectives we are referring to. Stéphane Mazars, for his part, referred to regional cooperation. The adaptation of the port of Longoni in order to meet the needs of logistics and refuelling is a major issue in the prospect of a possible exploitation of the natural resources of the area, by France or other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u191	As all the articles and amendments to the additional article have been rejected, the bill is rejected. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u192	At the end of our discussions, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, whatever the meaning of your vote. I want to tell you the pleasure I've had in sharing with you the ambition we have for Mayotte. With the vision of General de Gaulle, we defend France in great measure. France cannot be France without its overseas departments and territories. France is not beautiful, is not great, only when it addresses the world and, for that, it needs its satellites. You have commented on each other; we have made a shared observation; I want to thank you for that. Some of you wanted to come with me further. Madam Minister, thank you for the quality of our discussions. However, we have a real disagreement as to what the development of Mayotte should be. You see the need to continue building schools or rental housing, which is a good thing. For my part, I believe that, in order to ensure the sustainable development of this community and enable it to go further, we need to build a foundation, which requires infrastructure. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] Thank you all, on all benches, for this shared observation, even if we are, in Mayotte, a little disappointed, because we feel that we have once again been pushed out of the walls of the Republic. But we will continue, as we know how, to cling to each other, until we arrive in good port.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u193	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Josiane Corneloup and others to develop the family reception of elderly and disabled people (No 1191, 2024).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u194	Mrs Josiane Corneloup, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u195	It is an honour for me to be rapporteur, before this House, on this proposal for a law on foster care. It is of particular interest to me, on the one hand, because I am on the initiative, on the other, because its examination will make it possible to raise awareness of this too little known mode of reception. It is also an opportunity for us to discuss fundamental issues: the ageing of the population, the prevention of loss of autonomy and, above all, the conditions of well-being and well-being in dignity. The ageing of our country's population is a well-known reality. To remind you of a few figures, the number of people over 60, now 15 million, will rise to 24 million by 2060. At the same time, over 85 years of age will rise from 1.4 million to 5 million. In addition, there are currently 1.3 million elderly people who are dependent. In view of this, we cannot say today that all the conditions are in place to ensure the welfare of our elderly citizens or the loss of autonomy. The current model is not satisfactory; All signals are red, as has been demonstrated by many parliamentary and government work. It is therefore urgent to move out of this binary model that offers either the all-domicile or the all-EHPAD – accommodation facility for dependent elderly people – without viable alternative offer. Our ambition must be to propose a reception solution corresponding to each age of life, to any level of dependence, to define a true path of the person received, with respect for his dignity. In this regard, I found it very enlightening to hear from the National Ethics Advisory Committee, which delivered an opinion in 2018 on the ethical issues of aging. The Committee asked, on the one hand, about the adverse effects of the concentration of older persons with very different levels of dependency in specialized establishments, on the other hand, about the conditions for better integration into society of older persons who are losing their autonomy, who would be able to guarantee their well-being, but also their well-being together. The Committee concluded that it was imperative to ensure that the challenge of loss of autonomy was treated not only as a health issue, but also, and above all, as a social and ethical issue. We must think about well-being until the end of life, with respect for dignity and by preserving the social bond. In this sense, family care must be encouraged, as it offers a flexible solution for caring for the elderly or disabled who lose their autonomy. It favours a close relationship between the host and the host, and is an alternative humane solution between the all-domicile and the all-establishment. I am convinced that the cohesion of our society depends on the emergence of new forms of solidarity, of which family reception is a part. Family reception is a form of temporary or permanent reception and accompaniment for elderly persons or persons with disabilities, which has now been introduced 30 years ago by the Act of 10 July 1989 on the reception by private individuals, at their homes, for consideration, of elderly persons or adults with disabilities. Persons are accommodated at the home of an individual, couple or family in exchange for remuneration. The family reception thus offers a personalized, warm accompaniment, while giving the person received the opportunity to participate in the family life and to develop intergenerational links. Family reception thus responds to three fundamental issues of loss of autonomy: respect for the dignity of the person, the preservation of his autonomy and support in accordance with his will. However, it struggles to develop and structure itself as a viable alternative to systematic care in specialized institutions when home care is no longer possible. While this system has existed legally since 1989, only 15,000 people live in foster care, for about 10,000 welcoming families, while 800,000 people are housed in institutions. There are several obstacles to the development of family reception: the lack of awareness of the system by the elderly or the disabled, the unequal desire of the departments to develop it, the heavy administrative burden on the host and the host, and the low remuneration of the host, moreover very unequal from one department to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u196	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u197	One of the major obstacles is, of course, the precariousness of the status of foster family within the framework of the contract of agreement. The law now provides for the coexistence of two statutes allowing for the practice of family foster care. The historical status resulting from the 1989 Act takes the form of a contract of agreement between the host and the host. It covers almost 98% of the approximately 10,000 family-friendly households. Under the OTC contract, family friendly guests do not enjoy the status of an employee, nor therefore all the protection associated with them. When we auditioned them, the welcoming family told us that they felt like second-class workers. There are two major problems with the OTC contract. First of all, the right to unemployment insurance does not cover family friendly persons. This means that if the recipient dies or is hospitalized for a long period of time, the recipient loses any remuneration overnight if he or she does not immediately find another person to receive. He then does not benefit from the right to unemployment or from personalized support. The second problem is the obligation on the foster family to ensure continuity of reception. Many family caregivers are unable to be replaced to take their leave, even though they are entitled to 30 days' leave per year. I met family friendly women who had not taken weekly rest or leave for six years. It is clear that this obligation exposes them to a major risk of professional wear and tear. The Act of 5 March 2007 establishing the right to effective housing and introducing various measures to promote social cohesion, known as the DALO Act, introduced the second statute, that of an employee, for housekeepers, who may be employed by legal persons under public or private law authorized by the Department. They can thus benefit from all the social rights attached to the wage earner. However, paid family care remains extremely marginal and confidential, as it is difficult to develop, despite the fact that this possibility has existed since 2007. It is now considered to concern only 2% of the welcoming family. This figure may be surprising given the level of protection afforded by employee status. The bodies that I have heard have noted two obstacles to the development of paid family reception: on the one hand, the reluctance of the departments, which exercise social competence, to allow a legal person to use wage-earning; On the other hand, the low interest of social and medico-social institutions in developing this form of reception. In this respect, we can question one of the recommendations of the Libault report, which would be to restrict wage-earning to social and medical-social institutions only. I am convinced that the future of family care is based on the consolidation of family care status through the systematization of wage-earners, which is already provided for in the Code of Social Action and Families. There are many advantages for welcoming families: the holding of a genuine employment contract giving access to all the social protection associated with it, in particular the right to unemployment benefit; the right to effective leave, since the arrangements for the replacement of the host are the responsibility of the employer, as well as the administrative burden. On the other hand, while the OTC contract involves a binary relationship in which the hostli pays the host, the wage earner is based on a triangular model, linking the legal person, welcoming him and welcoming him. This tends to demonstrate the relationship between the host and the host, which allows the host to refocus on his core business, i.e. reception and accompaniment. Also, the bill aims to systematize the wage of welcoming family members throughout the country. The approval would always be issued by the chairman of the departmental council. The obligation to wage-earners raised some concerns during the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. Some of you have wondered about the future of the 10,000 family friendly people currently employed under an OTC contract. I want to reassure them: these welcoming family members will be able to remain within this same framework, since both statutes will continue to be included in the code of social action and families. Some of you have proposed to study an over-the-counter contract, which is eligible for unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u198	I would ask you to conclude, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u199	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] At a time when care for the elderly and disabled in institutions reaches its limits from the point of view of reception capacity, well-contracting and cost, family care offers a humane alternative solution to support and accommodation, which is insufficiently developed and too unknown. It seems to me that the systematization of wage earners is a real way of developing family reception.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u200	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u201	The debate was lively in committee. It must be noted that this bill is not unanimous, even if it has the merit of opening the debate. The work carried out by Dominique Libault has shown that the French want to preserve the freedom of choice as to their place of reception, with a very strong preference for keeping at home, but also a clear awareness of the risks of isolation and the burden it entails for caregivers. The development of family care can be a solution. Approximately 6000 elderly people are welcomed in this context. The Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing has improved the quality and security of receptions, as well as the consideration of the needs and expectations of those welcomed. We share with you the objective of developing family reception, but not the solutions that you advocate. We believe that the debate is not ripe and that several avenues need to be explored in order to strengthen the links between the welcoming and other professional actors present in the territory. I will present the Government's position on each of the provisions of section 1, which is the framework section of your bill. The first measure is to make it compulsory for a legal person to pay the wages of housekeepers. Today, the use of this status is possible, but it is subject to many constraints. The corporate employer must obtain the prior agreement of the departmental council. The regulations are complex, consisting of a set of provisions of the Social Action and Family Code, the Labour Code and even the status of non-territorial civil servants. The organisational arrangements are specific: in accordance with the European Directive on working time, the law prohibits welcoming family employees from working more than 258 days a year. This rule obliges hospitable people to accommodate more people in order to benefit from a correct income and makes replacement an almost insoluble problem for employers, unless they arrange accommodation in dedicated housing, including spaces reserved for the host, for the people welcomed, but also for replacements. There are also additional costs associated with the employment of housekeepers in relation to the voluntary arrangement: the employer has to pay management costs, the cost of replacing the housekeepers, the cost of the allowances due to the host person in the event of the departure of the host person, the additional costs associated with the compulsory unemployment insurance of the housekeepers and the compensation payable in the event of the breach of their contract. As you will agree, all of these costs result in a higher cost of reception for the persons received and a lower remuneration for the family friendly. In view of these constraints, the wage of the welcoming family is now almost non-existent: more than 98 per cent of the welcoming family members work in a direct, so-called over-the-counter, relationship with the host person. On the other hand, the few experiences of paid family care that have been implemented to date have not been conclusive. In this context, if the wage of welcoming family members was made compulsory, almost all the welcoming family members would be in danger of disappearing. You also propose to upgrade the representative daily maintenance allowance by increasing the minimum and maximum amounts of this allowance, currently set at two and five times the minimum guaranteed, respectively, to four and seven times the minimum guaranteed. While this measure may seem legitimate on the merits, since it would make it possible to take better account of the costs of reception – I am thinking first of food, hygiene expenditure and energy expenditure – it calls for two comments from the Government. First of all, the legal vector does not seem appropriate, since the procedure for fixing the minimum and maximum amounts of this compensation is not a matter for the law, but rather for the regulation. These terms should therefore be amended by a decree, not by a law. Above all, it would lead to a significant increase in the expenses of the persons received: for a permanent reception, i.e. almost all receptions, the proposed reclamation would result in an increase of 217 euros per month in the minimum and maximum amounts of the allowance, to the exclusive expense of the persons received, since the maintenance allowance is not included in the scope of the expenses covered by the personalized autonomy allowance, the disability compensation benefit or social assistance. It is to be feared that many welcomed persons will not be able to bear this extra expense and will turn away from family reception. Finally, it may be feared that this measure would run counter to the very purpose of the text. You then propose – this is the third provision of Article 1 – to prohibit departments from issuing approvals for the reception of fewer persons than the applicant's request for approval. This is intended to put an end to the practice of certain departments which systematically limit new approvals to the reception of a single person, regardless of the number of persons the applicant wishes to receive. However, the reasons for this type of approval decision have been changed, since departments are now obliged to justify "any approval decision which does not correspond to the request, in particular in terms of the number, categories of persons who may be welcomed or the timing of the reception". It is not desirable to go further by prohibiting the granting of approvals for the reception of fewer persons than that requested by the applicant for approval, since the departments would then be obliged to refuse approval if the number of persons appeared to be inadequate in view of the housing conditions proposed or the candidate's abilities. Departments should be allowed to assess, on the basis of the approval criteria, whether the applicant's application is appropriate, and to set limits on approval where appropriate. Moreover, the obligation to state reasons for any decision which does not correspond to the request makes it possible to limit abusive practices in this field. Finally, you propose to extend to family friendly guests the right to respite introduced for family caregivers. However, the situation of friendly family members cannot be fully assimilated to that of family caregivers. Family friendly women are paid professionals with the right to leave. They are financed through the leave allowance paid in addition to their remuneration. During their periods of absence, the welcoming family arranges their replacement, without any extra cost for the host person, who then pays him/her in lieu of the host. On the basis of these observations, it appears that the questions asked are justified and merit specific reflection, so that we can collectively provide answers to the sectors concerned, as well as to the first beneficiaries, the welcoming and welcomed ones. Family reception needs to be strengthened from the point of view of the welcoming family, by improving their status, making their right to leave more effective and limiting territorial disparities in terms of accreditation and funding, through social assistance – including extralegal aid – while ensuring quality reception at a controlled cost for those receiving it. The balance between the various aspects of the issue is subtle. There is a priori no miracle solution. The Government does not support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u202	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u203	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, the Commission urges us to go into the matter further. As you know, Agnès Buzyn will present at the end of the year a bill on old age and autonomy. The work to come will enrich the reflection on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u204	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u205	Since we will not have time to complete the general discussion before the sitting is adjourned, I would like to respond to the Secretary of State on several points. Madam Secretary of State, you say that compulsory wage-earning would pose a danger to the welcoming family. However, if we maintain the current situation, in which two types of contracts coexist, i.e. willing and wage earners, the latter will not progress. So we need to systematize it. Introduced in 2007, paid family care covers only 2 per cent of foster families. We have questioned the causes of this situation, even though the wage earner offers additional guarantees, particularly with regard to unemployment benefit, which is an essential aspect of the issue. We have realized that the departments, which have competence in matters of social action, are struggling to allow legal persons to become employers in this field; This is a first brake. The second obstacle lies in the fact that very few legal persons, especially among social and medical-social institutions, wish to develop family reception. Maybe we have to ask ourselves...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u206	I did not understand, Madam rapporteur, that you wished to speak on the substance. It is customary, however, for the rapporteur to take the floor only after the general discussion. I invite you to conclude your remarks quickly so that we can hear the first speaker in the general discussion before the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u207	In this case, I will refer to the representative maintenance allowance. You state, Madam Secretary of State, that its increase would result in a higher dependent stay for the welcomed person. As you know, its amount is set by the department at a level between two and five times the minimum guaranteed. This results in a form of major inequity, because the same person will not pay the same remainder depending on the department in which he or she is received. In my department of Saône-et-Loire, we have chosen to pay the host with an allowance representative of the maintenance costs fixed at 3.5 times the guaranteed minimum. If we split this amount to four times the guaranteed minimum – the bill aims to raise the minimum and the maximum of the allowance to four and seven times the guaranteed minimum respectively – this would result in an increase of 45 euros per month. We would therefore be well below the cost of EHPAD care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u208	In the general discussion, the floor was for Ms. Claire Guion-Firmin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u209	The bill before us is intended to expand family care for the elderly and disabled. This text is therefore part of the current situation, while responding to a real urgency: to rethink, without further delay, the modes of accompaniment of our seniors and the most fragile, by offering a solid and just alternative solution to all-domicile and all-EHPAD. Less expensive, more respectful of the dignity of the person and the preservation of his autonomy, the family friendly arrangements have existed for thirty years. However, it struggles to be known and recognized: only 15,000 people live in a family home, for about 10,000 welcoming families. A number of recent reforms have sought to promote the development of foster care. The latest law, the Law of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing, introduced several advances, including an obligation to strengthen the training of welcoming women, a national accreditation framework, a relaxation of the limitation of the reception capacity and an expansion of the pay opportunities of welcoming family members. The weaknesses and pitfalls of this system are multiple, from the fragility of the status of family friendly persons to the limitation of the number of persons received, to low remuneration and the lack of right to respite. The purpose of this bill is therefore to remove several obstacles to the necessary development of this form of accompanying legislation. As the main obstacle is the precarious status of family reception, the text provides for the systematization of wage earners, making the employment of foster families compulsory by a third-party structure, while maintaining the pre-existing written reception contract. The use of employee status has been possible since the entry into force of the DALO Act in 2007. However, today it affects only 2% of the welcoming population. Thus, we invent nothing; we generalize, to ensure that all welcoming people have access to social rights and social protection. Finally, welcoming family members do not benefit from the right to respite created by the law of 28 December 2015 for family caregivers of persons receiving the personalized autonomy allowance. This text aims to extend it to them, which would represent a significant step forward, knowing that many of them have not been able to take any leave for years! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We share the same diagnosis. While there are blind spots in the bill, we all recognize that it opens up a crucial debate that needs to be deepened. Therefore, let's get out of the dogmas and let the text live! The Republican Group supports the bill with force and conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u210	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the last sitting of the day shall end at one o'clock in the morning, I shall adjourn the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-20-O1285.u211	Next meeting, Monday, 24 June, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the draft law on the competences of the European Community of Alsace. The meeting is adjourned.
