ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the European Securities and Markets Authority concerning the seat of the Authority and its privileges and immunities on French territory (No. 1390, 1787).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the text we are studying today must be an opportunity to go beyond the mere horizon of the provisions relating to the establishment in Paris of the European Securities and Markets Authority. This agreement, the first of its kind, prefigures those who will follow. We all have in mind the upcoming installation in Paris, as a result of the Brexit, of the European Banking Authority, whose report by the Senate suggests that it could eventually merge with the European Securities and Markets Authority. However, the stakes go far beyond the mere question of the privileges and immunities accorded to the staff of the European Securities and Markets Authority. Our Assembly, too rarely consulted on the functioning of the European agencies, must take the opportunity – given, I should say – to question the relevance of the European system of financial supervision. Indeed, what was supposed to be the driving force behind European financial regulation after the 2008 crisis now seems to be well-deserved in the face of the increasingly voracious appetite of financial players. However, the warning signs of a new crisis are multiplying, and the decision taken by the Basel Committee in January to reduce the level of constraint on certain banking rules shows us that the lessons of the subprime crisis are far from being understood. Worse: ten days before the European elections, the French bank lobby has sent the Commission its proposals for a revision of the rules to their advantage, and they claim, in order to respond to American competition backed by more permissive legislation. It is to forget a little quickly that the "supervisory" rules do not bear their name by chance. But everything pushes us to change radically. The forthcoming liberalisation of financial markets through the Capital Markets Union, the development of so-called shadow banking, which is beyond regulation and whose assets represent almost half of the world's banking system, the rise in high-frequency trading, which now accounts for more than 60% of the Euronext market, are all strong signals that should alert us and influence public decision-making. I must point out that the global movement towards speculation, which takes place at the expense of the real economy, is irrigated by some of the decisions taken in this House – I am thinking of the reform of the solidarity tax on wealth, the creation of the flat tax or the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law. In a word, ladies and gentlemen, the fruits are soon ripe and they are about to fall on us! In these circumstances, the steps taken by the European Union to protect us from a financialisation that plays with human lives are simply ridiculous. The supervisory authorities adopted by the Union play a limited role, to say the least, when it is not totally counterproductive. Let us take one example: that of the European Banking Authority, whose Government is gargaging itself on the forthcoming arrival in Paris and which we are told might have to merge with the European Securities and Markets Authority. Its credibility has been tainted since its creation by its blatant lack of human and financial resources and has suffered greatly from the lack of lucidity – it is an euphemism – of its first analyses. Probably remember: the European Banking Authority had tested the soundness of the European banking fabric in the event of an economic shock with its famous stress tests, and it had found the result satisfactory. What a sad joke! The sovereign debt crisis led to a shambles in its conclusions, and led Dexia Bank, which had nevertheless passed the test hand-in-hand, to the brink of bankruptcy. The European Banking Authority is also the institution that abandoned the money laundering investigation that targeted Danske Bank, justifying this resignation by the opacity and conditionality of the European directives – proof, by the way, that the legislative arsenal should be particularly strong. Finally, it was the same European Banking Authority that welcomed Mr Campa, former lobbyist of the Spanish bank Santander, to his presidency on 3 May, whose task had so far been to promote banking deregulation. The European Union is not to a close contradiction, you will tell me. Can we imagine an elder of Goldman Sachs at the head of the European Central Bank or the former Prime Minister of a tax haven as President of the Commission? ... What are you saying? Is that already the case with Mr. Draghi and Mr. Juncker? The European Union is definitely not at a close contradiction! The European system of financial supervision is therefore very weak, and the European Securities and Markets Authority does not escape this rule. Its mandate, which is not broad enough to prevent the drifts of the financial sector, forces it to focus its interventions on very risky, even toxic, financial products and niche products, such as investments in old parchments. The regulation in force, too lenient with abusive speculation and high-frequency trading, does not allow the Authority to genuinely work towards the consolidation of financial markets and, with regard to fiscal control, the non-publication of data related to company activity in tax havens directly impedes its freedom of action. While cryptocurrency, which is ultra-speculative, calls for the greatest distrust on our part, the European Securities and Markets Authority underlines their potential, without seeing it as a real risk to stability. It is even concerned about emerging national legislation on this issue and opposes the extension of a regulation which, in its view, could legitimise cryptoactives and encourage their adoption. It therefore prefers to encourage investor information and the creation of a tailor-made regime, which is sufficiently flexible. We know the song: with flexibility, ladies and gentlemen, there is a risk of dislocation! Finally, I would like to point out that while the European Commission has recently increased the powers of the European Securities and Markets Authority to respond to the post-Brexit risk of a race at least so-called fiscal, in this race, France is in the lead. It must be said that the Government does not spare its efforts: reduction of the taxation of impoverished persons by adjustments to the flat tax, abolition of the marginal part of the wage tax, cancellation of the extension of the tax on financial transactions to infra-dabital operations... It's a long list. The creation of international schools and high schools for the children of Brexit is also part of the logic that schools of excellence should be reserved for some, in this case for a globalized elite, when we intend to guarantee it for all. The opposite side of the scene is also the famous "Bienvenue en France" strategy, which shows the conception of globalization that a certain elite can have.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u5	[[Applause on the SOC and LT benches]] We are, ladies and gentlemen, in a car of which we no longer have control at all. Have we ever had her? I don't believe it. While the financialisation of the economy is drawing a world where businesses and human lives are just chips in a lying poker game, while everything invites us to fight against this disconnection that dehumanizes and germinates the destruction of the general interest and the environment, the European financial surveillance system is far from being the sharpest knife in the drawer. Who can decently think today that we can "at the same time" – to use your fetish expression – defend our ecosystem, promote the energy transition and develop industrial employment while maintaining practices such as high-frequency trading or speculation on raw materials? It is this choice, above all, that must guide our European policy. Common goods or finance, freedom for all or freedom for financial markets: obviously you have chosen, and you are stubborn in this choice – but we too have chosen: we have chosen the future, the commons, life and freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u6	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement to set up the European Securities and Markets Authority in Paris leads us to refer not only to this installation itself, but also and above all to the content of the policy towards the financial markets led by the European Union and France. This agreement, known as the "headquarters agreement", is classic and that is why the GDR Group will vote in favour of this draft law, which will make it possible to formalise the provisions aimed at ensuring the proper functioning of the European Securities and Markets Authority, ESMA, and its 230 permanent agents. ESMA was established in 2010 as a reminder; it has been based in Paris since 1 January 2011. It is an independent authority of the European Union, which aims to improve investor protection and to promote the stability and smooth functioning of financial markets. It was the crisis of 2007 that prompted the need to reform the European financial supervision system. The provisions of this agreement do not require any modification of French law, since the European Securities and Markets Authority has been based in Paris since its opening on 1 January 2011. However, it did so without a seat agreement. This Agreement will therefore make it possible to "officialise", in a way, the installation of the Authority, by guaranteeing to it the privileges specific to any European institution, i.e. the tax privileges of employees, which are in the European tax system and not in the French system, the privileges relating to VAT, since European officials do not pay VAT beyond EUR 150, the privileges attached to the movement of materials and the legal immunity of its members, who are responsible only to the European Union. If this agreement is part of what has traditionally been done, consideration should be given to the extent of these privileges. The lack of agreement has not created any operational difficulties so far, but this text allows us to put ourselves "into the nails" of the ESMA Regulation. So why did you do it more than eight years after this authority was actually installed in Paris? It's the Brexit that's messed things up. With the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, several institutions, previously hosted overseas, had to move. This was particularly the case for the European Banking Authority, EBA, which moved from London to Paris last March. The geographical rapprochement of these two institutions, EBA and ESMA, will no doubt allow a merger to be envisaged in the long term. In order to prepare for this possible change, France and the European Union want everything to be legally fixed. It is therefore possible indirectly to place this headquarters agreement within the framework of the installation of EBA in Paris because of the Brexit. This is for the first part of context. The second part is less gleaming. ESMA settles in Paris at the moment when the President of the Republic is engaged in an intense belly dance for London's finance to make the most of Brexit, at least if it ends up happening! As soon as you came to power, you removed the upper portion of the wage tax, reformed the tax on free shares, and reformed the tax system for tax-payers, i.e. employees of subsidiaries sent to their headquarters. The other indecency concerns the abolition of the tax on intraday financial transactions. A tax on financial transactions exists in France, but it only covers transactions with a maturity of more than one day. Under the law, transactions less than one day had to be taxed as of January 1, 2018, but the President and the majority hastened to remove this provision in order not to frustrate finance. Communist MEPs believe that finance must be subject to the needs of the real economy, not to be freed. It has already done enough damage like that, and people are tired of being called to rescue as soon as financial folly overflows and capitalism has to be saved. Rather than encouraging facilities and ultraliberalism in this environment, regulatory institutions should be strengthened. In a timely manner, the European Union is trying to strengthen ESMA's competences, as in 2017 when it was necessary to anticipate the potential dumping of financial services in the event of actual Brexit. The Union then entrusted the European Securities and Markets Authority with the supervision of regulated funds, insurance and benchmarks and granted it direct control of market transaction data. Its role, now recognised as an attempt to stabilize European finance, remains, in our view, very inadequate. As a pillar of regulation, ESMA and the European Banking Authority, also based in Paris because of the Brexit, should have a much more powerful role than today and better controlled democratically. For, in essence, the question asked is that of the democratic takeover of finance. On this point, Europe remains lacunae and often acts as a Trojan horse of out-of-control finance. In this respect, France should be on the initiative for the rapid introduction of a European tax on ambitious financial transactions. This project, which is discreetly excluded and blocked by several Member States, including France, should be opened to calm the ardour of international finance. With a broad base, a relatively low rate and daily and intraday taxation, the return on such a tax would be high, given the huge volumes that are traded on European financial markets. Its revenue could finance official development assistance, European public services, ecological transition projects and even part of the European Union's own budget. This tax would also have the virtue of calming the financial boiler by removing all these unnecessary speculative transactions from the real economy. The European Union should also work on a European directive on the separation of banking activities, traditional and financial activities. Such a separation would ease financial flows and avoid the terrible haemorrhages we experienced during the 2007 crisis. It would be far more ambitious than the law implemented in our country in 2012, which did not separate anything at all. Finally, to enable the banking sector to be more resilient in the event of a serious crisis, it would be necessary to dismantle into smaller entities too large banking institutions – these famous "too big to fail" with financial balances higher than the gross domestic product of some states. These actions should be carried out beating drum because, ten years after the financial crisis, as we have just said, the ever-increasing threat on our continent is looming. And the question is not even whether a crisis will happen, but when and how big it will be. Finally, in order to assist the Authority, the Communist deputies proposed a very firm framework for lobbying activities with the European institutions, including the AEMF. The weight of the lobbies in the European Union is overwhelming, and its inaction in the framework of European finance is to be put directly to the credit of all those who are working to ensure that regulation is only an easily bypassable facade. So many reforms must be carried out to strongly domesticate the world of finance and to limit a tragedy in the next crisis, but so little political will is seen to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u8	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u9	The European Securities and Markets Authority was born out of a need to ensure the financial stability of the Union, to ensure the proper functioning of financial markets and to protect investors in the wake of the serious global financial crisis of 2007-2008. The creation of this authority was part of a series of measures, including the use in 2010 of a European system of financial supervision – SESF – which includes three other supervisory bodies, including one based in London and two in Frankfurt. These two financial centres, London and Frankfurt, are in competition with Paris in terms of financial attractiveness. The creation of the ESFS, this integrated network of national and European authorities, was imperative and, in this context, the adoption of the European regulation on baptismal facts, the European Securities and Markets Authority, has given it a wide range of tasks. In particular, ESMA must "take action to improve the functioning of the internal market, in particular by ensuring a high level of regulation and supervision". This new approach to market surveillance was essential, as the financial crisis had revealed worrying flaws which the European Union had to close. Thus, the system of cooperation that existed between national authorities, whose competence rested at the borders of the Member States, had proved insufficient in the face of a global crisis arising from the drifts of globalisation. Such a change in the surveillance of financial markets was essential, as this crisis has had an impact on the purchasing power of our citizens and on the stability of European states. The need for change echoes this phrase by Jean Monnet, who felt that "men accept change only in necessity and they see necessity only in the crisis". This is really what led to the establishment of the ESFS and the European Securities and Markets Authority. This one, also created in 2010, is based in Paris. It therefore plays an essential role, and can only do so if European officials and staff working there are given a set of prerogatives for this. To the extent that its tasks can go as far as sanctioning, it is essential, since the Regulation on its creation remains quite elliptical on this point, to give it the means to act independently vis-à-vis the Member States. However, in this case, acting independently does not mean that the Autorité des marchés financiers has an autonomous regulatory power. Its role is limited, and must be limited, to a power of proposal, because we must not undermine the institutional balance provided by the triangle formed by the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council. As such, it seems interesting to consider the case law of the Court of Justice of 22 January 2014 – ‘United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland versus European Parliament and Council of the European Union' – according to which ESMA is part of the Union bodies with the power to take acts intended to produce legal effects with respect to third parties. In other words, ESMA may, in some cases, have a normative power. We therefore believe that it is essential to ensure that the delegations entrusted to it are adequately framed, both procedurally and substantively, so as not to threaten the institutional balance. It is also important to consider the evolution of the supervisory framework for professionals involved in financial markets. Indeed, in the current state of law, this issue is essentially a matter for national authorities. However, there seems to be a tendency to entrust more and more prerogatives at European level. So, just a few days before the European elections, the consideration of this bill must be an opportunity to ask ourselves about the model of market surveillance we want. Should the supervision of certain market players be entrusted to a centralised authority, such as ESMA, and thus call into question the power initially granted to the national authorities? For the Liberties and Territories Group, it is essential to reflect on the evolution of this model in order to ensure a harmonious and fully operational functioning of ESMA and the national authorities with which it interacts. At the same time, the proper functioning of this authority is based on immunities and privileges that guarantee its autonomy vis-à-vis States and its ability to act effectively. Let us not be mistaken, these immunities are not granted in the personal interest of the members and agents of the Authority: they are of a functional nature indispensable for the proper functioning of the Autorité des marchés financiers. Privileges and immunities are also perfectly regulated by Protocol No 7 of the Union, annexed to the TEU – Treaty on European Union – and to the TFEU – Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u10	This protocol is not respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u11	Moreover, Article 67 of the European Regulation on the Autorité des marchés financiers expressly states that this Protocol applies to the Authority and its staff. Article 74 of the same regulation, entitled "Headquarters Agreement", provides that "the provisions relating to the establishment of the Autorité" in France and "the services to be provided" by our country, "as well as the specific rules applicable to the Executive Director, the members of the board of directors, the members of the staff of the Autorité and the members of their families shall be laid down in a headquarters agreement concluded, after approval by the board of directors, between the Autorité and" France. Moreover, it is specified that France must ensure "the best possible conditions for the proper functioning of the Authority". This headquarters agreement, provided for in the regulation adopted in 2010, was therefore to be concluded and signed. This was the case in August 2016, more than five years after the installation of the Autorité in Paris. It would therefore have taken three more years for the parliamentary calendar to allow the discussion of this text in the National Assembly in open session. It's about time! The Authority, for its part, did not wait until the signature of this headquarters agreement to operate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u12	It's been working very well for ten years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u13	With 229 permanent agents, including 60 French, and a budget of 42 million euros in 2017, it allows France to show itself as a real financial place on the international scene. This is all the more important in the context of Brexit, where the relocation of thousands of jobs from the finance sector to the European continent is expected. Our country is also trying to attract a number of these jobs, estimated at 3500 by Paris Europlace, which is responsible for the promotion and development of the Parisian financial centre. Another consequence that should benefit France is the transfer of another authority from the ESFS, the European Banking Authority, currently based in London. The fact that the European financial market authority has been established in good conditions in Paris for several years is an additional argument in favour of this transfer. All these trips will obviously have positive economic repercussions for France – for example, the consequences for accommodation, catering, tourism, etc., of the business movements that will be incorporated into these authorities. For all these reasons, we find it gratifying that France is the seat of such European authorities, even if the choice of the capital does not make it possible to combat the excessive centralism that we denounce. [[Rodrigue Kokouendo applauds]] If the main provisions contained in it have already entered into force, it is now up to us to approve the agreement signed on 23 August 2016. This is what the Libertés et territoires group will do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u14	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u15	Established in 2010, the European Securities and Markets Authority is now a recognised independent authority, which plays an important role in the stability of the sector. Our colleague's report is perfectly clear: the agreement presented to us is, in substance, quite classic with regard to this kind of international institution. It contains several provisions relating to the status of that authority and its staff. In my turn, I would like to recall that the articles of the headquarters agreement between the ESMA Board of Directors and the host State concern the legal status of the authority, the inviolability of its premises, the tax provisions, and the privileges and immunities accorded to staff members. The justification for this last aspect, which has been discussed at length, raises legitimate questions. However, after reflection, it should be recalled that immunities above all guarantee the independence of the authority. As for the question of privileges – which I do not underestimate – it is a recurring subject of discussion, but in our view the agreement does not create any exceptions to what is already practiced with regard to this type of authority. In concrete terms, the arrival of the European Securities and Markets Authority in Paris is due to the context of Brexit – still uncertain to date – which should force the City's financial centre to relocate approximately 10,000 jobs to the territory of the European Union. France is an ideal place to welcome them. Indeed, our country has taken many initiatives to attract both businesses and jobs related to the financial sector. Paris Europlace works in this direction; It must promote the Parisian financial centre. Similarly, we have passed various provisions for this purpose in the 2019 Finance Bill. Among the tasks of the European Securities and Markets Authority, three are essential: the protection of investors and the recognition of their responsibility; ensuring the proper functioning of the markets; Finally, the assurance of financial stability, an aspect of which the events of past years have shown the importance. Its activity is based on four main areas: risk assessment, the search for harmonisation of standards and the regulatory framework within the Union, the promotion of good practice within the Member States and the monitoring of financial innovations. In close cooperation with the European Commission and the Member States of the Union, the European Securities and Markets Authority has provided a concrete and pragmatic response to the 2008 crisis, which has affected our economies in a lasting way. The causes are known: among other things, poor regulation of the financial sector, a lack of consultation and standardization of practices, increased competition. All this demonstrates the importance of an authority able to put an end to these shortcomings and to prevent crises of this nature from reoccurring. It is therefore important that we support the activity of ESMA, in line with France's position on the international stage. The Democratic and Related Movement Group therefore supports this initiative and even hopes that the leading role of our country and this authority will be further strengthened. We know that, whatever the critics say, European cooperation is the only possible way, and the gradual integration of the Member States is the only way out if we are to ensure the stability, reliability and prosperity of our common area. The political will to do so must therefore be strongly encouraged, without which everyone knows, divisions and confrontations will emerge, and our European area will be weakened as well as the countries that make up it. To weaken Europe, in fact, is to favour major players such as China and the United States, so it is to weaken European countries and, consequently, France. Some extremist parties who say otherwise prosper on lies: they must be denounced without complacency, what I am doing here. ESMA belongs precisely to the institutions that strengthen the influence of Europe, therefore of France. Many topics of great topicality are potentially explosive for markets, therefore for our daily lives, if we do not address them at the root. I am thinking, among other things, of backstopping, the single resolution fund and the regulation of hedge funds. These issues should therefore be dealt with in close cooperation between the European Financial Markets Authority and the European Banking Authority. While the task appears to be heavy and the objectives are sometimes uncertain, we must nevertheless welcome the fact that many financial institutions can find a place to set up in France. This is indeed an indisputable opportunity for employment and an undeniable source of attractiveness for our country – which, I recall, was ranked this year as one of the five most attractive countries in the world. Above all – it is on this point that I would like to insist on concluding – the regulated vision of the economy defended by France needs to be further strengthened. We need to have all these elements in mind in order to gain a political advantage from the situation. We must demonstrate within our European area that we are able to establish a financial framework that guarantees both the dynamism of our economies, the stability and transparency of rules and the ethics of practices, bearing in mind that the economy must primarily serve to improve the living conditions of European citizens. Only in this way can we show that we can reform while creating a more virtuous and prosperous system that will make Europe a unique space and model in the world. All of these reasons must lead us to approve a bill that presents, on the form, quite conventional guarantees, as I said, with regard to the reception of such institutions, but which has the substance of very important advances in the evolution of our financial system. In defending this ambition, France has a major role to play. It is important that we send a strong sign of support for this vision in order to get out of the UK's exit from Europe and learn from the serious economic crisis of 2008. That is all that is played in the installation in France of ESMA. [[The president of the committee, the rapporteur and Mrs Sophie Mette applaud]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u17	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u18	[[turning towards empty benches]] [[Smile]] Madam Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group, I shall disappoint you: my group will not vote for this text, but will abstain, for Republican and European reasons. Articles 16 and 17 of the Agreement do not respect Protocol 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union. That's a shame. The text therefore presents a defect of form: it is outside the nails, which is neither republican nor European nor legitimate. But I'll come back. When I hear about immunity or privileges, especially in this Chamber, I want to recall the French tendency to reduce them since 1792-1793. Increasing them always bothers me a little, whether at European, French or Parliament level. Here, we pay our taxes, which people often forget. But the text that we are about to vote exempts all the people who work for ESMA from paying tax in France, which will cost our nation 2.7 million euros. I'm sorry, but why wouldn't an official from an authority who is supposed to embody integrity, transparency and exemplaryness pay his taxes? It seems to me completely insane and totally illegitimate. There are probably no more than 5000 people listening to us today, but imagine that this is known! 2.7 million losses! These people do not pay the tax due to the nation: it is lamentable. Secondly, why is the authority exempt from paying VAT on purchases in excess of EUR 150? Go say that in any TPE: it's lamentable! Come on, it's open bar, it's all right! Thirdly, that civil servants enjoy some form of immunity, possibly quasi-diplomatic, i.e.; But why extend this immunity to the members of the supervisory board, the board of directors, and above all to all the technical advisers, who are chosen in a perfectly arbitrary manner? Immunities and privileges for technical advisers about whom we don't know what can happen! The history of all governments without exception has shown the way in which some technical advisers can be quietly re-established. That is the problem that this authority poses to us. This situation is not possible in a France that demands equality, justice, the payment of taxes, especially VAT – for all, poor and rich. However, no one has asked these questions so far in this rostrum. Worse still, we can't get into the premises. No search, no requisition. It's not okay, either! What if something bad happens? Financial arbitrations have been held quite recently, which are particularly limited... And one could not enter the premises of an organization dedicated to transparency and fairness! According to the agreement, immunity can only be waived if the interests of the European Union are at stake. But what does that mean? It has no legal value! There are limits that we are going beyond, I say clearly. André François-Poncet, under-secretary of state for the national economy on several occasions in the early 1930s, subsequently had an exceptional diplomatic career. But we are not at all in the same context: this is not about diplomatic economists, but about people who make the economy and to whom they are given status and immunity and privileges. And, I repeat, the Assembly's vocation has never been to increase the privileges of a number of people, including technical advisers from whom they are not even known. We will therefore abstain or vote against the text on the basis of your reply, Madam Secretary of State, because the situation is serious. While we are pleased to welcome the seat of the European Securities and Markets Authority in Paris, the immunity and privileges we are discussing here far exceed those which we do not even accept for Members anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u19	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u20	We are considering the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the European Securities and Markets Authority concerning the seat of the Authority and its privileges and immunities on French territory. As our colleagues have pointed out, the European Securities and Markets Authority, together with the European Insurance and Pensions Authority, located in Germany, and the European Banking Authority, located in London, is one of the financial market surveillance bodies created after the serious financial crisis of 2008. The main objective was to reassure the economic and financial world of Europe's ability to provide investors with strengthened mechanisms to ensure the stability and smooth functioning of financial markets. This Agreement shall specify and endorse the privileges and immunities enjoyed by the Agency and its staff under the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union annexed to the Treaties on the EU and on its functioning. It does indeed ensure the necessary security of the operating bodies of the decentralised agencies of the European Union and is of course binding on all the Member States which host these agencies. Apart from the security provisions which allow these agencies to have a quasi-territorial status, their staff are subject to tax provisions specific to all staff dependent on the European institutions. In order to ensure a specific status and conditions for the exercise of the professions covered by ESMA, the 23 articles of the draft law provide for security as well as specific advantages for the members of the Authority and their families. It is supplemented by Protocol No 7 on the privileges and immunities of the EU annexed to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union – TFEU – and by Regulation No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Supervisory Authority. The signing of this Agreement also forms part of the implementation of the Joint Declaration of the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission on decentralised agencies of 12 June 2012, which recommends the conclusion of headquarters agreements between the decentralised agencies of the Union and the Member States hosting them. In this connection, I would remind you that in addition to the European Securities and Markets Authority, France is already hosting the Agency of the European Union of Railways, based in Lille and Valenciennes, as well as the Community Plant Variety Office, based in Angers. They will soon be joined by the European Banking Authority, currently in London, which will settle in Paris following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. This is not to be welcomed: the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union is a trauma for the Union even more than for the British. This is not to be welcomed, but the expatriation of a large number of financial organizations and banking institutions will give Paris a new dimension of international banking. The examination of this text to set the conditions for the establishment and functioning of European agencies is also an opportunity to recall that we must all, here, regardless of our convictions, mobilize until the last moment to encourage the French to vote in the European elections so that, in the face of the challenges of this century, namely globalisation, new technologies, the framework for digital assets, everyone understands that national borders are illusory and that only a European-wide approach counts. Countries such as China and the United States are indeed, if not at the cutting edge of the world, much more advanced than we are. These structural treaty provisions will then allow for a better integration of the European Banking Authority, which will settle in Paris after Brexit. These transfers of Brexit-related activities benefit France, which has been pursuing a particularly proactive policy to attract investors to its territory for more than two years. France is becoming attractive again and the slow pace of Community progress in financial regulation explains the President of the Republic's desire to encourage a coalition to build a strong Europe. The current economic model is to be reinvented and the President of the Republic is right to consider that part of the finance should be reoriented, with the creation of a climate bank to favour the reorientation of part of the savings of the French and Europeans towards green growth for a solidarity economy. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u21	On the single article, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u22	Beautiful diatribe, Mrs Autain, against the European Union,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u23	She is no longer present in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u24	... in accordance with Jean-Luc Mélenchon's desire to get out of it in his A-plan B strategy. An exit from the Union which would be a shame because you would prevent us from having the means to regulate finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u25	Excellent remark!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u26	[[Ms. Chairman of the Committee]] It is because we are Europe and because we remain united that we can regulate finance. Nevertheless, it was a pleasure to hear Clementine Autain... I would also have liked to hear Marine Le Pen denounce the futility of the European Union and its tools, when it is the European Parliament which, for so many years, has enabled them and its party to live through their questionable methods, which could cost them 300,000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u27	She doesn't even work there anyway in the European Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] When and how does it intend to repay Europe? Engaged by the French Presidency of the Council of the Union, the joint action to regulate financial markets was born at the heart of the financial crisis. The absence of a thorough and harmonised regulation, the failures of our banking and insurance system, their consequences for our citizens, have been revealed with unprecedented intensity. The European Securities and Markets Authority fulfils three main tasks: to contribute to the financial stability of the European Union, to protect investors and to ensure the proper functioning of the markets. I would like to stress the attractiveness of France – which we, the majority, promote to the President of the Republic. The presence of the headquarters of the European Securities and Markets Authority in Paris demonstrates the financial attractiveness of our capital. It was also an important element in the transfer of the headquarters of the European Banking Authority, now based in London. Their joint presence will enhance and enhance our attractiveness, particularly in the context of Brexit. Faced with the risk of losing the financial passport, due to the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the Single Market, several large companies have already announced that they have chosen to settle in Paris with, at the key, job creation, wealth and the development of the Parisian financial centre which thus affirms its European and global scope. For the past two years, we have been working to improve its attractiveness. The introduction of the flat tax, the reform of corporate taxation are examples of the government's strategy in this area. The arrival of these companies shows that it is bearing fruit. The attractiveness of the Paris financial centre is a benefit for all and will contribute to the country's visibility. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is my honour to speak last, and I call on you to vote unreservedly for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u30	Excellent intervention that raises the level of some others...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u31	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u32	First of all, I would like to point out that financial regulation has been significantly strengthened since 2008 – Michel Barnier has also welcomed the fact that he has passed more than forty regulations and directives to this end, so that we can protect ourselves against further crises. It is important to recall that some stakeholders may suggest that we do nothing, that we release our vigilance over financial risks. Secondly, if it is today that the House is considering this text, it is not because we would have wanted to make any good offer following the Brexit, but because the European Commission has requested that agreements on the seats of the authorities be ratified for all European authorities, which was not initially foreseen since the provisions of Protocol No 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union, annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in relations between the Authority and the Government, were sufficient to lay down the rules for the installation of the authorities. We will have to do the same for the European Banking Authority – an agreement has already been signed and it will then have to be ratified – but also for the Railway Agency, located in Lille and Valenciennes, and the Community Plant Variety Office, located in Angers. We will also have to clarify the European procedures to get out of a de facto status. I wanted to remind Mrs Autain, who unfortunately left, that international high schools are not intended for a foreign elite. I was a Member of Parliament for Essonne, elected in a constituency that will host, in 2021, an international high school in Palaiseau; and I can assure you that this institution will be first and foremost an element of attractiveness, mixness and outreach for the territory and for the students and families who live there. Previously, a high school will open in Courbevoie in 2019. I am insisting on it locally, but it is first and foremost the families of the territories concerned who live it as a benefit. I come to the end, Mr Hutin, of immunities and privileges. Why do the agents of the European authorities pay a progressive tax – at rates ranging from 8 to 45 % – paid to the European budget rather than to the state in which they are located?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u33	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u34	I will take the example of fishing. The European Fisheries Control Agency – AECP – is based in Vigo, Spain. However, we find it preferable that the documents produced by the staff of the AECP, or the documents on which they work, are not easily accessible to a country that could use the information obtained – and which other countries would not have – to introduce national regulations that would benefit Spanish fishermen here, rather than other European fishermen. Why, for the officials of the authorities, is there provision for tax derogations? It is simply a matter, in the case of this text, of ensuring that France, by adjusting its tax system, does not make itself kind to the agents of ESMA so that they are less observant of the French financial actors... Therefore, in the interests of our own protection and European harmony, it has been foreseen that these people, I repeat, will pay taxes which are returned to the European budget. The spouse and children of these agents, if they work in France, will pay taxes in France for their activity in France; VAT exemption is only allowed for large purchases and, for all purchases of daily life, they will indeed have to pay VAT. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You will be able to vote, honourable Member, by being perfectly enlightened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u35	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u36	Thank you for your clarification, Madam Secretary of State, and I thank the House for my explanation of vote on the single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u37	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u38	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 34 Number of votes cast 33 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 33 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u39	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law authorizing the approval of the framework agreement on cross-border health cooperation between the Government of the French Republic and the Swiss Federal Council and of the framework agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on cross-border health cooperation (No 390, 1436).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u40	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u41	I took a moment to join the gallery, Mr President, because I was distracted by the arrival of the editor of the Quai d'Orsay for Switzerland, which I had the chance to meet a few days ago, who works daily with a blind dog. The cross-border cooperation agreements we are looking at illustrate the importance of cross-border areas in the construction of the European project. These spaces are places of exchange and daily lives shared between citizens who do not have the same nationality: they are similar to the European project which aims to build a community of collective life and soothed around concrete projects. We are discussing the beginning of cooperation between public services essential to the daily life of health services. The framework agreements for cross-border health cooperation signed between France and Switzerland on 27 September 2016 and between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on 21 November 2016 are the result of negotiations initiated in 2014 in order to develop synergies in the provision of care and to remove the difficulties, in particular administrative difficulties, which obviate cooperation between health institutions. By promoting the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals in the border regions of Luxembourg and Switzerland, the cooperation developed in the field of health aims to bring a concrete and direct benefit to citizens: it is a question of enabling them to benefit from quality care as close as possible to their place of residence, both in a context of emergency relief – the interest of this cooperation is, in this case, particularly clear – as well as of programmed care or chronic pathologies. The objective of these framework agreements is thus to ensure better access to quality care for living areas around the border, ensuring continuity of care and the most rapid use of emergency relief, while promoting the sharing of knowledge, practices, and human and material resources. These framework agreements, limited to cross-border regions, also aim to provide a framework for the conclusion of local health cooperation agreements between French and Luxembourg and Swiss health actors, depending on the deficits and needs identified. Very long discussions have already taken place in the Chamber on medical presence; These texts provide us with very clear and concrete answers by making it possible to share medical means on both sides of a border. If a country lacks such a medical specialty, the residents of the border area will have access to specialists from the neighbouring country. In fact, local conventions will be able to organise not only the cross-border intervention of emergency relief, by facilitating the pooling of resources, but also hospital cooperation for certain medical specialties, which will make it possible to provide quality care. The cross-border issue is at the heart of the activities of a part of the teams of the European Union leadership at the Quai d'Orsay, which has an ambassador for cross-border issues. Beyond the cooperation we are discussing today, the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, of which we have already spoken at length, has the particularity of providing for the implementation of very concrete projects, such as industrial or citizens, which make it possible to facilitate the lives of those who live today on both sides of a line that has become, on a daily basis, almost imaginary or artificial, even if it retains its political importance since we retain our borders and our nations remain – our Europe is, above all, a Europe of the States that pool resources. I hope that our discussions on this concrete European project will be fruitful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u42	Mr Bruno Fuchs, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u43	We come to the conclusion of the National Assembly's consideration of the draft law on two framework agreements for cross-border health cooperation, both in 2016, with Switzerland and Luxembourg. Cross-border cooperation is one of the dimensions of our increasingly important diplomacy. It may not be the most prestigious, but it is the most visible and concrete in the eyes of our fellow citizens. Is that not the reason for being essential to our political action? That is what our fellow citizens expect, and that is why we also have a duty to speed up cooperation in all areas, whether in fiscal, social, cultural, sporting or civil protection matters – on this last subject, the Committee on Foreign Affairs was yesterday considering a bill that authorizes the approval of an agreement between France, Switzerland and CERN – the European Organisation for Nuclear Research. We must ensure that everything becomes simpler at the border crossing, even if the administrations and rules are necessarily different on the one hand and on the other. This is the whole issue of cross-border cooperation. We are looking at framework agreements whose stipulations are by definition general. They allow the development of multiple local co-operations around many health-related topics. These agreements also designate the administrations responsible for implementing them. The most important thing is not so much in the texts themselves as in the willingness of the actors on the ground to seize these subjects and to make them live and prosper. For this reason, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has set up a working group to analyse the conditions for the proper implementation of the framework agreements. I thank Mr Frédéric Barbier, rapporteur of the working group, and all our colleagues, whether they are members of this group or not, who took part in our hearings and the trips to Geneva and Basel. This work has enabled us to see a strong expectation for a better articulation of health care with our Swiss and Luxembourg neighbours. To be frank, this expectation is probably a little higher on the Swiss and Luxembourg sides than on the French side...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u44	That's perfectly true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u45	It is necessary to develop these cooperations, especially since 170000 French regularly cross the border to work in Switzerland, and they are 100,000 to do so to join Luxembourg. While the social demand for health cooperation is strong, for various reasons, it is more difficult to implement with Luxembourg and especially with Switzerland than with our other European neighbours. A first difficulty, common to our two neighbours, lies in the fact that both have a very high attractiveness, a very high standard of living and wages. This situation leads, on the French side of the border, to a shortage of health professionals, and it complicates the management of hospitals. Differences in costs also complicate cross-border discussions on patient care due to the costs of care: the same health practice is much more expensive in Switzerland than in France. This is a strong enough brake for RSAs – regional health agencies – to allow French patients to be cared for in Luxembourg or Switzerland, whereas it would often be more rapid. In Alsace, for example, it takes six or nine months to get an appointment with a specialist when, on the other side of the border, we wait a week or fifteen days. This shows the full value of these cooperations for the citizens. Two other difficulties are specific to Switzerland. On the one hand, this federal country is very decentralized, which requires discussion with each canton. On the other hand, Switzerland is not a member of the European Union: it is bound to it by a multitude of bilateral agreements which take the essence, but not the whole, of the European acquis. The European framework which allows for a certain fluidity in the financial support of cross-border care is therefore only partially applicable. I would point out that, without the general European framework, cross-border cooperation in health care would be much more complex, as care should be negotiated on a case-by-case basis. This is another vivid demonstration of the usefulness and importance of the European Union in the daily lives of our citizens. All too often, these obvious cases are unknown, attesting to the role played by Europe. This role in health is indisputable. The framework agreements have appeared to us, in many respects, to be a little too general. In order to clarify its outline and facilitate its implementation, the working group produced a set of recommendations which focus first on the administrations responsible for implementing local health cooperation. As a follow-up to my remarks, I will focus more on these recommendations than on the framework agreements themselves. One of the main questions concerned the choice, in the agreement with Switzerland, of the only primary health insurance fund in Haute-Savoie for relations with that country. I would remind you that with the Swiss, we have to discuss canton by canton. If we did not change the text of the agreement in 2016, which would have delayed its entry into force, we decided to allow its approval while making a number of proposals. In particular, we hope that a single French caisse will not be confronted with the caisses of the eight cantons, which provide a stronger proximity and responsiveness on the Swiss side. There is also an important informational effort to be made. There is nothing very structured to ensure that frontier workers and, more generally, border populations are aware of the opportunities but also of the constraints on cross-border care issues and social security issues. This information is most often, if not almost exclusively, done by border associations, so it does not reach the entire population concerned. Health insurance funds need to be made aware that they are expected to perform more effectively in informing citizens. This is one of the strong recommendations of the working group. Much of the litigation in recent years over the social affiliation of Swiss borderers, which has poisoned the lives of thousands of households, is probably due to a lack of knowledge of the rules of law. This lack of knowledge may have been the result of good-faith insured persons, but also of the blindness, it may be said, of the administration which finally lost to justice after prosecuting thousands of people. Let us hope that these conventions and also the provisions of the law of 10 August 2018 for a state at the service of a society of trust, known as ESSOC law, come radically to change the practices of distrust in order to establish a true partnership of trust. As regards the regional health agencies, the other major deconcentrated administrative actor, we have seen a very uneven mobilisation between the three agencies involved in relations with Switzerland. Only one agency is involved in relations with Luxembourg. The law provides that the regional health project developed by the RSA must include a cross-border component. This requirement must be respected, which is clearly not so far the case in one of our regions. More generally, the working group recommends ensuring that each border SRA designates a high-level reference framework for cross-border cooperation. We also recommend the establishment of a framework for the exchange of best practices on cross-border cooperation between the SRAs in order to mobilise diplomatic advisers from regional prefectures on these health issues. We have found that cross-border cooperation is now developing mainly with the help of the European Interreg funds, which are by nature temporary. In order to make long-term commitments, it would be useful to have a long-term national mechanism. This set of recommendations directly concerns the functioning of administrations, and possibly the state budget. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will be able to provide us with answers and commitments on these various points. We then identified recommendations of a less general nature, which corresponded to the concerns expressed by the people we met at the hearings. They recalled that the interest of the people concerned, that is, of the patients since we are in the field of health, was a priority. First and foremost, there is a need for shared diagnosis in cross-border living areas on the needs of populations and on the provision of existing care. At present, hospitals in border regions often ignore the skills and capabilities of their counterparts across the border; sometimes they have more relations with a distant CHU, with which, for example, they exchange very frequently internals and researchers, than with the neighbouring hospital, a few kilometres from the other side of the border. There is a need to develop forums for shared knowledge of health needs and a shared diagnosis of the resulting priorities in cross-border living areas. Secondly, there is also a need for reciprocity in cross-border reflections on these issues. This is yet another issue, because it is all too often said that institutions on the "other side" do only stall to make their equipment or beds more profitable by welcoming cross-border patients, but do not really care about balanced cooperation. In addition, there is also very clearly a concern about the demographics of the health professions, which makes it necessary to find practical solutions with our Swiss and Luxembourg friends in order to overcome situations of staff shortages today difficult to manage, especially in France as I explained at the beginning of my intervention. For example, the figures speak for themselves: two thirds of nurses in university hospitals in Geneva are French and, at the same time, high-savour hospitals face an annual turnover of 20% to 25% for their nurses and recurring recruitment problems. The last set of recommendations of the working group, which also responds to a very high demand from the territories and individuals concerned, relates to the democratic governance of cross-border health cooperation. In particular, we call for the establishment of commissions of users, health professionals and elected representatives of the territories in border living areas. This is essential when patients are too little involved in their care journey. Now is the time to put them at the centre of the reflections on the subject. You will not be surprised if I end up on an Alsatian note, evoking the European community of Alsace which the two Alsatian departments decided to form from 1 January 2021. In our report, published last November, we wanted health cooperation to be an integral part of the areas where the new community will exercise its powers as a leader in cross-border cooperation. The draft law on the European community of Alsace, tabled in February and adopted by the Senate at first reading on 4 April, actually provides, which I am pleased to say, that the Alsatian scheme of cross-border cooperation established by the community will include a health component – which should be reinforced by an amendment that I will propose in due course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u46	How long does his speech last, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u47	On the other hand, this bill ignores the 2016 framework agreement with Switzerland that we are going to approve today. It is in my opinion a lack that our assembly will have to fill. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote on the bill we are considering today, which provides for better cross-border cooperation with Switzerland and Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u49	Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you were concerned about the time that is running out: you now have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u50	One hundred and seventy thousand of our compatriots travel daily to Switzerland to work there and 100,000 to Luxembourg, to which should be added their families and relatives, all those who live a few kilometres from the borders even if they do not cross them every day. Living close to a border often represents opportunities but sometimes also difficulties in everyday life, because the rules are not the same, and everything can very quickly become complicated to get treated or to move around in public transport. Cross-border cooperation is therefore a necessity. Just as we have abolished border crossings, we must now reduce the bureaucratic borders that complicate daily life in border areas. [[Smile]] Today we are looking at the excellent report by Bruno Fuchs, of which we have had a very interesting but collected presentation, two health cooperation projects, respectively with Switzerland and Luxembourg. These two framework agreements will have to be declined and implemented locally. This will largely be the responsibility of regional health agencies and certain primary health insurance funds. In order for these institutions to take into account the challenges of cross-border cooperation and the expectations expressed by our fellow citizens, our Committee on Foreign Affairs has set up a working group which has carried out numerous hearings and trips. This working group, composed of eight Members of the European Parliament who I would like to thank for their involvement, has issued some 15 recommendations. They concern the organisation and mobilisation of our administrations, with particular emphasis, as the rapporteur said, on the appointment of a single primary health insurance fund, that of Haute-Savoie, to deal with all Swiss cantons. This choice has not been understood by the members of the commission, who are waiting for a change on this point. Similarly, our committee wants the expectations of the territories to be better taken into account: we need to listen to the borderers and understand their expectations, we need better information on the ground and shared diagnoses in the cross-border living areas. We therefore call for democratic governance of cross-border cooperation so that it truly meets the local needs of citizens and territories. We will be monitoring in our committee the practical application of these framework agreements through a monitoring group, probably with the same members as the working group. Finally, a word to highlight the European dimension of cross-border health cooperation. Without the European texts that coordinate social security and access to care, cross-border cooperation would be much more difficult. But we will have to go further, for example by setting up a European mechanism to remove the remaining legal and administrative obstacles. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Cross-border cooperation therefore has an important European dimension. But it has above all an important human dimension because it is the daily life of our compatriots that we are talking about. That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs will continue to be involved in monitoring the implementation of these agreements directly and as closely as possible, which I call on you to approve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u51	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u52	The framework agreements between France, Switzerland and Luxembourg on cross-border health cooperation have been discussed for an extremely long time in committee, twice. The first debate was held in February 2018 and concluded that the text was too weak, not least for legal and feasibility reasons on the ground, but also for the social affiliation of the borderers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has therefore resumed its work and, after six months of work, the rapporteur has been able to present a revised and corrected text by several of our colleagues, after several field trips and numerous hearings. This text is now ready to attempt to improve care and access to care on both sides of the French, Luxembourg and Swiss borders. But, despite what I have just recalled, this text still seems insufficient for the GDR Group to vote as it stands. While these framework agreements allow the discussion of health cooperation agreements and thus progress towards improving the health care of cross-border workers, health cooperation remains in crisis, particularly as a result of the conditions of care and the existence of medical deserts on the French side. These agreements have been decided to resolve a crisis in medical demography caused by the departure of many French doctors in Switzerland or Luxembourg, but they will not ultimately resolve this issue. My colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq recalled this in committee: our doctors do nearly ten years of study, financed by our taxes, and then cross the French border to settle in Switzerland or Luxembourg. After which we are obliged to draft cross-border agreements to ask for permission to be treated by these same doctors, who obviously practice local rates, much higher than French rates! It's an aberration. This raises the problem of the free installation of doctors in France and, overall, of the organization of the work of liberal medicine, whether it is generalist or specialized. The question of medical deserts therefore arises with absolute urgency. But beyond that, when we look at the map of medical demography in France, we see so many empty spaces! I know that this is an extremely heated debate, but one day it will still be necessary to show political courage to face this issue and to bear the consequences: either we continue to complain about medical deserts, or we try to organize things differently, as is already done a little bit, i.e. by incentives, by funding studies or by the obligation of years of work due to the State, as well as for senior officials – but by eliminating the possibility of slippers for doctors, this practice of getting redeemed years owed to the State by its private employer. A few figures illustrate this attraction of French health personnel for Switzerland. I quote the report: "According to the statistics of the canton of Geneva for 2014, 35% of the graduates employed by the University Hospitals of Geneva were of French origin. At the nursing level, the proportion was 67%; In the case of caregivers, it was 37%."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u53	And it's not just in health!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u54	That's right, my dear colleague. In parallel, the hospitals in Haute-Savoie struggle to recruit and the turnover of their teams is very strong. We are paying the price, as the report says in covered words, of a staggering health policy, guided solely by the search for budget savings, to the detriment of the working conditions of the healthcare teams. This paralleling allowed by the border clearly shows the reality: when caregivers can leave, they do so because working conditions in French hospitals have become execrable. This is the concrete result of years of austerity in health! All those who remain are concentrated in the major cities and in the south of France. This imbalance complicates the lives of both the French, who suffer from delirious waiting times, of the order of a year and a half for certain specialties in certain territories, including my department of Allier, but also doctors who want to settle in the medical deserts: they are overwhelmed by demands and, although their patient is complete, sometimes forced to take more than they can to cope with this dramatic shortage. Working time that explodes, pressure to treat the inhabitants of a territory in a medical crisis... The doctors who settle in these areas suffer from loneliness, facing immense needs and the lack of close colleagues. To this already calamitous situation, let us add the fact that the medical rates in France are affordable and push the Swiss and Luxembourgers to come and treat themselves at home: we then obtain a complete congestion of the medicine in France in the sectors concerned. Second point: our Assembly will decide on these framework agreements while the report makes important recommendations for amendment. In particular, it recommends that Switzerland be requested to adapt the agreement with regard to the designation of primary reference health insurance funds. While the text has not yet been voted on, we are already asking for an amendment! The method is not commonplace. The Communist MEPs believe that it is easier not to vote on this text and resume the discussion between the French, Swiss and Luxembourg diplomacy in order to reach a clear and definitive agreement, without promises of any amendments which may never come. The other recommendations made in the report are also very interesting, and we could also agree with them. So we're about to adopt an imperfect agreement...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u55	It's a framework agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u56	... while waiting a little while and renegotiating it, we could achieve a much better and, above all, lasting text. Thus, it seems important to solve the problem of disputes relating to the affiliation of frontier workers in Switzerland. The decision of the Court of Cassation asking the Government to recognize the cancellation of border workers from the date of their membership in Switzerland, so that they could return their social contributions, raises questions. Why didn't you get a firm commitment from the Government? In summary, despite the considerable work done by the working group in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Communist Members believe that the results achieved between the first and second versions of the text, although interesting, are still insufficient. That's too bad. We would have had to take more time and mobilize our diplomacy to achieve our goals. This text gives us the impression of staying in the middle of the ford and having to settle for little.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u57	Mr Frédéric Barbier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u58	This afternoon we are considering the draft law authorizing the approval of two framework agreements on cross-border health cooperation, one between France and the Swiss Confederation and the other between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. These agreements, signed by the Swiss Confederation on 27 September 2016 and by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on 21 November 2016, reinforce the continuity and complementarity of the provision of care between countries. These two almost identical agreements were discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in February 2018. It was then decided to suspend the vote and set up a working group, which I led with my dear colleague Bruno Fuchs, rapporteur for the text. The conclusions and recommendations of the working group were discussed on 20 November 2018 by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which then adopted the draft law allowing the two framework agreements to enter into force. We are confident that these agreements will strengthen the continuity of care, be it emergency care, pathology treatment or follow-up care, and will also strengthen our collaboration in the event of a health crisis. Populations in border areas have access to limited care through the demarcation of the border with another country. These framework agreements allow us to overcome geographical barriers. They provide an opportunity to develop health cooperation with neighbouring States and will complement existing agreements with Belgium, Germany and Spain and, more recently, Andorra and Monaco. If the framework agreements presented today concern all the border populations, French, Luxembourg or Swiss, they represent an additional opportunity for French frontier workers. The fluidity in access to cross-border care and the widening of cooperation in the field of health seems particularly necessary for the 175000 workers who cross the border every day to go to Switzerland and the 100,000 who travel daily to Luxembourg. As a member of Parliament for the Doubs, the border department with Switzerland, I am regularly questioned by citizens and local actors about the need for France to encourage cross-border exchanges in order to optimise access to healthcare. Which frontier worker has not hoped that our primary health insurance funds will facilitate his access to a Swiss or Luxembourg practitioner, for example during the meridian break of his work? Some local cooperation already exists between French, Swiss and Luxembourg health partners, based on local agreements. So work has already begun with our neighbours, and it is a whole economic and societal development that is committed. The framework agreements therefore do not create health cooperation: they give it a new dynamic and strengthen the health actors in their relations with Switzerland or Luxembourg, for their ongoing projects and even more so for those they will launch in the future. Moreover, the corresponding agreement makes it possible to take better account of the special status of Switzerland, which does not belong to the European Union. For people living in border regions, these health agreements must allow for legal clarification and better access to care. They call for more specific conventions to be put in place by local authorities to improve the health situation of each territory. In the long run, we expect these framework agreements to simplify the administrative procedures for care between our three countries, both for care agreements and for reimbursements; Optimize the organization of care provision by encouraging better management of material and human resources; and, finally, to develop the sharing of knowledge and practices between health actors in border areas. The cooperation of our countries in the field of health is particularly necessary, and these framework agreements are based on a view not of competition but of complementarity in the provision of care. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is through improved delivery, security and governance of health cooperation that our countries will be able to develop new opportunities in managing the provision of care and, finally, meet the expectations of our populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u59	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u60	We are now considering a much-anticipated bill. I am delighted about this, for our territory of Haute-Savoie. The examination of the text in the Committee on Foreign Affairs took place on 7 February 2018. You then decided to postpone his vote and propose a flash mission, the work of which was to last a few weeks. Finally, they lasted almost six months since it was on November 20, 2018 that we read the recommendations of Bruno Fuchs and Frédéric Barbier, who, for the most part, presented facts that we know well. Ensuring that all patients have access to quality care on both sides of the border, but also ensuring good working conditions for our health staff: these are the challenges of cross-border health policy. Since our living pool is common with Geneva, we have obviously chosen to rely on cooperation. Due to its economic and tourist dynamism, the Franco-Valdo-Genevo basin is experiencing a significant increase in its population. We welcome this, but it is also a challenge for public policies, particularly in the health field. Although it has good health facilities, the Haute-Savoie has been experiencing problems of medical demography for several years, including a shortage of general practitioners and specialists and a large turnover of health personnel, particularly in residential establishments for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – due to the attractiveness of Switzerland. The end of the health insurance option for border residents has also contributed to the increase in the supply deficit. On both sides of the border, particularly in the framework of the Health Committee of the Franco-Genevois Regional Committee, the elected representatives are therefore looking forward to the Franco-Swiss framework agreement on cross-border health cooperation, an operational tool to strengthen our synergies. It will promote the development of cross-border health cooperation by providing access to, and continuity of, quality care for populations who are habitually or temporarily resident in the border regions concerned, both for emergency and programmed care or those linked to chronic disease. It will arrange for reimbursement of those received without prior authorisation, the hospital care concerned being determined on the basis of the deficits and needs identified on both sides of the border in terms of the provision of care. It will also optimize the organization of care delivery by encouraging the sharing of capacities and the sharing of knowledge and practices between health workers in both countries. It will also encourage cooperation, for example in the field of paediatric oncology, by promoting access to knowledge and its mutualization, and, finally, will facilitate the use of certain tools, such as the hyperbaric box for drowning situations. The aim of this text is that our citizens will receive a concrete benefit by taking advantage of quality care as close as possible to their place of residence. I therefore welcome the agenda for this important text for our cross-border territory, which our group will vote for. However, as often happens, problems remain. Thus, despite the Government's commitment, the problem of disputes over the affiliation of frontier workers has not yet been fully resolved. We regularly work with the cross-border workers' associations that accompany them in time-consuming and exhausting approaches. However, the flash mission merely recommended "ensuring that the Government fulfils its commitments". How can this be achieved, and with what control tool? With regard to medical demography, we can also ask ourselves the question of the very high cost of living in our department, and consider the creation of a cost-of-living premium that would make it possible to retain civil servants. The department or region is trying to launch or support local initiatives in this direction, but the national level should also help us. In conclusion, this text establishes a legal framework that will be used to conclude local conventions on cross-border health cooperation. It will require strong political will on the part of local actors, like other structuring projects, particularly in the area of mobility. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Frédéric Barbier also applauds]] The commissioning of the Léman Express and the extension of the tramway to Annemasse are good examples of such a common will, at the service of the daily life of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u61	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u62	We are considering the draft law authorizing the approval of framework agreements on cross-border health cooperation between France and Switzerland, on the one hand, and between France and Luxembourg on the other. As previous speakers have indicated, this text has been the subject of very rich discussions in committee. It had certain shortcomings and raised many questions which were relayed, as early as 7 February 2018, by the rapporteur Bruno Fuchs. He then explained that these framework agreements seemed to him to be in a position to produce cross-border agreements that were useful to citizens and to our 360,000 frontier workers, who were 143,000 working in Switzerland and 700,000 working in Luxembourg. It had noted that the conventions could be subject to ministerial authorization, which would have a significant impact on their implementation. Moreover, the negotiation of local agreements would be entrusted to administrative institutions, the regional health agencies, which are the most qualified to judge needs on the ground. While only the framework agreement is subject to ratification, it is nevertheless necessary to ensure that it is sufficiently precise for the administration to take over. We are talking about an essential subject, which concerns nothing less than the health and health insurance of our fellow citizens. This is why cooperation with our neighbours is very important and needs to be sought, while it remains very limited to date for some of the reasons already mentioned: significant differences in living standards, wages and health costs, an increasing number of border workers residing in France and working in both countries, and difficulties arising from Switzerland's non-membership of the European Union. That had to be corrected. The commission, during the first discussion of this bill, concluded that it was not successful and that its application would be risky or even lead to inconsistencies. It therefore postponed its adoption to a later date, by entrusting a working group with the task of formulating proposals to make it acceptable. Its rapporteurs have thus submitted several recommendations to the committee which seem to us to be in the direction of greater efficiency. The question of the association of primary reference health insurance funds in each of the French regions concerned, the question of improving the information of the inhabitants and the question of association with the process of administrations and regional health agencies are essential elements. We welcome the willingness of the rapporteurs to bring politics back to the heart of these negotiations, above administrations and closer to the needs of our fellow citizens. At a time when the French rightly demand more proximity, local elected representatives must be trusted to help conclude agreements and conventions that respond to this demand. The political portage referred to in the report therefore seems to us to be absolutely inescapable. It is thanks to him that we will be able to ensure the interest of patients and beneficiaries of health insurance. We are therefore very sensitive to the proposals you are making for democratic governance of cross-border health cooperation: I am thinking in particular of setting up user commissions, health professionals and elected representatives from the territories concerned. This involvement of all the actors who live on a daily basis will enable us, I am sure, to find solutions and lead to sustainable initiatives. You refer to concerns that I fully share: reciprocity in co-construction of care provision, the establishment of shared diagnoses of priorities, and the question of the demographics of the medical and paramedical professions, which in fact exceeds the only cross-border framework. All these issues are indeed urgent concerns for our fellow citizens, so it is important to give us the effective means to respond to them. That is why the working group was beneficial and useful in order to give these agreements their full potential. It was important to ensure a clear legal scope of framework agreements in order to ensure continuity of care for people in border areas. The framework agreements submitted to us offer interesting opportunities for actors in cross-border areas, provided that the political power seizes them: this was the whole issue of this discussion. The current situation, from this point of view, is not satisfactory because it leaves a whole sector, health, totally deregulated: it is therefore necessary to support this type of agreement by hoping that in the future they can be defined more clearly. Our fellow citizens have a lot to gain from us being able to develop projects with our immediate – and trust – neighbours, Luxembourg and Switzerland. Our cooperation has so far fallen short of what it should be, particularly in the area of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u63	Well said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u64	This subject, as we see it every day, rightly interests our fellow citizens and we must respond to it in a pragmatic way. [[Mr. Frédéric Barbier applauds]] As things stand, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support this bill in response to a strong demand from the actors on the ground, who are waiting for its ratification to start negotiations with their partners. The recommendations made by the rapporteur support this choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u65	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u66	I'm a doctor. You will understand, therefore, that I fully support, necessarily, the opportunity offered by this bill. And I am also a doctor of dunkerquois, so cross-border, i.e. I know all these problems. Some things may seem more complicated than we can imagine, but I think the report settles a large part of them, starting with continuity of care. When you are sick on one side of a border, and when you are sick on the other, it is essential that there is a form of continuity of care. When one has a concern on one side of a border and is not necessarily equipped with a shared medical document, it is also important to have a good quality of care. Today with regard to Switzerland and Luxembourg, we are talking about exactly the same thing as the agreements we have concluded with Belgium, Spain...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u67	And Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u68	We speak of the same quality of care. For us borderers as for the people who travel – because we talk a lot about the first ones, but we must not forget all those who take their holidays in Germany, Switzerland or Belgium – it is not even conceivable that we do not vote on this bill. There are, however, a few minor concerns. You know them, Mr. Rapporteur. First of all, I am thinking of the medical demographics, that is to say, the attractiveness Switzerland can have. Everyone here knows that one of our colleagues, who is not present tonight, is a radiologist in Switzerland. It is more attractive to practice in Switzerland, and probably also in Luxembourg. As a result of medical demography, we must try to keep a set of doctors in our territory. On the contrary, the Luxembourgers, and I draw this reflection from the reading of your report, dear Bruno, are rather happy to come to France for treatment. Moreover, the trade balance between France and Luxembourg is in this area very positive for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u69	Yeah, and financially, that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u70	As far as Switzerland is concerned, our exchanges in this area are generally balanced. In short, these are extremely important issues. I consider this to be a very good agreement. We must pay close attention to the medical demographics, that is, we must not let our doctors go to Switzerland or Luxembourg because they make more money there. One of the very interesting points of the report is the investment of SRAs. It is indeed important that the ARS and their departmental delegations determine themselves in relation to all our common agreements. But this is not yet the case: it is not yet in the nature of things. That would therefore be a very good development. Another concern – the prefects, the officials of the state are very interested in this matter, and the report that was presented to us last night in the Committee on Foreign Affairs plays on this: one day or the other, even if I hope this will never happen, there could be a health crisis. We have recently experienced a swine crisis with Belgium, which has not affected humans, but other diseases, other viruses are dragging away. The logic would be that we have a real inter-border, international strategy to deal with such situations. It's in my opinion essential. Yesterday we talked about nuclear tests taking place in Switzerland: we might think, on the contrary, that our nuclear power plants are very close to Switzerland! Such a strategy seems absolutely indispensable to me. We would then enter into genuine health cooperation which I think is entirely legitimate. I end with little things, and maybe small people. A Swiss writer I like, Albert Cohen, said that old age is a death in small pieces. I, dunkerquois, have, like probably all the borderers, many of my former ones who live in Belgium. They left because the offer did not exist in France. We also have work to do on this issue. It would be great to recognize that we are not at the best level in France with regard to the reception of dependent elderly people. Belgians and Swiss are better than us. The Swiss are a little more expensive, but the Belgians are at the same level as us: so there is really something to do. [[Applause on all benches]] If I have a cry from the heart to push today, it is this one: in the health cooperation that we can lead with neighbouring countries, let us help our elders!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u71	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u72	Chair of the France-Switzerland friendship group, my remarks will focus on cross-border health cooperation between the Government of the French Republic and the Swiss Federal Council. When the outbreak of avian influenza, which it was necessary to fight at the source in order to avoid a pandemic, caused the first reflections on this agreement, was there any doubt that it would take more than ten years to reach the hemicycle? When, at the initiative of our President Marielle de Sarnez, the national representative felt it useful to set up a working group in order to continue our investigations into the ins and outs of this ratification and to make recommendations, was there any doubt that it would take ten months to adopt it calmly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs? When, as a member of a constituency bordering Switzerland, I asked the administrative and local actors on the French side, did I doubt the content of the exchanges that would result from it, namely that this agreement was not a priority, that the inventory of the specialisations of the establishments was unrealizable, that we had to make our infrastructures profitable, that the responsibility of some of them was of course the responsibility of others or that the Swiss lobbies had done their job well? Cultivating a certain idea of France, I confess that I was far from it, far away, in any case further than the few kilometres that separate us from the Swiss medical skills that we do not have access to today. Why so much reluctance on the French side? What does this agreement hide? Like any framework agreement, it defines legal contours. In this case, the Commission shall lay down a general framework for the conclusion of agreements on cross-border health cooperation, the potential area of which it shall determine and the territorial administrative authorities empowered to conclude them. Local actors from the nine Swiss border cantons and the Grand Est, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes regions will be able to take advantage of this in order to improve the care offered to the inhabitants and whatever their insurance scheme, place of residence and standard of living. The intentions are therefore clear. You recalled, Madam Secretary of State: to develop a dynamic of cross-border health cooperation, to make it live and to ensure better access to quality care for living areas around the border. What impact can this agreement have on the organisation of care for the inhabitants of a common living area? In the end, the whole issue is there: to produce positive effects on the daily lives of the citizens concerned. To answer this question, let us take the case of Haute-Savoie at random. The organisation of hospital health is at the same time singular and totally incoherent. For political reasons, it has two local hospital groups – GHT – of which one, the GHT Nord, does not have a remedy. The patient is therefore confronted with competing and non-complementary hospitals, while nearby there is a Swiss university hospital which could play the role of recourse institution and which offers state-of-the-art technologies and specializations. In this context, the framework agreement guarantees access to and follow-up to community care. The patient and the quality of care provided are at the heart of the health system and the administration, infrastructure and policy at its service. So, ten years or ten months, what does it matter today? The signing of the international agreement dates back to 2016. Switzerland ratified it in 2017. Let's make 2019 the year of its implementation! This "perfect agreement", provided that its provisions are followed with effect, comes into line with the motto of the binational village of Saint-Gingolph, a commune divided in two by history, which will celebrate the next June 30 450 years of Franco-Swiss friendship – Valais-Savoyard, for purists! [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Christian Hutin also applauds]] In honour of the good understanding between neighbours, you are invited, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, in order to celebrate the framework agreement, which I encourage you to ratify, like all those to come or to revise, in particular the Convention of 27 February 1882 for the connection of the railway line from Thonon to Bouveret via Saint-Gingolph!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u73	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u74	My remarks will be focused, and this will not surprise anyone, on the Haute-Savoie, and more particularly on its northern part, where 80% of its borderers live, making it the first border area with Switzerland. The agreement we are looking at will have to reinforce and not call into question what has been achieved for several years, in the field of public health, in the French part. It will have to promote complementarities and not create competition, as has already been mentioned. Everything that has been achieved in this part of the territory has been done in a transparent manner, in collaboration with and with the agreement of the regional hospital agencies created by the Ordinance of 24 April 1996 and, since 2010, by the regional health agency. In those territories, very important efforts had been made, and painful decisions had been taken. Listen to me. Two hospitals, in Sallanches and Chamonix: there is only one, stronger, in Sallanches. Two hospitals, one in Annemasse and the other in Bonneville: they are now one, brand new, the Alpes Léman hospital centre. Two hospitals, in Saint-Julien-en-Genevois and Annecy: now a single establishment, always on two sites, stronger than the old ones. Two hospitals, in Evian and Thonon: grouped within the Hospitals du Léman. The private sector is not left behind. There were two clinics, one in Thonon and the other in Annemasse, which were grouped into one site, stronger, at Annemasse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u75	Very nice clinic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u76	We have not forgotten mental health. We reconstructed the public mental health facility at La Roche-sur-Foron, which is the department's referral hospital. It is now approaching, always in full transparency and with the agreement of the ARS, the hospitals of Geneva. All of this has been done for the benefit of patients, families and staff, trying to maintain the balance between proximity and quality of care, on the one hand, and the speed of medical response throughout the course of care, on the other. To this end, we have made many investments, to finance construction, reconstruction and modernization programmes, for post-care and rehabilitation facilities, EHPAD and specialized institutions, by organizing them around technical platforms. Saint-Julien-en-Genevois, La Roche-sur-Foron, the agglomeration of Annemasse, Thonon-les-Bains, Reignier, La Tour, Sallanches, Bonneville: all these communes have seen the emergence of new health facilities, or restructured around technical plateaus. In the French part, we have also – the specialized press has just greeted him – reached a unique collective maturity on French soil. Thanks to the contribution of two public hospitals, Challes-les-Eaux and Sallanches, we are rebuilding an offer of care in the Cluses area, always in full transparency with the mayor and the director of the ARS. In addition, we have also a unique financial solidarity, since the support institution of the GHT Léman-Mont-Blanc, located in the north of the department, finances two other hospitals. Indeed, we voted for a €2.8 million loan to help Sallanches, and we have just voted for one €15 million for the hospitals in Geneva. All this benefits, everyone will have understood, to the medical project, that of the GHT Léman-Mont-Blanc. There has been a lot of talk about border crossings, but I would like to pay tribute to the 5,000 people, the 500 doctors who work in these public health facilities in the north of the department and who deal with 130,000 emergency calls every year, 90,000 hospital stays and 5,000 births. In this territory, eight out of ten hospitalized patients are hospitalized in public institutions. Our medical project is shared by all, including the link between city medicine and hospital, the care of the elderly, telemedicine and the role of the inter-hospital federation of emergencies. For example, emergency doctors are involved in hospitals other than those where they are assigned when we are in troubleshooting situations. We are also developing a cancer project. Why tell you all this, ladies and gentlemen? Because Haute-Savoie is the first border department in France. We have the particularity of having 850,000 permanent inhabitants and 850,000 tourist beds. The population variation we know between summer and winter is therefore, Var except, without equivalent in our country. Finally, while the proximity to Geneva is an opportunity, it also gives rise to intense competition. The attractiveness of Geneva is strong, not only for working conditions, but also because we earn twice as much by working on the other side of the border as by staying on French soil! We're cooperating. The GHT Léman-Mont-Blanc has Annecy's hospital as its referral. In addition, we benefit from two CHUs – university hospital centres – of recourse, that of Grenoble and that of Lyon, with which we have signed agreements, validated by the Republic through the ARS. Of course, we hope that health cooperation with Switzerland will continue. We hope that the University Hospitals in Geneva will be a remedy. However, we hope that this will be done in full transparency and complementarity with all that has been achieved for the last 23 years on French soil, in full transparency with the French Republic. [[Mr. Frédéric Barbier applauds]] Finally, we hope that between the director of the ARS, on the one hand, and the Hospitals and the Council of State of Geneva, on the other hand, the GHT Léman-Mont-Blanc will have its full place. Since the Republic has asked us to organize ourselves in the GHT, it must be at the heart of the debates, in order to ensure that everything that will be decided will be very complementary to what has already been achieved, in the interests of our permanent inhabitants, our tourists and our borderers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u77	My dear colleague, you have defended your constituency very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u78	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u79	Cross-border areas are places of life. As the Secretary of State pointed out, they are communities of collective life. These are areas where the European project develops and lives on a daily basis. Cross-border cooperation is a necessity for our citizens. Today we are considering Bill No. 390 authorizing the approval of the framework agreement on cross-border health cooperation between the Government of the French Republic and the Swiss Federal Council and the framework agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on cross-border health cooperation. It was tabled on the Bureau of the National Assembly on 22 November 2017, and referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which first examined it on 7 February 2018. At the outset, I indicated how much the health cooperation agreement with Luxembourg is expected in Moselle, and more broadly in the north of Lorrain. Reciprocity in the provision of care and patient practices justify a genuine co-development approach with our neighbours. As the bill has raised questions in our committee, more on the Swiss side than on Luxembourg, we have asked for a working group, of which I have been a member, to be set up in order to hold additional hearings. I suggested that we audition several personalities, including the Executive Director of the Metz-Thionville Regional Hospital. The report bringing together the conclusions of the working group was presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 20 November by our colleague from the Doubs, Frédéric Barbier. Forming a series of concrete recommendations for the effective implementation of cross-border health co-operations, it allowed the passage of the bill that we are considering today in public session, which will lead to the long-awaited entry into force of the two framework agreements. The aim is to strengthen the continuity of care on both sides of the border, by ensuring that patients in the border area are covered regardless of the side of the border where they are treated, be it emergency care or the treatment of heavy clinical pathologies. Building on the experience of cross-border health cooperation with Belgium, Germany and Spain, these framework agreements have been requested by local actors. They aim to establish a legal framework for the establishment of local conventions on cross-border health cooperation. Their aim is to promote the development of such cooperation and to improve access to quality care for the living areas bordering the border, by organizing automatic reimbursement of care, by ensuring continuity of care and the earliest possible use of emergency relief, and by promoting the sharing of knowledge, practices, human resources and equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk to you in particular about the agreement signed with Luxembourg on the border area between the French region of the Grand East and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Anyone who is covered by a French or Luxembourg insurance scheme, temporarily residing or staying in that territory, shall be eligible, as well as any person who requires urgent care and who is affiliated with a social security scheme falling within the scope of the European Union Coordination Regulation. All healthcare professionals working in the border area are also covered by the framework agreement. Signed on 21 November 2016, it was ratified by Luxembourg on 18 July 2018 by a law published in the Official Journal of 19 July. Under the principle of reciprocity, it cannot enter into force until France in turn has ratified it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Therefore, it is now time for us to pass this bill in order to finalize the ratification procedure. This will enable our two friendly countries to cooperate locally, more effectively, in the field of health. We'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u80	On the bill as a whole, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u81	The subject is important!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u82	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u83	Our territories are increasingly faced with the deployment of inadequate care to meet the needs of our fellow citizens. Locally, elected officials are mobilizing to try to remedy this, and initiatives are emerging, like health homes, which are growing more and more. It is essential to develop cooperation and complementarities in the provision of care. This is true at the territorial level, in our country, but also in the context of our relations with the States with which we share a border. While framework agreements on cross-border health cooperation have already been signed with several of our neighbours, including Germany, Belgium and Spain, there is nothing like this between France and two other neighbouring states, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Consequently, cooperation with them in the field of health is limited. Apart from the absence of a framework agreement, this situation also stems from certain specificities, identified by the working group set up by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on cross-border health cooperation with Switzerland and Luxembourg: these are mainly the considerable differences between these two countries and France in terms of standard of living, wages and health costs. The Liberties and Territories Group welcomes the method that led to the consideration of this bill by our House. I welcome the excellent rapporteur for this text, who, I am sure, will be unanimous. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, through the rapporteur, expressed doubts about the actual legal scope of the framework agreements and the effectiveness of their practical application. That is why we have decided to adjourn the vote on the bill and to set up a working group, whose conclusions, I hope, will shed some light on our discussions. It was essential to move forward on health cooperation with Switzerland and Luxembourg, but not just how. This must be done with responsibility and foresight, bearing in mind the consequences that such framework agreements can have for our citizens as well as for local initiatives on the provision of care that exist or are under development in our territories. Every day, 143,000 French will work in Switzerland, and 700,000 in Luxembourg. On the basis of this finding, and on the basis of cooperation already existing at local level between some of our regions and Switzerland or Luxembourg, France has decided to propose to these two neighbouring States a clearer legal framework, through an international agreement. Of course, our national law already allows hospitals to conclude cooperation agreements without the need for such an agreement. It is also true that a general European framework exists. It is based on the free movement of persons and the freedom to provide services, which also applies to health care. This European framework is based on two regulations of 2004 and 2009, and on the 2011 Health Directive, which follows a case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 1998 imposing several rights on European citizens, such as the right to reimbursement of care received by an insured person in a country other than his own. However, not everything goes for the best in the best of the worlds. Our relations with Switzerland in this area are a source of complexity, since it is not a Member State of the European Union, it does not belong to the European Economic Area and it has a federal character. This structure implies that legitimacy goes back from the municipalities to the federal state, via the cantons, where the principle of subsidiarity is required. In the field of health, this leads to a division of powers different from that prevailing in France, a State which is insufficiently decentralized. All this means that cooperation with Switzerland can only be achieved through the signature of specific bilateral agreements. However, this bill proposes the approval of two similar framework agreements for Switzerland and Luxembourg. A question may therefore arise at this stage: is it relevant to sign two similar framework agreements with differently structured States, whose rules on health organisation are different? Does not cross-border health cooperation with Switzerland require a more specific framework agreement, which would allow local cooperation to develop fully? Moreover, the Swiss equivalent of this bill underscores the questionable normative scope of these framework agreements and their practical scope more than unceremonious. Of course, we all know that these framework agreements are intended only to establish an architecture in which local cross-border cooperation can develop, in order to meet the needs expressed by the people of the border living areas, while making it possible to manage the provision of care more rationally. Local, elected and administrative actors will give life to the various initiatives in this area. The framework agreements and the two implementing texts accompanying them should therefore constitute a kind of guide to clarify the legal framework and to clarify the content of local cooperation agreements. The Libertés et Territoires Group, which is a tireless voice for the territories, welcomes the signing of framework agreements that will facilitate the conclusion of local cooperation agreements in order to derogate from certain rules of common law in the field of cross-border care. I am thinking in particular of the prior authorisations, or the application of the tariffs provided for in the European social security coordination texts, among others. We must trust the intelligence of the territories, their ability to meet the needs of the inhabitants and to provide innovative and effective solutions. Enclosing them in rules that are too restrictive and uniform can only lead to an impasse that would aggravate medical desertification, a chronic evil facing which the State seems to be disarmed. Our group therefore supports the Working Group's proposal to make cross-border health cooperation one of the areas of the right to experiment, in accordance with Article 72 of our Constitution. However, we believe that further steps should be taken on this path of differentiation, particularly in the context of future constitutional reform. We know that this can happen because our French Republic is one of the most centralized in the world, so that the differentiation of certain territories, or their desire for autonomy, seems to be incompatible with the indivisibility of the Republic. But our European neighbours, which have all adopted, to varying degrees, a federal system or a system of regional autonomy, show us that they are not contradictory with national unity, and can even be extremely effective within a republic also described by their constitutions as "indivisible". For the Libertés et territoires group, differentiation is the future of our territories and of France, but in the sense of adapting national standards. We will not fail to open this debate during the reform of the institutions. Our group will be a force for proposals to enable local and regional authorities to fully exercise their powers, thanks to the capacity given to elected representatives to adapt national standards, in order to innovate and act effectively in the light of the realities of the territories and the needs of the population. But without waiting for the review of this constitutional reform, our group has just made fifty proposals to make the Territories stronger and more autonomous. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With regard to the framework agreements that we must approve today, if our debate demonstrates that they will have a real legal scope and will enable local health cooperation to be put into practice in practice and effectively, our group will be in favour of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u85	The general discussion is closed. Madam Secretary of State, you wish to respond, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u86	Thank you, Mr President, a little interaction does not seem to me unnecessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u87	Thank you, ma'am, it's not always that obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u88	Without this, such a text can quickly give the impression of being completely unrelated to the work that is yours. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work of the parliamentarians who led the reflection – Marielle de Sarnez gave me the list – and that of the parliamentarians who joined the work to represent the specifics of a territory. There is, I think, an example of useful work, which feeds on the ground, and which addresses the complexities that make it difficult for French and European citizens to live on a daily basis. I also welcome the intention announced by Marielle de Sarnez to transform this working group into a follow-up group. You will not be surprised: it is, I think, a very good thing to evaluate the proposals, in order to ensure that the spirit of the law is applied well and that, in reality, on the ground, people living on the Swiss or Luxembourg border are more easily able to obtain treatment or consult quality doctors. I would like to add that there is a possible way forward to deal with other cross-border issues. This method, which starts from the ground, makes it possible to identify very concrete solutions, without far-reaching budgetary costs or tedious treaties to sign. That is what Europe must be, for me: an area for the practical facilitation of each other's projects and their daily lives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would therefore like to commend your work and encourage you to formulate in the same spirit new proposals for cross-border projects, which could move forward in this way. Our teams at the Orsay wharf count, as I have pointed out, an ambassador on cross-border issues who will be able to continue your work, if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u89	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u90	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 29 Number of votes cast 29 Absolute majority 15 For adoption 29 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1247.u91	Next sitting, Monday, May 27, 2019, at 16:00: Discussion of the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The meeting is adjourned.
