ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to transform the civil service (No. 1802, 1924).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u2	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u3	Once again, the Government comes to us with a slightly snoring title: "Transformation de la fonction publique" – just that! And, once again, we have the feeling, after reading the provisions of this text, of some kind of tartarinade. For us, there is only one question: how can public spending be reduced while maintaining a quality public service, perhaps more equitable, at the service of the French? Your text does not provide an initial answer to this question. First, it does not propose any systemic reform of the public service. He did not question the missions, those of such importance that they must be governed by the status of civil servants, and those, more common, closer to the private sector, which could be carried out under a contractual arrangement. However, this mission-based approach is not impossible. Other countries have adopted it. In Italy, for example, reforms in the 1990s have radically changed the system in force. The majority of public officials are now subject to the common labour law, with the exception of magistrates, military personnel, police officers, diplomats, members of the prefectural corps and academics. The working life of other employees is governed by specific collective agreements. I am not saying that this is the model, I am saying that this is a real transformation. More recently, in Portugal, a law in 2007 brought the status of civil servants into line with the common labour law, with the exception, again, of officials responsible for legal functions. The pension scheme for civil servants has been aligned with that of other employees: this is also a real reform, Mr Secretary of State. In Germany, a reform gave the Länder competence in 2006 for the management and remuneration of the civil servants they employ. Each of them negotiates its collective agreement. We are still in the process of legislating, in this House, to determine the status of the agents of the municipal library in Annonay, for example. I greet them by the way, but why not trust the mayor of Annonay?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u4	He's very good.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u5	I stop benchmarking: my examples are enough to measure the little reformative ambition of your bill. I read this morning in the press: "Members are attacking the status of civil servants". Diantre! You have, Mr. Secretary of State, a very good press officer! In fact, you're attacking CAPs – Joint Administrative Boards: that's pretty much all. No reflection on the missions, no reflection on a statutory simplification either: the white paper on the future of the civil service submitted in 2008 by Jean-Ludovic Silicani advocated the establishment of a civil service of trades, through the replacement of some 500 bodies by about 50. Finally, this trades logic could really facilitate mobility between departments, as between the three sides of the public service. However, your text does not foresee any changes on this point. You certainly make it easier for you to go back and forth with the private sector; Tomorrow, however, it will always be as complicated, if not impossible, to move from one public service to another – there is almost no provision in the text on the subject – or from one ministry to another, or even, within the same ministry, from one region to another, since there will be no CAP. Despite the few hours we spent together in the Law Committee, I have still not understood which body would replace the CAPs on deployments. There is also no provision for working time in your text. Ah if: you courageously decide, twenty years later – it would seem to be in Hibernatus – to apply the Aubry law, while the real subject of working time should be that of a return to 39 hours, after of course having defined the conditions and in the concertation. I would like to remind you that returning from 35 to 39 hours in the civil service would save 400,000 posts and 10 billion euros. In the German civil service, the weekly working time is 41 hours. I concede: this is a much more difficult project than the one you attacked. However, the first victims of your lack of courage are the civil servants themselves, whose purchasing power – a study by the Institut Montaigne recently revealed this – has been reduced by 10% in ten years: the subject on which you are, we are totally unable to formulate proposals for short- or medium-term evolution. I am thinking in particular of the agents in category C, whose compensatory schemes are generally the most modest and do not make it possible to compensate for the freezing of the point of index: it is also, Mr Secretary of State, one of the messages sent by the yellow vests in the crisis that we have just passed through. For this reason, we propose that you consider a temporary mechanism allowing for a differentiated evolution of the index point, opening up to a catch-up of categories C and B without aggravating the public burden. More generally, while you have already renounced the reduction of the 120,000 public service jobs announced by Emmanuel Macron during his campaign,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u6	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u7	... you do not foresee in this text any measures to reduce public expenditure, which should be the first objective of any reform in this area. Public operating expenditure is, I would remind you, 18% of GDP in our country. On the contrary, the increased use of contract agents, particularly on executive jobs as you propose, will mechanically have an inflationary effect and will further increase the cost of the public service in our country. You also do not deal with the issue of the highest salaries in the public service. I was surprised in the Law Committee that 700,000 civil servants in the State civil service alone are paid off the letter scale, i.e., including bonuses, more than 5000 net euros per month. The worst is that this figure was only 25,000 in 1985, i.e. before decentralization. Since decentralization, the number of civil servants paid off-line has increased from 25,000 to 700,000! I calculated approximately that if they were to be reduced by 10%, a saving of EUR 1 billion would be achieved. This would be a new approach to reducing public spending, while we always tap at the end of the chain, where the French most need local public services. I confess that I was surprised, Mr Secretary of State, by the figure you gave us in the Committee on Laws: the average remuneration of civil servants belonging to the last percentile – the best paid – would be 9500 euros per month. You will have to tell us the basis you take to calculate this percentile: indeed, if it corresponds to the 2.4 million civilian civil servants, that is a lot of people! These figures are, in my view, quite surprising. In fact, your text is limited to two developments: facilitating the use of the contract and emptying CAPs of their content. And on these two developments, it provides so little precise guarantees that you have succeeded in putting all the representative organizations behind you during the senior councils of the public service. With regard to the use of the contract, it is certainly not the big night: you simply add derogation to the principle of recruitment under statute. There are already five cases of derogation from the statute: you add three. These prospects, I recognize, are quite good to take: the contract is a tool of flexibility, appreciated by public employers. They do, however, pose problems to which your text does not provide a solution. Thus, article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights proclaims "equal access to public employment". The competition ensures that this principle is respected. In concrete terms, how will this equal access be ensured under a system which aims to normalize the use of the contract on the one hand and on the other? The fact that you are content to copy in the law this principle already enshrined in the constitutionality block seems to me somewhat superfétoire, Secretary of State. The law should, as provided for in article 34 of the Constitution, lay down rules to ensure that this principle is respected. At this point, you are not doing so, and it seems to me that our assembly will be in "negative incompetence" to use the terminology used by the Constitutional Council. The use of project contracts, which you create in Article 8, if it probably corresponds to a need for highly technical managerial functions or functions, is clearly not appropriate for the recruitment of category C personnel. Finally, you will only add to the precariousness, as you claim to fight it elsewhere. I note that the Government is, moreover, in complete contradiction: it proposes to the social partners, in the private sector, to penalise the use of CSDs, but facilitates the use of the same short contracts in the public sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u8	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u9	Finally, the cases of opening the contract that you add may lead to a lack of attractiveness of public service competitions to young people. I am thinking in particular of the management positions in the local authorities, which are now the prerogative of the winners of the engineering or attaché competition, with the exception of the so-called functional jobs. These posts will now be open to the contract. What interest will young people have in preparing these competitions if they find themselves in competition with contract agents a few years later? Finally, you do not change the duality between contractual and statutory. Worse, you're aggravating the duality between CDI and CDD. We will propose to you during the discussion an amendment aimed at experimenting in the hospital public service, which is probably the one which would most need to consider new ways of cooperation with the private sector, the single contract for hiring with progressive rights, as the Nobel Prize for Economics Jean Tirole has theorized. It is the vocation of the public authorities to imagine and experiment with solutions, before proposing them, where appropriate, to the social partners in the private sector. Again, your project seems to us to be very unreformist. You are also reducing the role of CAPs as the skin of grief, as they will no longer be competent for mobility or promotion. Where does this request come from? I still don't understand. Instead, associations of elected employers seem to consider CAP a useful place, which guarantees fair consideration of the situation of each agent in local authorities: it is a management tool for building social peace in a community. I understand that in some ministries, particularly in the area of national education, the CAP system may seem very cumbersome. However, advancements can be deconcentrated. Sometimes they are, and we can probably go further. The radical step you are planning to take raises concerns that your text does not address. What guarantees will you provide to teachers or police officers? What rules of fairness? I am thinking in particular of changes from one region to another. It is a subject which is very worrying and on which I do not find, for the moment, an answer in your text. I read well that guidelines would be drawn up: I admit, however, that I remained on my hunger, including, Mr Secretary of State, at the end of our debate on the subject in committee. I really hope that our debate will shed some light on our fellow citizens. The risk of arbitrariness exists more in the public service than elsewhere, because the lack of cost-effectiveness criteria sometimes leads to management decisions that are not always rational. There are also risks associated with political alternations. Care must be taken to ensure fairness for the most exposed public servants. Your text also does not provide any answers on this point. I note that, in its opinion, the Council of State warns you of the risk of impoverishment of social dialogue. Basically, it would be a shame to break something that just works to solve the problem of national education. One thing we are still satisfied with in this text is that of the ethics of the senior public service and the management of conflicts of interest. The group The Republicans, along with others, has been working on the subject for the past two years. We were moved, in July 2017, that the text of moralizing public life limits its ambitions to the moralization of political life, without looking at the issue of preventing conflicts of interest in the high public service, where inter-self is a real subject – we all have examples in mind. Together with my colleague Fabien Matras, we made a number of proposals in a January 2018 report, the two main ones being the integration of the Public Service Ethics Commission into the High Authority for the transparency of public life and the publicity of the opinions which the High Authority would have to issue in situations of slippage. These proposals were adopted unanimously by the Law Committee. I am pleased that the rapporteur has been willing to include the most important of them in this bill. I hope that, thanks to the listening of the rapporteur and the majority, we will be able to find, on these matters, the unanimity which had hosted our report in the Committee on Laws. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] As such, Secretary of State, the Government would always benefit from listening to the opposition. It is a pity that you did not do it any more, because the rest of the bill did not convince us. This text creates more uncertainty than it does reform. That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u10	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, the Republicans have a request for a public vote before me. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u11	No one will be surprised, the Government is against this motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Marleix, I do not hide from you that his tabling surprised me, because the debates in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure had allowed us to move forward and allowed for a calm discussion, which could be completed without being interrupted by the possible adoption of such a motion. In fact, there are no real arguments justifying this adoption: you have referred to disagreements with certain provisions which, in my view, do not justify a motion to reject beforehand. Above all, I note a kind of contradiction in your remarks. You blame us for not sufficiently attacking our status and for not moving in the direction taken by some countries, which have clearly drawn up a list of functions that would fall within the scope of the private sector and those that would fall within the scope of the public sector. We have indeed chosen to maintain the status and Article 3, which lays down the principle of permanent employment by incumbents, which is one of our points of disagreement. Even though you blame us for not liberalizing the public service as you would like to do, at the same time you blame us for calling into question the organization of certain procedures and bodies very specific to the French public service, of which we know they are cumbersome and whose reform will allow us to move a little faster. The second point that bothers me in your argument concerns the absolute priority given to the issue of public expenditure. This is not an accounting reform: we want to improve human resources management and the public service. In the motion, you did not answer the question I asked you in the law committee, but you were a little clearer: when the LR group proposes that French officials go from 35 to 39 hours, is it 39 hours paid 35, or 39 hours paid 39? In committee, you replied that this was a matter of social dialogue. You said at the moment that this was an extremely complicated project and that it could save around EUR 10 billion. I therefore take it that you propose that French civil servants and public servants work 39 hours paid 35. I am not convinced that this is in the direction of history, of progress, or of the expectations of trade union organisations. For these two reasons, the Government is against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u12	Mrs Emilie Chalas, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u13	I find this motion rather hard. We may have different political views, but I am deeply embarrassed by your approach. First, it is an almost exclusively accounting approach. You are talking about a public deficit, echoing your presidential candidate's proposal to remove 500,000 civil servants. You are calling for an extreme reduction in the scope of statutory public service, while the whole issue of the statute is to preserve the neutrality, competence and integrity of agents. I am all the more surprised to hear you speak as well as you know these subjects very well. You refer to the inadequacy of working time and the need to increase from 35 to 39 hours, unlike other French. I'm surprised! In fact, you are opposed to contract and civil servants, the private sphere and the public sphere. I regret it: we are opposed to this cleavage. This approach, which has prevailed for a good ten years, contributes to the "bashing official", with its hard-to-read implication. Public servants are the conviction, the commitment, the proximity, the daily life for all French people. Rather, our approach is to trust public officials and employers in their recruitment choices, to allow the possibility of choosing one's professional destiny, to bring together the public sphere and the private sphere around work, rather than to divide. Finally, our approach is increased support, recognition of precariousness, creation of management tools, training, recognition of the expectations of local elected officials. Ultimately, our approach is to adapt to the evolution of our society, which we believe is far more human than what you propose in your motion. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u14	In explanation of vote on the motion, the floor is Ms. Laurence Vichnievsky.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u15	Almost everything has been said, so I also want to express my surprise. I had no idea that our excellent colleague Olivier Marleix, a public service specialist, would today table a motion of rejection in advance, because I remember our debates in committee, which were extremely calm and constructive. We must acknowledge that the Secretary of State has brought us and has given you, Mr Marleix, many answers. Moreover, some of your arguments may be seen as arguments in favour of this text, not in favour of a motion to reject it. Of course, the choice has been made not to touch the status of the public service, and this may be your main reproach. The text intends to adapt it and to make it evolve in the light of our cultural change and the evolution of professional paths. You had a lot to bring here. You then developed arguments on CAPs and contracting. However, you know as we do that 80-90% of CAP decisions are without comment. It is therefore more appropriate to reserve the work of this body to cases which present difficulties, and that is the meaning of the Government's text. As far as contracting is concerned, which is one of the main subjects of this text, you have advocated flexibility. It's a tool we all need. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, we drew heavily on the report that you and Fabien Matras have written to work in an effective and highly transparant manner on ethics. Your arguments are therefore more in favour of this text. The MODEM Group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u16	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u17	The adoption of the motion for a preliminary rejection would lead to the rejection of the entire text, and we do not wish to do so, in particular because the debate in committee has indeed proved very constructive. Nevertheless, the IDU, Agir and Independent Group joins Olivier Marleix's criticism: the Government has made no clear choices about the future of the civil service. At this stage, we do not answer the following question: Should the public service of tomorrow be a civil service of status, which is snacked on all sides by the use of the contract, as provided for in the text? Because the provisions in question contradict, in a certain way, the objective of the Government, which is to affirm the permanence of the statute: you propose in fact, including for permanent jobs, to resort to the contract. It's going against the logic of status. From our point of view, there is a problem of method. It would have taken a very clear debate, first with representative trade union organisations, then with the French, through a public debate, finally in Parliament, to know what jobs could tomorrow, given the evolution of the civil service, the missions, the constraints, including budgetary constraints, the state and the local authorities, be filled out of status. Protection, neutrality and secularism are protected and guaranteed by the statute, but they do not apply in the same way to a gardener in a territorial community, to a stretcher in the hospital or to a worker in certain State services. Today, the text does not clearly present this debate and its solutions. This is our point of convergence with the Republican Group, but we do not support the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u18	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u19	Madam rapporteur, you have said that the motion to reject before bothers you, but I return the compliment to you: I too am embarrassed or even bothered. Mr Secretary of State, you say that civil servants are waiting for this text; I must therefore misunderstand the current situation. The emergency department of the Bordeaux hospital is the thirty-second to strike: is it because the staff are waiting for this text with too much impatience? Did the teachers of the Red Pens movement go on strike to speed up the adoption of this text? Are all the other officials who went on strike looking forward to seeing this bill arrive? I don't think so. It almost looks like you think we're fools, because when we talk to these public servants about everyday life, we understand that's really not what they're waiting for. In general, civil servants work for the State, for others; They are waiting to be able to render a real public service to others, and certainly not a diminished public service, as you propose with this text. When I meet public servants in the hospital service, everywhere on strike – I have often mentioned my healthcare colleagues here, but we should also mention the technical services officers – they are waiting for additional resources, human and financial means to end institutional abuse. When I hear the territorial agents – the staff of the crèches will go on strike because we will now ask a person to take care of ten babies –, strangely, they do not tell me to wait for this text with impatience; They remind us that they are being asked more and more with less and that their work simply becomes impossible. As for the officials of the State civil service, one thinks of the police officers, exhausted after all these weekends... You will answer that it is the fault of the yellow vests, except that if the police were in sufficient number, they would organize bearings through which they could rest. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I am therefore, too, embarrassed, and that is why we will vote in favour of the motion for a preliminary rejection defended by Mr Marleix.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u20	Bravo! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u21	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u22	I listened carefully to Olivier Marleix. There are many of his positions that I do not share, but I agree with his emphasis on the purchasing power of public servants, which is not mentioned in the bill. A 10% reduction in ten years, however, is considerable! If, in addition to declining purchasing power and a very low wage, the public service creates a disadvantage of status and therefore of employment, it is indeed a double penalty that may be reserved for them. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Most importantly, if I do not vote in favour of Olivier Marleix's remarks, I will vote unreservedly in favour of a motion to reject this bill. Of course, the text did not address the status of the civil service, as was feared when reading the CAP22 report: there was clearly a decline in the country's dissatisfaction with the public service's concerns, in the face of the unanimous rejection of the text by trade union organizations. However, as regards the basis of the civil service, namely its status, with what it implies of probity, of guarantee of secularism – while other countries have broken this status in order to apply to the civil service the revenues of the private sector – the text is pernicious in that it opens massively the recruitment of contractors. Indeed, it obliquely attacks the status in question by playing on the duration, on its extinction at the end of a progressive erasure. We have seen the process at France Télécom, to talk about recent news. This was also known in public housing organizations with moderate rents, whose change of status made it impossible to recruit public servants, since only private-law personnel could be hired. As a result, the status of civil servant in whole sections of public service missions is gradually being extinguished. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] That is why the deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left are radically opposed to the bill. If we had had the opportunity, we would have tabled a motion to reject it beforehand; But it turns out that it was the members of the LR Group. To sum up: we will not vote in favour of their words, but of their motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u23	Excellent synthesis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u24	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u25	Many of our colleagues in the Libertés et territoires group and I consider the Public Service Transformation Bill to be a danger to the future of public services. Despite the apparent step backwards of the President of the Republic on the announced abolition of 120,000 civil servants, we are not fooled: the text de facto defines the framework for a reduction in the number of civil servants in the short term. Under the guise of more mobility, between the three public functions but also with the private sector, you press public officials with managerial mechanisms from the private sector that do not match, which do not adapt to the spirit of public service. The Government promised to improve working conditions and enhance professional commitment, but it would be different if the text were adopted. The reality of civil service personnel will be punctuated by restructuring, privatisation of services, and will be governed by statutory rules that are less protective of the collective and individual rights of civil servants, less protective of their independence. While the territories need the return of public services, which our fellow citizens expect more and better from the State and local authorities, the Government is organizing the relocation of public services and the impoverishment of civil servants. That is why several Members of my group and I will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, even though not all of our reasons coincide with those of the LR Group. We believe that, through this text, you will weaken the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u26	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u27	Mr Marleix, like Laurence Vichnievsky, I was quite surprised by the tabling of a motion for a preliminary rejection which does not reflect the reflections we have been able to exchange in committee or elsewhere, nor the progress we have made during the examination of the text in committee and which you have stressed yourself, particularly with regard to the development of a culture of ethics throughout the country. Is this motion likely to allow you to present the vision of the party again? The Republicans of the evolution of the public service, a vision with which we strongly disagree, a liberal vision whereby, in a way, you assume the desire to end the status of the public service with the removal of hundreds of thousands of public servants, the drastic increase in working time to bring it to 39 hours per week. You do not seem to take into account the expectations of public servants, whether they are incumbents or contractors, or employers. You go over all the advances that the text allows and that are expected on the ground and that we, we hear when we talk with the agents, that it is the social dialogue, which they believe should be more focused on strategic issues than on individual issues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u28	So we don't hear the same thing...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u29	...that it is the opening of more positions to contract workers to respond to the challenges of attractiveness and responsiveness, so that employers can recruit rare, specific skills, to respond to issues of mobility, vocational training, to respond to issues of occupational equality, to respond to ethical issues... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text can certainly be adapted, and we have been working on it since the examination in committee, which lasted more than 18 hours and during which we have indeed made improvements, the rapporteur pointed out just now, on the framework for determining the remuneration of contract workers, on the issue of ethics, by merging the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – HATVP – and the Commission on the Ethics of the Public Service, improvements in the area of equality between women and men, or on the transparency of remuneration. We will be able to bring in more during the discussion of the text in open session. That is why the Members of the Group of the European People's Party will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u30	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u31	It is true that, for the past two years, we have been accustomed to your arguments, rather poor – a hollow verbiage – when it comes to criticizing the opposition. You are critical of Olivier Marleix's intervention, Secretary of State, rapporteur, but you are wrong to doubt our knowledge of the public service. We all come from the public service on our benches. You mentioned employers, elected officials; Well, we're all former local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u32	Not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u33	Not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u34	This allows you to measure the emptiness of your explanations. Besides, if you were attentive to what the oppositions say, you would realize that, despite our differences, we are telling you: be careful, this text is a missed date. That's clear; That's what we think. Olivier Marleix has shown your renunciation of truly reforming the public service. It is a small text, which does not meet the expectations of officials or even those of users. I note, moreover, that the latter do not appear in any way in the text: at no time does the question arise as to what their expectations are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u35	That's very true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u36	As Olivier Marleix pointed out, you do not offer any prospect of reducing public spending, which is boring at a time when it is a crucial issue. [[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As far as I am concerned, I feel more and more badly your ways of doing things, such as asking us for an explanation of François Fillon's project. We should stop wanting to repeat the 2017 presidential election. It is you who are the majority today, who are in the Government, so you are the one who is proposing texts and we are the one who are critical of you. It is unacceptable to return systematically to previous episodes. It is your text and you would be wise to listen a little to the criticisms of the oppositions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u37	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u38	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 72 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 20 Against 47
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u39	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u40	In the text you are submitting for our review, you state your claim to transform the public service, Secretary of State. In fact, it is a tangle of technical provisions which are simply technocratic adjustments which, at best, transform the role of trade unions in the civil service. We're tired of your maneuvers. For almost two years, the scenario has been invariable: you practice a political bougism whose gesticulations revolve around the triptych "accelerated examination- prescriptions-advertising effects to make the extremes scream". Unfortunately, these political ploys entangle the country in an outburst or even engage it in a regression as much as its possibilities of recovery are encumbered by the weakness of your political credit, damaged until annihilation by your practices. We must break with this caricature of democratic debate. We have seen nothing but an uninterrupted chain of deception. Thus, the law for confidence in political life has almost completely stalemated conflicts of interest. It has in no way contributed to restoring confidence, as shown by the epidermal reaction to a recent recruitment in La Française des jeux. The law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration has not significantly reduced the length of time required for education and has expanded the possibilities for legal immigration, particularly with family reunification. The ELAN Act, or the Housing, Development and Digital Development Act, has led to a shock in reverse supply, with housing starts collapsing. As for the source levy, do you think it is a tax reform? No: it is pure engineering, while the anti-casseurs law, or law aimed at strengthening and guaranteeing the maintenance of public order during demonstrations, rejected by the senators of the LaREM group before being taken up here out of opportunism, it is referred to the examination of the Constitutional Council by the President of the Republic himself. There is more discreet in terms of attempted manipulation of opinion! The more we hear about "revolution", "transformation in depth", and "wow effect", the more we experience the stagnation and the "pschitt" effect of timid cursor adjustments. Your verbiage defies the meaning of words. He reminds us of this passage from the Characters of La Bruyère: "There is one thing in you too much, which is the opinion to have more than the others; This is the source of your pompous galimatias, your confused sentences and your great words that mean nothing. » In this case, the text on the civil service, which is already sluggish, has been watered down in committee. You don't rule, you grope. After two years, you are still in the process of increasing consultations and ordering reports to bury others – by the way, what exactly was contained in the CAP22 report that you refused to publish? In fact of modernization and governance 2.0, you beautifully decline the administration depicted by Courteline in 1893 in Messieurs-de-cuir. It would be a waste of time to get rid of the slightest beginning of clarification and simplification. However, the French are not fooled by the emptiness of your grandioseness. The differences between display, reality and results cause the huge mistrust you now face. Conjugated with the presidential arrogance, they plunged the country into a protracted crisis that costs "a crazy money". [[Rites and exclamations on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This will be the case as long as you refuse to work on your files. You prefer thinking in silos of political marketing. You juxtapose provisions, without worrying about a course, of overall coherence. Your reasoning looks like a headless chicken wandering around. So, on the one hand, it will not be surprising for you to have to track down the blind corners of your choices or, rather, your non-choices. For the text that concerns us, let us be sure that in some time you will have to talk again, for example, about absenteeism, the attractiveness of the public service, the impoverishment of public research or the physical obstacles to mobility. On the other hand, we would exhaust ourselves in seeking innovative arrangements. The use of contract workers is already in effect, as is voluntary departure: you do not even change the nature of the contract, but only the terms and conditions. These are missed opportunities to question and introduce the modalities of the remuneration of public officials – why not? – the spirit of interest and participation. Where are the substantive questions? Can we reform the public service without thinking about public spending? There is an urgent need to reduce it, both for our sovereignty and for what we owe to future generations. Can the civil service be effectively reformed without in the past redefining the scope of State action, the structures and the most effective means of carrying out the public service tasks that result therefrom? Can the territorial civil service be reformed without prior clarification of the competences of local administrations? Can the public service be reformed regardless of proximity and thus without a territorial approach to the subject? Can we reform the hospital public service by going ahead with the adoption of a law that is supposed to bring a successful conception of the health of the 21st century, dear to Mrs Buzyn? On these fundamental questions, on which everything depends, there is no question in your text. By tightening the focus, other structuring questions appear. Should we have the same status when we judge, we guarantee order, we teach, we count, we run or we run an airy centre or a neighbourhood house? A distinction must be applied here on the basis of criteria of sovereignty, not good repute. Let's take a step aside to avoid a false trial, if not a false step. Let's look at a different angle: are we treating better, less well or differently depending on whether you are a doctor, nurse or statutory caregiver, contract agent – public or private – or liberal? The same questions arise when designing or maintaining a public space. The answers to these questions depend more on the individual and collective quality of the people who carry out these tasks than on the status they enjoy. In any event, it seems curious not to decide on these points before embarking on effective, fair and modern public service reform. Yet, like too many of their predecessors, it is the ease to which the President of the Republic and his government give way. Let us leave these guiding principles to try to stick to that of pragmatism, efficiency and the fulfilment of presidential commitments. A finding of insufficiency immediately falls. Indeed, I repeat, the Public Service Transformation Act bears its name badly. It avoids the question of the status and scope of its allocation. Either, but in addition, does it break with the principle of promotion to seniority? Is it hunting down the multitude of special statutes, whereas we also rightly wish to unify pension schemes? Does it ask the question of working time, slippery, cumulation of duties and responsibilities, or cumulation of remuneration – which is different from the problem of their management? Is it dealing with grey areas made up of the multiplication of satellite structures which make it possible to circumvent the rules for capping public wages? Does it ask the question of the division between support and operational functions? None of this, and nothing that allows us to think that the objectives of candidate Macron, namely the removal of 120,000 posts, have the slightest chance of being held! On the contrary, the renunciation of this commitment by the President of the Republic is only half a confession, as much as this regression is already contained in the non-reform that you have presented to us. There could be a skilful objection that certain provisions are within the regulatory authority. Of course, but was it not precisely an opportunity to restrict this exorbitant possibility which puts officials in a position to enact the rules that concern them themselves? Once again, we gargle words and focus on measures that are symbolic. The system of voluntary departures already exists and does not work. The planned adjustments will not have any more effect, since, for example, there is no concern about a thorough reform of the rules of availability. Who would let go of his status when he was free to exercise up to ten years, or 25% of his career, his talents outside the administration while retaining his rights, especially that of being automatically reinstated? In addition, is the relevance of the measure being re-examined? Is this not, in fact, a risk of subsidising the departure of the best elements and of changing early retirement? In fact, it's easier to make the decision to drop your status when you have a profile that makes sure you're recasing. Organizing the escape of the best with public money would be a dramatic cunning in a sustainable period of resource constraints. Openness broadens the recruitment of contract workers. The Council of State is a useful reminder that there are already many possibilities and is concerned about the opacity of the new criteria provided for in the text. On the other hand, we use the same sterile trick that consists of gesticulating around the 35-hour totem without, of course, ever touching it. The objective of devitalizing the status is to make it clear to a section of the electorate who is hostile to it by titling the unions. However, the Council of State clearly underlines the reality: the law does not call into question "the main principles governing the French civil service, in particular the existence of statutes". In addition, will this measure, which is focused mainly on management, not pose a problem of attractiveness and career development for the best profiles? Why take a contest to get the jobs blown up by profiles from the private sector? I see no substantive problem, except that the practical scope is insufficiently considered. Another great absence from the law: the user. Let us move on to the obvious lack of consultation, to find bitterly that the interests of the citizens do not seem to hold any place in this text – we would look in vain for the trace in the explanatory statement of the law. The Government is therefore preparing to submit to us a technical adjustment law, as also noted by the National Federation of Territorial Civil Service Management Centres. In the best of cases, it will lead to the fluidisation of the social dialogue and the consolidation or strengthening of the rights of civil servants, particularly with regard to disability, which we are satisfied with for them, but without being able to guarantee that it will improve the quality of the public service, which, I would remind you, should be its priority objective – and all the more so given the high priority given to the service of the general interest, which is the case for the Republicans. There is no doubt that this has stimulated the combative spirit of LR parliamentarians, who take the opportunity to unlock the debate, in particular to re-enter the case of the senior public service, left aside by the bill – curiosity that can only be explained by political calculus or, worse, by the anticipated capitulation. The practice of retro-pantouflage – starting in the private sector and returning to the state orbit – has multiplied an unbearable decision-making between oneself. There was a minimum level of requirement, to which you have not managed to rise: that of the commitment of the overwhelming majority of public officials in the service of the general interest. In addition, we already know that your policy of Gribouille, which will do nothing, will cost the taxpayer more, since you have given to the unions premiums of precariousness and a stricter framework of conventional breaches. That is why we call for the referral back to committee of this text which is untasteful and unfit to lead to the transformation that the country, its officials and its officials deserve. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Thank you for your attentive and disciplined listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u41	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u42	Mr President, you have finally told us little about the text, either that you find it quite successful or that you do not agree with anything about it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I noted earlier a contradiction in some aspects of Mr Marleix's argument. I must admit, in terms of contradictions, you served us! During the few minutes of your speech on the text, you said that we are not going far enough, that we need to open up more, liberalise and break the statute. However, you defended amendments in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for two weeks ago, which said exactly the opposite. Perhaps the reference to the committee you are calling for from your wishes would only be useful if you could resolve this contradiction with yourself. The Government is against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u43	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u44	Mr President, you say that there is nothing new in this text, while on the other side of the House we were told on the previous motion for rejection how cataclysm this reform is. This leads me to believe that our text may not be so ill-positioned as that. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You have mentioned everything that is not in this text. I have also heard many questions from you, but I have also not found any answers in your speech that could be assimilated to proposals. Dear colleague, everyone has his or her own emptiness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u45	On the motion for referral to committee, a request for a public vote is before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u46	I always try to focus on the reasons that may justify a motion to reject or refer to committee. In this case, my colleague, forgive me for telling you that I have not heard any argument from you that might justify a referral to committee. What I have heard is an all-out opposition, which not only concerns the text that we are going to discuss earlier, but also an aggression – not to say aggression – on subjects that certainly concern the public service, but not only. On the other hand, with regard to the insufficient work which would have been that of the committee, nothing! We understood that we did not have the same conception of what the status of the public service should be, and above all that we differed on whether or not to maintain it. As far as we are concerned, we are committed to maintaining that status. It is simply a matter for you and for us to debate in a calm manner a different political position. For the rest, I repeat, I have not heard any arguments justifying a referral to committee. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote for this referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u47	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u48	It will be quite difficult for us to adhere to the words of our colleague Masson, but acknowledge the merit of ideological coherence: the whole of his presentation, with certain skill, consisted in saying that this text does not go far enough on the status of the public service, which would be too protective; not far enough on the need to use contractors; not far enough on the need to restrain trade unions;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u50	...not far enough with regard to the abolition of 120,000 posts – it seems to regret that this abolition is only hypothetical and would have preferred that this commitment not be so! If we cannot agree on the substance of all his arguments – in his view it would be a gesture, a deceit – we cannot, however, consider that this text would not deserve to be referred to committee, since the motion for rejection was not adopted. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] It seems necessary to vote for referral back to committee for at least three reasons. The first reason is that all trade union organisations are hostile, which should prompt us to reconsider this text. Second, you introduce the worm into the fruit of public service: Mr. Masson may consider that there are not enough worms to make it virtuous in his eyes, but we believe that this bill contains a large, dangerous bill. The third reason, finally, is that you are misleading more than you are transforming the public service through this text. That is why, without sharing what has been said, the Socialist and Related Group will vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u51	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u52	If members of the IUD, Act and Independent Group had to defend a motion to refer to committee, many arguments could be used in support of such a motion. For example, we would have regretted the overly systematic use of orders – a government method since the beginning of the quinquennium – that divested parliamentarians of certain, not least, subjects in this public service text. While the Minister is committed to involving national representation in the development of these orders, we will ensure that this association is not limited to parliamentarians of the majority. We could also have highlighted the difficulty of tabling a number of governmental amendments at the sitting. Having been unable to be examined by the committee, they demonstrate, if necessary, that this text, when presented in the Council of Ministers and then examined in committee, was in fact not successful, secure, stabilized. The work in committee has been beneficial on a number of points; for outstanding or pending issues, a return to committee could also be beneficial. In addition, the text and its timetable were shattered as a result of presidential announcements at the end of the major debate. These conflicts with the Government's original statements 15 months ago: the target of a reduction of 120,000 civil servants now seems to be abandoned, while the massive use of contract workers is one way of achieving a smooth reduction in the number of civil servants. Finally, the opposition of the social partners and trade unions is total, whereas this text has been the subject of a consultation of more than 15 months. There are thus a number of arguments in favour of referral back to committee, even if they are not those used by Mr Masson. Members of the IUD, Act and Independent Group will therefore be free to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u53	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u54	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the La France insoumée group will vote on this motion for referral to committee for many reasons. Some have already been presented, the first being that we must continue the consultation, the consultation, the negotiation, the discussion – call it what you want – with the trade union organisations. Fifteen months to put everyone on the back, it's a beautiful performance, a beautiful feat! Your colleague Nicole Belloubet had done the same thing on the justice bill: you are multi-recidivists when it comes to putting you on the sidelines! At the moment when the President of the Republic says he wants to reconnect with them, it's a little missed! Another reason is the massive use of prescriptions: there may be a way to clarify what you are going to put in! We could safely go back to commission to dig the only ordinances. It might be interesting to look at the orders to revisit the initial and continuing training, the competitions, the great schools of administration, rather than to refer us to a consultation – a consultation that will last fifteen or seventeen months, all this to put everyone back on your back again: it's nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u56	Let's work, let's look at the background, let's write down the texts, let's talk about them, let's vote for them, let's vote against them, let's move forward, rather than lead everyone through the end of the nose by saying to people: "I'll put you in a working group, you'll see, it'll be too good! "I've worked with everyone, all the unions, all the parliamentarians! and, once again, put everyone on their backs. This is definitely not the right method, unless you want to be sure to lose in 2022, and I wish you! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This motion to refer to committee is the best way to get to the end of the debate and not hide behind your little finger pretending not to want to end the status of the public service. Of course you want to end the status of the public service! It is for you a carcan, a lock, a rigidity, a constraint, a weight, a heaviness – you know all the vocabulary, which you recite along columns in the newspapers and along the length of speeches! That is a good further reason to vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u57	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I am really convinced of the need for a referral back to committee, for the text, of course, but above all for the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, like my colleague Stéphane Peu, to be able to convince the group. The Republicans that this text is much more right-wing than he thinks. This text is extremely regressive and extremely conservative. Stéphane Peu, Pierre Dharréville and I will demonstrate in our various interventions that this text is a company to demolish the status of the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u60	It's sarkozyst!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u61	It is the French concept of public service that is called into question in this text, and we will demonstrate this in the general discussion and in the debates that will follow in the coming days. There are other reasons, apart from our willingness to convince you – it will not take us much work, because you certainly think that this text proposes measures that you would have liked to take but that you may not have had the political courage to take. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Among the topics we could discuss, for example, we could try to understand why the journey was so chaotic: after the abandonment of CAP22 – Public Action Committee 2022 – months and months of procrastination were needed to try to bring out a text, certainly lame but decisive though. We could work on the massive use of orders, with the multiplication of referrals to committee – a big job to do in committee! We could also prepare the work of the Council of State, since it will be necessary to carry out a huge work of writing decrees. Finally, it would be really interesting for you to give us the definition of your conception of managerial ideology, which is in fact the basis of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u62	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u63	The Libertés et Territoires Group considers that public service reform should not be considered solely on the basis of accounting logic – a cold, technical logic – even if these are elements that should be taken into account. It is not a goal of reducing public spending that must guide us, but a imperative of proximity and efficiency of public services, as well as recognition by public servants for the work they do on a daily basis, in the service of the general interest. Last Thursday's mobilization showed that there were real fears, and we hope that you will hear them, Secretary of State. For an ambitious reform, in order to strengthen our public service and adapt it to the new challenges it faces, our group considers it essential to answer a preliminary question: the division of powers between the State and local and regional authorities. This issue can only be resolved by a new shock of decentralization and greater responsibilities entrusted to the territories: this is in any case our sensitivity. Indeed, it seems unthinkable that we can collectively imagine the public service of tomorrow, as you invite us in this text, without having answered that question. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] At the end of the great national debate, the President of the Republic has made announcements, often vague, which challenge us as we begin our consideration of this text. I am thinking of abandoning the objective of abolishing 120,000 posts of civil servants, to which he had committed himself, of stopping the closure of schools or hospitals, or of announcing a movement of decentralisation and differentiation. Without details of these announcements, without concrete progress, without a strong act, it is difficult to say: we must clarify things. It is in this perspective, therefore, that our group will vote in favour of this motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u64	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u65	So far, in the Chamber, we have heard a dogma reply to another dogma: that of the almighty State, which could hire the entire nation, and that of the State, which could dispense with each of its collaborators since they are so useless or so idle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u66	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u67	Both face the cold wall of the implacable reality of our officials on the ground. In the fifteen months of negotiations that you found to be non-existent, these officials participated. They said, in the context of social dialogue, the difficulties and realities of everyday life. They said the discrimination experienced by women in career development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u68	In the end, they said stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u69	They said the precariousness that some contractors are encountering and to which we have responded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u70	They don't expect that answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u71	There's nothing in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u72	They also said their journeys, their difficulties of evolution and the mobilitys they did not see coming. However, you did not address it because you chose, in this motion for referral to committee, to deal with what was not in the text. And yet, we have put in the text proposals: on the status, which is not intended to disappear and which we maintain; on promotion and seniority, since mobility responds to it; on working time, since it remains, and it is quite normal, at 35 o'clock;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u73	It's normal for the old socialist you are!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u74	...on pensions, for which we have already announced that we will revise special schemes in the reform that will be presented this summer. There is no controversy on these issues. On the other hand, you talked about the only objective that interests you: the dogma of abolishing public servants. Again, let us refer you to the program that was yours: 500,000 job deletions, not only is it stupid, but it is also impossible! We made a realistic commitment of 120,000, but that is not an absolute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u75	We need good adductors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u76	Indeed, the public policy that we want to lead is not intended to destroy the public service: it aims to make it more effective and to reduce the inequalities between public servants and private employees. That is why we are continuing to align schemes with social dialogue, careers, mobility, equal pay: we are doing this! [[Smiles and exclamations on a few benches]] At the same time, we are continuing to reduce the number of agents we have undertaken. In fact, it is not us who pursue it: it is the communities...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u77	They don't have a choice! You impose it on them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u78	... whose elected representatives are on your board, with the non-renewal of 12,000 to 15,000 agents per year. By contracting, Mr. Saulignac, we will reduce the number of public servants in the territorial civil service by 70000. It is in this way, and through ambitious reforms such as source levying or tele-declaration, that we will reduce the number of agents while maintaining public services. From this point of view, not only do we change the public service and the structure of the state...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u79	Socialist argument! You're saving money with others' money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... but in addition we are performing well in public spending, and that is why you are jealous of the public action that we are conducting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u81	Commedia dell'arte!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u82	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u83	You are asking us why we should move this motion to refer it back to committee. I'll give you five. First, the title of the text does not reflect its content at all. We are talking pompously about public service reform, when we are talking about the addition of a few measures that will not change our country's public service at all. Secondly, there is a great absence in this text: the user citizen. The comments made at the moment by Mr Houlié show how little consideration you have for the public service and for those who are at the end of the chain: our fellow citizens see the number of agents in local authorities being reduced by force, since there is no longer the means to maintain a certain number of posts, but they do not understand where you want to go with the local services, which they need on a daily basis. This text only pushes this nail, which tomorrow will be deadly for a large number of territories. Third, if you claim to maintain a status of the public service, you organize a form of mitage of this status by creating multiple forms of contracts that will intrude on the way the service is rendered. It's a political choice you'll have to take. Above all, you do not answer any of the questions about public service positions, whether in terms of attractiveness, careers or compensation. In some disciplines, there are almost no candidates for national education competitions; During this time, families get involved every year when they see that not only are there no full teachers in front of the classrooms, but there is not even the prospect of a replacement. Does this text answer these questions? This is what the French need in terms of public service reform! Fourthly, how can a major piece of public service reform be proposed without addressing career development? As we address the issue of pensions in a few weeks' time, we do not provide any response to the vast majority of public service employees and, tomorrow, private law contractors in the public service, who must be able to evolve over the course of their careers. It's hard to imagine that a person stays forty-two years in the same position! You do not answer these questions. [[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, it is the very wisdom to refer the text back to committee, since the only meagre progress that has been made since the examination in committee has been at the initiative of the LR Group, particularly with regard to ethics. This leads us to believe that a return to the committee would allow our other proposals to be finally heard by your majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u84	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u85	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 26 Against 53
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u86	In the general debate, Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u87	The text that we are about to consider is an ambitious text, which responds to a strong commitment of the President of the Republic. It is also, it should be stressed, the outcome of several months of discussions with all the actors concerned. Our colleagues in the Group of the Republicans did not dislike it, but they were largely reworked in committee in a constructive spirit. First of all, I wanted to stress the quality of our debates in committee, which was held constructively on many points. I would also like to thank you, Secretary of State, for the precise answers and clarifications that you have given us on a regular basis during this review, as well as for the commitments you made to the committee and respected. We are all committed to public services; It must be ensured that it is effective and continuous, by giving administrations and agents the appropriate organizational means and tools. This is the main objective of this text, which is renovating social dialogue bodies to provide flexibility in human resources management, while improving career development and providing new guarantees. The status of the civil service is a French specificity. In many of its provisions, it constitutes a necessary protection for the performance of public service tasks in a transparent and impartial manner. This bill has made the choice not to question it, but rather to change it and adapt it to our time. Thus, one of the strengths of this text is to allow for greater use of contracting. Far from opposing civil servants and contractors, on the contrary, it is necessary to create the conditions for each other to act in complementarity with their own strengths and competences. This increased contracting, we see it as a management flexibility, allowing us to recruit the most suitable profile for the position to be filled and to find skills that are not necessarily included in the public service pool. This is, in particular, the purpose of the project contract, created by clause 8 of the bill, a tool that responds to a request from communities and administrations. However, we are still not convinced of the relevance of opening this type of contract to category C jobs. I believe, Mr Marleix, that you agreed on this point, and that is one of your contributions during the examination of the text in committee. In order to avoid any deviation and to align more closely with the model of the defined object contract existing in the private sector, we propose to restrict this device to jobs in categories A and B. In this area, our group will be very vigilant about securing short-term contract purposes and the allocation of proportionate compensation. You have told us, Mr Secretary of State, that you are going to propose a mechanism for at least contracts of less than a year, and I thank you for this: the public employer cannot be less than the private sector. This text also proposes simplifications in the field of mobility which are particularly welcome. As you know, career development has changed a lot in recent years. These are less monolithic and often allow for the diversification of experiences. It seems to me important and natural that the public service adapt to these changes in mentality, models, culture and opportunities for respiration in public servants' careers. To facilitate mobility between the various sides of the civil service, to enable civil servants to reach the private sector on a level playing field: these are tools that are expected by all. This fluidity of paths must necessarily be accompanied by a strengthening of ethical control, both when leaving and when returning to the public service, but also when hiring contractors, with a strengthened independence of the body in charge of this control. In this approach, we have adopted an amendment in committee, inspired by the excellent report by Messrs. Marleix and Matras, acting on the merger of the Commission on the Ethics of the Civil Service and the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life. From the outset, the MODEM Group voted in favour of the Single College, which gave full scope to the merger principle. We weren't the only ones. We would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this and on the composition of the College, which has been carried out in a constructive spirit and which has been successful between the committee and the sitting, even though I know that a sub-amendment will be proposed to us, responding to considerations that we can hear. Many of us have therefore tabled an identical amendment, resulting from this consultation, which makes it possible to complete the fusion logic, with a single president and a single college, composed equally of judges and qualified personalities, in any case at this stage. The MODEM Group considers that the transfer to the High Authority of powers in the field of ethical control is a guarantee of independence and will allow the development of a clear and transparent doctrine. We are very pleased with the adoption of amendments in committee, which provide for binding decisions and public opinions. In addition, the High Authority will have to play an active role in facilitating the network of deontologists, in order to ensure the dissemination throughout the public service of a ethical culture, necessary to prevent conflicts of interest and to combat corruption. Finally, this bill is an opportunity to address a topic that is dear to the MODEM group, that of transparency. In the course of committee work, we have adopted a number of significant provisions concerning the advertising of remuneration in the senior civil service and the supervision of the remuneration of the presidents of independent administrative authorities. In the course of the discussions, we will propose several amendments to supplement these arrangements, to bring the transparency obligations closer to the highest remuneration in the private sector, or to prevent the cumulation of employment and full retirement within the independent administrative authorities and the independent public authorities. The expectations of our fellow citizens in this regard are strong and we cannot disappoint them. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I hope that our debates in the House will be as constructive as they were in committee and that they will make it possible to feed this bill for the transformation of the public service, to which the MODEM Group fully supports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u88	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u89	The history of the public service is a long story, with its procrastination, zigzags and hiccups; an equivocal, complex, fertile history that passes through the Republic and its principles, which forges it, which must convince us that no reform can be put under the sign of obviousness and that pragmatism, of which the executive often drapes itself, is a somewhat short science to deal with complex problems. For who would have believed it, our republican history begins with a "liberal utopia, that of a cheap government", according to the expression of Pierre Rosanvallon, down from the plethoric administration of Ancien régime suspected of obstructing the direct government of the general will. Vive was then the critic of the disastrous "offices", denounced by Saint-Just as a masked survival of monarchism, brutal the denunciation of parasitism as an enterprise of domination through which the powerful oppress the peoples. That is to say, inherently, from the outset, the public service has something to do with the general will and popular sovereignty, against its confiscation, against absolutism. The young Third Republic, born of the defeat of Sedan, that of Gambetta, Ferry or Favre, was also built against the Bonapartist State, against the Napoleonic "administrative supermonarchy", the soldiers, the treasurers general, the parish priests, incarnations of the reaction and clericism Honnis. As for the National Council of Resistance, its inspirators as well as its servants, after Vichy – of sinister memory – they aspired to make the State a force embodying the spirit of the Resistance and the public service its armed arm. It is the meaning and the very essence of the great law of 1946 and of the principles that underpin the general status of the civil service, whose 1983 law is, in essence, the culmination – a statute, moreover, which had nothing of obviousness or of a social conquest: it contains rights, but above all duties, obligations. The Republic, like the trade unions themselves, has in turn fought, hoped for, claimed, defended. That is to say, once again, if the public service as we know it today has something to do with individual emancipation, with political progress, with the general interest, with public freedoms, with the French conception of public service, with a solidaristic, duguistic conception. It is the raison d'être of the statute and the principles that underpin it. The first of them is equality. Entry into the public service is through the competition, which guarantees equal access to public employment and selection through competence. Competition as a means of reconciling the selection of the most able and the democratization of the public service, competition as the best bulwark to copying, favouritism and clientelism. The second principle is independence. Civil servants must be protected from political uncertainty and arbitrariness. The French public service is therefore based on the so-called career system, where the rank is distinct from employment. The third principle is citizenship. Civil servants are citizens who have the same rights as other citizens: freedom of opinion, trade union rights and the right to strike, all of which are in line with the obligations of the civil service in terms of neutrality, ethics, discretion or public information. The administration, the Republic, depending on the times, has defied or entrusted itself with it. It has defied an administration on which, here, the suspicion of the reaction, that of collaboration, always that of the confiscation of state power and of democratic expression, weighs. She entrusted herself to an administration of hussards sent on mission in France of terroirs – to Ardèche! – with in its heart public education as a cement of the "republican party". The history of the public service is republican, made of patiently constructed compromises. The public service, in the words of Georges Labazée, is "part of a powerful age-old movement for the organization and socialization of society." It has a singular place in France in the political and social order. That is why there is no reform of the civil service which, inherently, does not contain a reform of the State. Your reform is no exception because we cannot seriously, fundamentally, think of the civil service without thinking, even in the middle of it, of public action and the place of the State. Perhaps it would have been preferable, in terms of democratic debate and coherence, to make the Public Action 2022 report public, to do things in a way in order, and thus to assume, before the French, your vision of public action and your intentions. Otherwise, it is in your "public service transformation" project that we will try to read your view of the state, the public service and, let's say, the public interest. No doubt, to take only two examples, the abolition of posts in the public service – even in national education – the privatisation of Paris airports – a de facto monopoly and a national public service – already tell us something about your conception of public action, what its scope should be, your relationship with the market, the company, your aspirations and even your inspirations. There is in your project the Frédéric Bastiat and Georges d'Avenel – if you want to give some historical affiliation to your policy – the new public management Anglo-Saxon, obviously. Your law lacks culture, historical depth and, at the same time, vision and vision. It weakens a building patiently built and misses the essentials. The main stigma is the increasing availability of contract workers in all categories of public service employment. You make it a modern paragon, the pivot of the effectiveness of public action. I see, too much to extend, the risk of his corruption. The status is not at first protective of the agents: it is primarily protective of the republican order and of the general interest, especially when it is discussed, sometimes attacked, in radically new forms. Basically, we are facing a new stage of secularization. It is no longer so much a question of excluding the general interest, public action, the state from the influence of the Church – although... – as it is of the tyranny of short time that devours the future, of the particular interests that undermine the most established solidaritys by holding the general interest for a simple social compromise between divergent interests, or of the abuse of powers of the private power in new forms, in particular in favour of the digital revolution. By extending the use of the contract to a very large extent, you certainly do not abolish the statute, but you make the choice of the normalization of the civil service, of the exercise of the State and, ultimately, of the weakening of public action. There is something fundamentally anachronistic about your reform. With the contract, you choose the short term while the climate emergency commands the continuity of public action and calls to reconsider the long time, the future, as a space for projects. The contract, from this point of view, is the antithesis of the career public service and the logic of forward-looking management of jobs and skills. With the contract open to the vast majority of management jobs on the three sides of the public service, you take the risk of confusion between public and private interests, thanks to slippery or retro-pantouflage, at the same time as the French demand more ethics and transparency. With the contract and its avatars, with the possibility of resorting to conventional breaches or of moving certain civil servants into the private sector automatically in the event of outsourcing, you open the way for the narrowing of public action, where the scope of its extension is unprecedented. You set out in your law the basis for the transfer of certain missions to the private sector, without any knowledge of what it might be, when there are rather serious questions today about what should be taken away from it, subtracted from the market and its rules, because the general interest is reached. This is the whole stake of common goods that arise forcefully in the public debate, of land grabbing, for example, of a renewed relationship with private property or with the freedom to undertake. With the contract, you weaken the principles of equality, independence and responsibility that command the public service in an unprecedented moment of challenge to the public authority and the authority of the State. The public service, in its republican form, has also been built in a tension between public freedoms and public authorities. The great affair of the 19th and 20th centuries was to build states of law guaranteeing public freedoms, to contain public authorities in their excesses and, sometimes, in their violence, to prevent their abuse of power. The great business of our time, our common business, is today to contain the abuses of private power and its excesses of power, especially on the part of multinationals. In these circumstances, can we seriously entrust it to agents whose protection would be reduced? Finally, with a competing contract in the competition, you take the risk of arbitrariness, breach of equality, clientelism in recruitment. You take the risk of making complacency take precedence over competence, of signing the return of the subject public official against the civil servant, and of triumphing the hierarchical authoritarianism that the law for a school of Mr Blanquer's trust – is it a coincidence? – restored to the taste of the light, like his incessant reminders to order to the slightest dissonant voice and, sometimes, to the thinnest of trade union leaflets, as if it were not only the little men to fear the little writings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u90	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u91	This law could have sought to address some of the issues that I have just mentioned – imagining the public service of tomorrow, the public service of the 21st century – rather than subreptitiously disarming public action by holding a long and rich history for little. But are you even aware of it? You claim that your law modernizes the statute and allows it to adapt to society and its expectations, which I do not believe for a second. It avoids most of the great questions of our time and, yet, the Republic still needs so many hussards! Today as yesterday – the words are from Anicet Le Pors – we do not serve the state as we serve a private company. With your project, you seem to think the opposite and even consider that one must now manage the state as one manages a business – and again, not according to the best practices of capitalism enlightened by the codetermination or by the consideration of the stakeholders. No, your law is based on the retrograde model of social dialogue as set out in Mrs Pénicaud's orders, of which I have the sad honour of being the co-rapporteur for the evaluation of implementation. If I could make a formula echoing the first hearings and if the national representation could hold this echo as an alarm, to the question of whether the reform has strengthened the social dialogue...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u92	Of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u93	... I would reply to what the representatives of the trade union organisations replied: "No, in no way. » That is why your bill will unheard of weaken social dialogue in the public service. On the one hand, it merges certain bodies to the detriment of those competent in the field of hygiene, safety and working conditions, even though occupational health is a key issue in the context of restructuring. On the other hand, it reduces the powers of the Joint Administrative Boards, CAPs, which are now consulted on all individual decisions. In the Government's view, I know that these bodies are a source of rigidity when they have no decision-making power, ensure transparency of decisions, and often make them more acceptable to officials. By weakening the social dialogue, weakening the CHSCT, the health, safety and working conditions committees, which are in the public, as they were in the private sector, one of the bodies that worked best; By reducing CAPs to little, and by allowing arbitrariness to interfere with the advancement of public officials, you de facto weaken the statutory protections that are there to guarantee the impartiality of agents and the proper execution of the public interest. I will not go into the details of the measures proposed by your bill, and the debate will give us the opportunity, and I would not like to give the feeling that your bill is just a technical reform: obviously it is a political one. I would simply note that this legislation, which you say is expected of all, is the result of so-called "intense consultation", and is unanimously rejected by the nine union organizations in the public service. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. Jeanine Dubie also applauds]] To those who think they are modern by proclaiming that there are too many civil servants, that the contract is better than the statute, that its rules are an anachronism, I say that there is nothing better shared in history than the caricature of the civil servant round-the-cook, the criticism of the bureaucracy, the denunciation of the rising tide of functionalism, or the poncifs managers, nothing better shared than the evidences of counters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u94	Very nice intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u95	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u96	The public service is at the heart of our democratic life – many have already said – but also of the expectations of our fellow citizens, as the conclusions of the great debate have once again proved. That is why we must approach its reform with particular vigilance and care, in line with what it represents in our country in terms of service to our citizens, employment and social cohesion. The bill is intended to transform the public service. The three sides, however, cover a wide range of public service tasks, which fall within the scope of a wide range of tasks and occupations. Nevertheless, it is possible and even indispensable to talk about a public service, the overall logic of which is the same: it is the public service. His history in France has just been widely recalled, with a grandiose effect that I will not use. Its principles and purpose make the public sector, the civil service, a particular legal and social field; They give those who carry out these tasks special responsibilities: neutrality, independence, secularism, equal treatment of users are both values, rights and duties that govern, supervise and protect the mission of public officials on a daily basis. The status of the public service has its raison d'être: this is a point that we must not lose sight of in the rest of our debates. However, the IDU, Act and Independent group does not consider it intangible; It must not be frozen. No one disputes the need to change the environment, the trades and the tasks of civil servants; Today, mobility, in time and space, is increasingly being demanded, and new jobs have emerged, requiring new skills. These are new issues that require the Public Service to change. Moreover, the expectations of our fellow citizens, expressed strongly in recent months, of wider public intervention, of a return to local public services, but without increasing the tax burden, make the future of the public service a real challenge. Action is essential; The Government has chosen action, which we can only welcome. However, in a very regrettable way, its action is at the opposite end of what it should be. What has been presented to us as a great concertation of more than a year has led to the censure and opposition of all the trade union organisations. Both the method and the objectives are not clear, and therefore not understood. When we read the bill, we can only see inconsistencies. When it comes to hiring contractors, you say you want to attract talent, but you will have to pay them better than civil servants; But you also say you want to save money. Next, you seem to be taking the path of penalising short contracts in the private sector, while encouraging their use in the public sector, notably through the new project contract. On many points, you say you want to transpose labour law, but you never go to the end of your logic, especially when this right is more protective than that of the public service. You are putting in place a conventional break for civil servants, while their employment is not based on the logic of the contract. The text also suffers from certain shortcomings. The bill before us is partial and sometimes gives the impression that the Government is navigating on sight. Thus, you only approach recruitment from the perspective of contractors, but you do not deal with competitions, learning, or the attractiveness of tomorrow's public service. You do not address the issue of pay scales or the purchasing power of public servants. You explain your desire to transform the public service; But the text is silent on these major points. Similarly, you do not refer to any overall logic of career paths and training. Other crucial issues, such as the social protection of agents, are referred to the ordinances, which we cannot satisfy ourselves, even though, Mr. Secretary of State, you have stated that you are open to the idea of involving national representation in their development. We will be vigilant on this point, hoping that this association will not be limited to parliamentarians of the majority. To carry out a reform of the public service as a whole, as you have the ambition, is not annoyed and requires a particular rigour. But you have presented us with a text with holes. New elements have been added in committee, which we welcome, because they have improved the original text; Others will be in session, so much so that one ends up wondering about the degree of unpreparation of the text. The parliamentary discussion is of course there to make changes and improvements, but admit that so many changes between the text presented in the Council of Ministers and the text which will result from its first reading leave a dream. We are closer to a text of gribouille than to a true vision of the public service of the future. I would also like to stress the lack of a response to the expectations of our fellow citizens. You did not want to wait a few more weeks to propose a project that incorporates the demands of the big debate. The need to address public service deserts is never mentioned; you do not provide any solution to develop services in the territories. Yet that is the primary expectation of our fellow citizens. Finally, only the promises of the latest announcements of the President of the Republic remain. Recognize, moreover, that their timetable disturbs that of the discussion of this text, and allow me to be puzzled again on the method. A more careful reading of the text draws attention to certain measures, whether positive or subject to debate. Title I aims to "promote a more strategic social dialogue". But, Mr. Secretary of State, what is this strategy? In fact, as we have already mentioned in committee, you are virtually depriving the Joint Administrative Committees of their powers, removing the specificity of the Committees on Health, Safety and Working Conditions, and proposing measures by order. These processes demonstrate a strong desire for rationalization; You want to do a copy-paste of labour law. In doing so, however, you will not achieve the improvement of social dialogue in the public service. By removing the skills of CAPs for mobility, change or advancement, you will engage in conflicting relationships, remove a moderator and give rise to a mistrust that has not existed so far. With regard to the merger of the CHSCTs and the technical committees, you take the enormous risk of devaluing a specialized body, albeit a recent one in the public service, which works. Psychosocial risks have never been so present: therefore, it does not seem appropriate to merge the bodies, because this would be at the expense of their effectiveness and specificity. In addition, CAPs and CHSCTs are bodies dedicated to addressing individual and particular issues; They are precious by their proximity to the agents. I will not dwell on this, because my arguments are not new: all the unions have raised these issues, as well as all the groups in committee. Unfortunately, we were not heard, and you refused to change your position. However, the UDI, Act and Independents Group has again tabled certain amendments in order to relaunch the discussion, because the difficulties which will be caused by this title are real. As far as the use of the contract is concerned, we are not, of course, closed. We are aware that new needs, new jobs and new skills have emerged. On the other hand, we are asking for more guarantees. We take note of the progress made with regard to the treaty breakdown, which has now been better regulated, thanks to the vote on an amendment tabled by the rapporteur. However, the text does not address insecurity. The least that could be done would be to grant a precarious allowance systematically to all CSDs – as the Labour Code provides for. It seems quite incomprehensible to exclude project contracts. Obviously blocked by the rules on financial admissibility, we cannot table any amendments to that effect, but we have made sure that the debate can take place at least. This new precariousness will never guarantee a greater efficiency of our public services. Public employers must, I believe, be exemplary on this point, in order never to level the regulation of work down. The new room for manoeuvre available to them is legitimate if it is part of a protective framework for public officials. With regard to ethics, transparency and equality between women and men, we are, of course, very much in favour of the measures contained in the bill, as well as the further progress achieved in committee. It is time for measures to be taken to ensure clarity in the operation of the senior public service. However, some members of our group propose to go even further in these developments. Transparency or supervision should not be limited to independent administrative authorities. Similarly, if one can consider that a cap on cumulation of employment and retirement would be a step forward, it seems to us preferable to clearly prohibit such cumulation. With regard to equality between women and men, these measures are so important that all agents must be able to benefit from them. We will propose amendments to this effect, although I am aware that the provisions proposed to us are the result of an agreement with the trade union organisations. But deconstructing the text measured by measure does not really make sense if we do not have an overall understanding of these measures. And this is where it hurts, Secretary of State: you present us with a text whose real political significance is difficult to understand. And you don't explain it; When the question is asked, you avoid it. Yet it is essential to shed more light on your project: it is important to know today what we want to support or reject in the long term. Your political choices are not clear; What really are your goals? Multiplying recourse to the contract, while asserting that it preserves the status, is not transparent. If there is a question about public servants, the consequences of the answers that can be provided must be borne in mind. For the question of the civil service is not autonomous; It calls for the presence or retreat of the state in the territories, and this question in turn commits us to the vision of public service, and to the answers to the daily needs of our fellow citizens. For example, is the new project contract there to provide for some new practical needs, or is it becoming a gaping door to the unknown? If the use of the contract was to become the rule rather than the exception, would you put a stop to it, or would you agree with this new contractualised civil service, like that of the United Kingdom? In short, what public service do you want for tomorrow? France needs a real debate on the future of the public sector, which clearly asks questions, including those that are annoying. That is why IDU is proposing national public sector and public service foundations to put on the table all the issues that relate to the career of public servants, their status and future, remuneration, retirement, and to provide comprehensive answers. Should all public officials be in statute? Should all trades in the public sector be in status? These are political choices that deserve to be made clear, in full transparency, to officials and to our fellow citizens. To ensure the modernity and future of the public service, we must put an end to the depreciative discourse that public servants would not work sufficiently and would not be competent. The Government has not done so, which has raised concerns. The Government often submits projects whose titles are evocative but do not necessarily reflect the reality of the content. In this case, the public service will not be truly transformed, but rather will be subject to adaptations that could lead to potential dangers if the text fails to meet its objectives. You are instilling significant changes that gradually detrigger the status without presenting an overall political vision. There is blurry between civil servants and contractors, outsourcing or privatization. In the absence of a clear choice, you avoid the need to restore meaning to engagement in the public sector and you take the risk of competing with all public officials, those recruited by competition, who gradually lose their interest, and those recruited directly by contract. Moreover, the announcements of the President of the Republic have added to the confusion. We look forward to much discussion, as the text seems to remain in the middle of the ford. You will not have seized the opportunity to reform the public service in depth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u97	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u98	This project runs counter to the wishes of the French, especially public servants. The yellow vests, however, will not fail to hammer it: more public services are needed! You'll tell me they didn't ask for more officials. However, medical deserts, the lack of community-based public services, the lack of access to community justice, the state of daily safety and security attest to the shortage of public officials to carry out these tasks. Unfortunately, at the end of his last press conference, we could all see that Emmanuel Macron has moved from "Always Cause" to "Explain to me your needs, I will tell you how to do without it." And to explain to those who demand more public services how to do with fewer officials! This is the equation that this text attempts to solve, in vain, since we all know that it will lead to the deterioration of public services offered to citizens. In fact, it is under general conditions which have been altered for too long by the liberal policies which have followed each other that this mission of general interest is now being embraced. Staff members are not accountable for the budget cuts imposed on them. Go tell a caregiver who has to handle fifty beds an hour in the hospital that he's a lazy man!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u99	Don't try!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u100	Go and tell a prison guard that he is not performing his duties during the night while his service is struggling to recruit the necessary staff. Go and tell the court clerks that they are not available to litigants while the procedures under their charge explode. Go and tell the administrative officers that the objectives are not being met while the general review of public policies, the RGPP, and then the modernisation of public action, the MAP, and finally the Public Action Committee 2022, CAP 2022, have resulted in drastically reducing the number of posts and considerably increasing the workload of those who remained, without support or compensation. Of course, some parts of this text have been able to draw our attention to the fact that we share its objectives: equality between women and men, better consideration of disability, the integration of the Commission on the Ethics of the Civil Service in the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life. We have discovered in committee the existence of a debate within the majority on the allocation of a precarious premium to public service contractors. This is a first step, and we see how difficult you are to get this reform, which is opposed by the nine trade union organisations. We must start to give up some advantages, though, if we are to stop seeing only disadvantages in this reform. Why, however, would the holders of a CSD of less than one year be the only ones to receive this bonus? We learned from the press – and not in the Chamber – that the Secretary of State promised a two-time bonus to the SMIC. Why not two and a half times? Why the one-year limit? We understand that, as a result of the development of the project's CSD, you wanted to set a limit to the acceptability. The article in Les Échos mentions 400 million euros, which is already a lot for this Government! Put yourself in his place! He's already had to give up 10 billion, maybe seven more. The bill should not be too heavy, because it could have the worst effect on the debt figure, whose ears are being rebuffed morning, noon and evening. The fight against discrimination shows another inconsistency, linked to the limitation of the position of trade union organisations in the public service and to the increase in the number of contract workers, which increases the risk of arbitrariness. As long as the remuneration of a contractor can be freely determined, the risks of on-board effects are real, to the detriment of women. This is already the case in the private sector where you want to transpose the worst provisions to the public. Indeed, your text is only a vulgar copy-paste of orders relating to the reform of the labour code at the beginning of your quinquennium. For ease, for lack of new ideas, you take back the old ones. It is true that we must go quickly and be effective: to reduce the number of civil servants and contract workers serving consumers. Thus, you propose to merge the trade union bodies, the technical committees and the CHSCT into a future social administration committee. The private experience has not borne the desired fruit. On the other hand, the risk, which we have denounced, of weakening the ability of employees to be represented and heard is very real. In this case, the result has not been delayed! Such a proposal is a sign of genuine contempt for the current public service. How many technical committees end without having exhausted the agenda at 20 hours, or even later, having started from nine in the morning, while the CHSCT meets in parallel around a specific agenda? In addition, in the CHSCT itself, watch committees bring together the various trade union organisations and representatives of the administration to deal with each subject. However, you claim to merge these bodies into a single body in order, in your words, to promote transversality and horizontality, to favour a global vision. In your opinion, why did we create these bodies? To compensate, precisely, for a vision too far from the ground by giving itself the time to analyse the particular situations of the agents concerned. This will lead to aggravation of the most fragile situation and to the strengthening of injustices. With regard to conventional breakdown, it is a legal novelty for civil servants, at least baroque. I do not know what the Constitutional Council will think, but this text, like the work orders, seems to pursue an abscontic objective. While the Labour Code Reform Ordinances tended to "facilitate dismissal in order to improve hiring", the aim of the Act was to set aside civil servants to guarantee the status. This concept is all the more strange given that there are very many contractors in the three public functions: 18%, of which 70% are short contract CDDs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u101	Very short!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u102	I don't see what you want to improve by making the situation even worse. You are also planning to reduce the role of Joint Administrative Committees in individual decisions. Laurence Vichnievsky stated earlier that, in 90% of the cases – in your opinion, 92%, Mr. Secretary of State – the decision does not pose a problem, whether it is a transfer, a promotion or any other subject. But it is precisely thanks to a global view of the situation that we can focus on the remaining 8%, analyse each case and try to answer it, for example by juggling between the departure of one and the mutation of the other. On the other hand, if you definitively confirm the decisions in favour of the agent, from the point of view of administration at least, what room will be left for you to respond to the remaining 8% that will challenge the decision? You prevent any global and collective discussion. It is through an overall vision that individual cases can be resolved. What will those responsible for human resources do then? They will organize informal CAPs, quite simply, before making their decisions. They will consult the unions, without a framework. They will not be able to deal with this type of problem otherwise. How can you imagine for a moment that the Director of Human Resources will make these decisions, from the top of his ivory tower, by applying collectively discussed management lines to establish a fine scale? You're dreaming! This is not how the administration works, neither today nor tomorrow. People, in one way or another, will seek to bypass your device and engage in discussions that you have removed, alas in the most total chaos – not to mention the inevitable increase in litigation. If there is a mobility to play at the moment, it is to the legal services! You, Mr Secretary of State, are trying to convince us that this reform does not sign the end of the statute, you are not deceiving anyone. Your goal, I will keep repeating throughout this week, is indeed to marginalize the status of the public service, which you intend to gradually extinguish. You are not ambitious enough – or honest – to move everyone to contractual status. Yet, this radical step would greatly simplify the lives of human resources managers. I am still looking at how it will be easier for them to manage, tomorrow, contractors, CSDs, CDIs, incumbent officials, former contract holders, former contract holders who have become contract holders, different grids. I can't imagine the gas plant it'll be! Even today, contractors are very poorly managed within the public service. Your goal, let's not hide it, is to move from a career public service to an employment public service. Tomorrow it will be a matter of serving an employer, not of fulfilling a public service mission. You want docile staff at the service of an employer. Yet the public service draws its strength from the continuity of loyal people who, from one government to another, be it local or national, serve the general interest. Of course, they apply decisions fairly, but above all they have a fine knowledge of their service that is used in decision-making. We can criticise the inertia of the senior public service, detract from those senior public servants who would lead in the place of ministers. For my part, I refuse to throw the stone at senior officials, because I believe that only the lack of will on the part of the ministers is at stake. The next ones to be replaced by contractors, as a result of this legislation, which authorizes the recruitment of contractors to permanent posts, normally filled on competitive basis, will be managerial posts. The President of the Republic was formal: he wanted to be able to confirm or not all the directors of central administration, according to their loyalty to the program of the Republic in progress. It is certain that, a priori, it is easier for senior officials who run an administration – even if I believe in their loyalty – to apply the President's and the Government's programme if they approve it. Finally, the President of the Republic saw that the matter was a little complicated, that a certain resistance was opposed to him within the pool of officials, so that he could not find his account. And then he said: "In fact, the best thing would be to place the buddies, those who made me elect, those who have long held the position of manager in large companies, those profitable companies that make the country succeed and release the energies! » These, today, do not want to work in the administration, because they should do so at the rate of the administration and according to the rules of the administration, the freezing of the point of index, the continuity of the public service, the duty of neutrality or independence! What an embarrassment! A contract is much simpler: you can negotiate your remuneration, compete with the candidates, compare three or four CVs before choosing the one we had planned! That's the whole problem. Slippers are evoked, high-ranking officials are criminalized, passing from public to private, returning to the public and returning to the private sector. But we do not have the opposite example, that of people who, coming from the private sector, pass through the public before returning to the private sector! In short, slippering requires first to enter a competition, to pass the ENA. From now on, we can practice slippering backwards: it's amazing! In fact, it was not fair, for the friends who did not pass the contest, not to be able to take advantage of the system, not to be able to take the controls at the precise moment when the long-awaited charismatic leader arrives in power! I'm telling the heads of headquarters: the time has come to mobilize you. It's your turn to go to the pan! To date, this has been reserved only for categories B and C. We outsourced the services, it was reputed to be good management, and we said to ourselves: "Anyhow, where I am, I risk nothing, nothing will ever happen to me! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proof that, when one does not defend the idea of public service, one is the next to go to the mill. Ladies and gentlemen, senior officials, it is therefore time to mobilize you. In the end, the various measures that you are proposing are intended, neither more nor less, only to fire officials: in addition to the conventional breakdown, which I have mentioned, we can mention, in this respect, this invention of ex officio secondment. So far, a staff member could be seconded to the private sector. This is the case, moreover, of a number of parliamentary collaborators, who, under contract under private law, can then return to their administration. It's their choice. But in this case, the detachment will be ex officio. "And if you don't like it," he is told, "you can end your secondment anyway and return to your original administration, subject to three months' notice." But if the agent has been seconded ex officio, it is precisely that his position no longer exists! What will he do, especially in the territorial civil service? Return to the management centre until a position is proposed? Is this the public 'new management', taking into account the agent's desire for mobility? No: it is an additional violence that is inflicted on him, on the sole ground that it is necessary to get rid of officials. Staff members under the Staff Regulations will gradually be placarded, and the most attractive posts, open to competition for contract workers. Rather, the status should be put at the heart of the system, strengthened to adapt it to the needs of users of public services. We have also tabled amendments aimed at strengthening trade union and social rights and giving users decision-making power in public services. They may need to be integrated into the equation in order to irrigate the public service, to make it as responsive as possible to the needs of citizens, to give a concrete translation of the principle of mutability. Other amendments, tabled by us, are aimed at capping the use of contract workers and promoting tenure. This is a measure to simplify administrative management: ownership! We'd end up thinking it's a big word. But I know at least one public administrative institution that must say to itself: "My God, how are we going to do with this civil service reform text, we who are in the process of granting CROUS workers the status of full civil servant? Damn it," he must say to himself, "we're a little against the current! » In fact, under the terms of the text we are discussing, it will be possible, in establishments under the jurisdiction of the State civil service, to recruit contractors from top to bottom, from category A to category C! It was neither the right tempo nor the right niche... These, in any case, will no doubt disgust them from joining the public service by making them look for a contractual status that offers much more flexibility and a much better remuneration: this is the reality. I am a little longer than expected, and take the opportunity, Mr Secretary of State, to ask you directly about hourly harmonization measures. Earlier, you called on the members of the Republicans Group, sometimes accusing them of defending the public service, sometimes advocating its liberalisation, reminding them that their programme provided for the abolition of 500,000 posts, when you intend to stick to 120,000. To hear you, they play on ambiguities and contradictions. In this regard, I would like to address Olivier Dussopt from 2007 to 2017. In the commune of Annonay, of which he was then mayor, an agent with fifteen years of service benefited from an annual hourly scheme of 1515 hours, instead of 1607. This measure, in favour of seniority, must undoubtedly have just reasons; Moreover, the mayor of Annonay of the time refused to apply the day of solidarity, established by the right, accusing him of being unjust and inappropriate. No doubt he was right; But what does the one who was mayor of Annonay from 2007 to 2017 say to the Secretary of State today? How does he defend himself against a secretary of state who explains to him that we have to go back to 1607 hours? I would like to have the answer to this internal contradiction, or perhaps to this evolution of the mayor who became a member of the Government and passed, in a way, from left to right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u103	It's a translation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u104	In the package of reforms contained in the text, there is one which clearly goes against the general interest: that of training, in any case as described – since we do not know the exact content of the order to which it will be subject. For example, you plan to reduce the contribution paid by territorial employers to the CNFPT – National Centre for the Territorial Public Service – from 0.9% to 0.2% or 0.3%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u105	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u106	I have my sources, Secretary of State, in this case all the unions of the CNFPT.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u107	They're wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u108	There you go! All right! So the contribution rate will be maintained at 0.9%? The CNFPT will not become a public industrial and commercial establishment? Will it not be put in competition with the other training bodies? If I'm wrong, it's very good news. I will also announce to those interested, who may be listening to us tonight, that the problem is resolved. No attack on the CNFPT: so much the better! But be careful, Secretary of State: I'll take your word! Why are mobility increasingly difficult in the public service? It's not complicated: as you reduce the number of positions, as you do not replace retirements, you necessarily restrict mobility opportunities! How to do this, if a position to which one wanted to apply is abolished as soon as the one who held it retires? Obviously, there's not much left to get under the tooth: it sclerosis the whole system. Mobility becomes possible when we create services, when we deploy the administration, the public service! The best measure for mobility is therefore to hire civil servants, to open posts. That's when you release the energies, in a way. Instead of abolishing 120,000 posts, hire 120,000 civil servants! In my opinion, a few thousand more officials to fight tax evasion, for example, it wouldn't hurt. Finally, this logical reform is in line with successive anti-staff waves: privatization, disorganization, rationalization, mutualization, RGPP, MAP, CAP 22. You add the worksite CDD; One wonders why, moreover, you did not make it a CDI – but, finally, the process has the merit of honesty. These project contracts will only increase the precariousness of public officials. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] To complete this work, you plan to continue to freeze the point of index, while the officials have already made so much effort. According to the Institut Montaigne, quoted earlier by a colleague, over the last ten years public servants have lost 10% of purchasing power! That is the reality: they contribute to debt relief, to the general interest. And the 57 billion of CAC40, what are they contributing to? And the "first of cordaeus", to what do they contribute, apart from the reconstruction of Notre-Dame, under the cover of a 90% defiscalization? Perhaps it would be time in that country to share in order to strengthen the civil service and defend the civil servants who make up it, for that, in essence, is what brings the general interest to life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u109	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u110	What are we talking about today? First of all, there is the question of the people, of the people in their daily lives; Public services are, first and foremost, an essential component of life in modern society, a society in which every citizen must have the basic means to form an interdependent relationship with others. That is what enables him to have the social conditions of his independence, and hence his dignity. This is what Léon Bourgeois, under the Third Republic, called the "society of likes". This cannot result from the addition of particular interests, nor from their competition: both inevitably lead to the rejection of the other and the exacerbation of conflicts. This "society of others" requires, on the contrary, the development of systems of solidarity, effective access to rights, the taking over of the general interest and common goods, which are not part of market and competition rules; It requires systems that, as Alain Leprest sang, escape from the "money, all-fric, the gossip, the Talbins." This is precisely what public services are. And it can be seen that almost everywhere in the world there are such systems, certainly more or less developed and structured: systems which, in any case, meet these criteria and objectives. Public services are also a shield against crises by their role as a social shock absorber, a role reinforced by our social protection system. For example, in 2008 they supported public employment and limited the explosion of inequalities by ensuring forms of redistribution through the services provided, in the fields of education, health or transport. In doing so, everyone recognizes that they have limited the consequences of the crisis in our country. Contrary to what the thurifers of liberalism feel, not only are public services not an outdated old-fashioned, but they condition, more than ever, the future of modern society, where the need for it will only grow. Globalization, in fact, raises the awareness that there are common goods, and it increases the requirement to direct a number of activities according to a general interest. The economic, social and environmental crisis that we are experiencing shows the impasse of all liberals and highlights the need for regulation and the need for democratic ownership of common goods. What are we talking about today? There is also talk of the future of one in five employees, of 5.5 million civil servants, staff of public bodies recruited on the basis of public law, of which 1.3 million are contract workers, i.e. one in five civil servants. These civil servants are distributed across the three sides of the civil service: 2.4 million in the state civil service, 1.9 million in the territorial civil service and 1.2 million in the hospital civil service. It is not surprising, therefore, that everyone has a relative, a friend, a relationship around himself who is a public service officer. However, France is not "over-administered". It is simply in the middle of developed countries, as demonstrated by a recent study by France Strategy: there are 89 public officials per 1,000 inhabitants, far behind Scandinavian countries, behind Canada and just ahead of the United Kingdom. In reality, it is not the size of the workforce that distinguishes France from other countries, but the fact that the agents are protected by law, within the framework of a statute that guarantees a neutral and integrated administration. As for the commitment of the French to their public services and to the public service, it remains strong, despite the speech of all those who continue to proclaim the imminent death of the French social model, despite the recurrent pontiffs on the archaism that would characterize the public service and the so-called privileges that civil servants would have, despite the simplifying international comparisons about the number of these ones – despite, I would also say, taking the words of Jean Jaurès, "the imbecile applause and the fanatical hues" of those and those who suffer, as here, "the law of triumphant lie". What are we talking about today? It is above all a question of the general interest, at the heart of the concept of public service. The consideration of the general interest is very old in our history. "The most honourable thing is to serve the public and be useful to many," Montaigne wrote. Under the Old Regime, it was the common good that the king had the task of defending for his people. Then comes the common utility, mentioned in article 1 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 1789: "Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions can only be based on common utility. Article 17 refers to a similar concept, that of "public necessity". It is in the general interest that relations between the State and society, particularly the French civil service, can be founded in law, a result of a multi-severe process. It was originally considered that there was a public service when there was a mission of general interest – which is defined by democratic political debate, therefore by law – implemented by a legal person governed by public law. The public service had to be covered by taxation and not by prices, and had to have prerogatives relating to its prominent function. Of course, the interpenetration between the public and the private sector, in particular through governance and concession, has been accompanied by an extension of the scope of public service and its growing heterogeneity. Moreover, by retaining the concept of economic service of general interest – SGEI – the European Union has exacerbated the contradictions, stressing the French exception to the public service. It is within this general framework that the defence of the civil service and its statutes should be established. What are we talking about today? The main issue is the general status of civil servants. After the French Revolution removed the privileges and the verality of the charges, the idea of a status of civil servants was not imposed from the outset. At the end of the 19th century, civil servants were governed by disparate rules. Until the Second World War, the main purpose of the draft statutes was to translate the hierarchical principle of obedience of civil servants into strict rules. However, important rights have been won over time. The Act of 19 October 1946 relating to the general status of civil servants can be regarded as one of the major democratic and progressive texts of the aftermath of the Second World War. Its elaboration, due to the initiative of General de Gaulle, will be essentially the result of a work carried out under the impetus of Maurice Thorez, then Minister of State for the Civil Service. Then, in 1982 and 1983, it was the considerable extension of the statutory field, desired by another communist: the minister of the civil service and administrative reforms Anicet Le Pors. This new advance was based on the republican principles defining the French concept of the public service. Thanks to its "three sides", it respected the legal and professional specificities of the various categories concerned, which make our public services rich. The reform, which led to greater heterogeneity among all the officials concerned, ensured the unity of the civil service on the basis of three principles. First of all, the principle of equality, by reference to article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789, which provides that all citizens can access public employment on the basis of the appreciation of their " virtues" and " talents", that is to say, their "capacity" – I insist on these words. This has resulted in the rule that it is through the competition that we enter the public service, with the spirit of the competition to remain present throughout the career and to be implemented in a manner that is appropriate throughout the career. Secondly, the principle of the official's independence from both political and administrative arbitrariness. This independence is guaranteed by the so-called career system, in which the grade is owned by the official, and separated from the employment which is at the disposal of the administration. Finally, the principle of responsibility, which gives the official full rights of citizens. Its source is section 15 of the Bill of Rights of 1789, which states that each public official is accountable to his or her administration. This view of the civil servant-citizen is opposed to that of the civil servant-subject according to which "the civil servant is a man of silence, he serves, he works and he keeps silent." It is therefore on these three principles that the three-sided public service was built, both unified and respectful of differences. Since then, the system completed between 1983 and 1986 has resisted the multiple attacks against it – there are 225 legislative amendments in 30 years, for most attempts to unblock it. What are we talking about today? We are talking about a real counter-revolutionary reform project that contravenes the main principles of our public service. The contract is opposed to the statute. However, if the official occupies a statutory and non-contractual position, it is precisely because he is at the service of the general interest defined by law and regulation. By extending the recruitment of public officials by contract, this reform runs counter to recruitment through competitive examinations and thus to the principle of equality. The profession is opposed to the function. The notion of trade is not neutral in terms of whether the activities to which it applies are governed by the contract or by a public service. In the market economy, the trade is the basic data for the production of goods and services. But the objective of your "transformation" of the public service, Mr. Secretary of State, is the break-up of functions into fragmented and unstable components in order to entrust them to contractors performing specific missions, which is intended to replace a public service of employment, subject to a managerial ideology, a career public service that escapes arbitrariness and clientelism. This change is contrary to the principle of independence. The individualisation of performance is opposed to the search for social efficiency. No one has ever disputed that merit, a highly republican notion, is to be taken into consideration when assessing public servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u111	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u112	But, in the liberal doxa, the evocation of merit is more aimed at making them guilty than at making their action on the ground more effective. In reality, it calls into question the characteristics of the French conception of the public service: the functional organization in the body, the concept of collective work, the solidarity of workers in the public service. In contrast to these traits, the goal-driven approach to your project, the competition of agents and the "merit" remuneration are a lure that carries great dangers and far from ensuring efficiency. There is no shortage of examples. What is the main issue today? Or rather: what is the name of this reform? It is the "great statutory evening" desired by the President of the Republic, a great evening which has as its unconvinced objective to complete the reform of the Labour Code undertaken by the government of Manuel Valls and imposing as a major social reference the individual contract of private law, negotiated voluntarily at the lowest of the hierarchy of norms. There was still a need to generalize its application, both in the public and in the private sector. This is what this bill is implementing, in the form of this great evening dressed in pragmatism that I will call destructive. For the question is not whether to evolve or not, but whether the French conception of the public service is a continuous creation, in the service of democracy and social efficiency, and that it is appropriate, rather than destroying it, to adapt constantly to the needs of the population, to the evolution of technology and to our openness to the world. For the necessary adaptation does not mean a break in the general status of civil servants, a major asset for social progress, economic efficiency and political democracy in society as a whole. With extensive public property and tax-funded, the public service protects the activities it separates from commercialization. In the service of the general interest, it contributes to the formation of citizenship, by affirming the principle of equality within it as well as at the service of the population and by the requirement of responsibility at all levels. By the same token, it is an essential component of the republican pact; It is also the mark of a civilization. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this "great statutory evening" turns its back on the French conception of the public service. It is counterproductive and will not allow the rationalisation and improvement of public action geared towards the general interest. It is also contrary to Republican morality, which gives primacy to the public interest over particular interests and affirms the principle of equality and the ethics of responsible citizenship. In fact, the big debate did not make it a priority, simply because the French population is committed to the public service and considers the public officials. As for trade union organisations, they are all opposed to the project, regardless of their sensitivity. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] This "great statutory evening" is a serious mistake, a historical mistake. He must be challenged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u113	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u114	Secretary of State, you are defending a difficult text on the civil service in the wake of the great debate in the country following the yellow vest movement. Beyond this context, let us say honestly, the question is often asked about the effectiveness of public functions, particularly our local and regional authorities, which make up the public service alongside the hospital and the state. The remoteness of public services is one of the reasons for frequent criticism and disaffection with our officials. The waves of hospital closures and maternity wards, in particular, that we have experienced in recent weeks and months have only shed a little salt on painfully felt wounds. It is not for me to stigmatize public office, on the contrary. But it must be admitted that, if we need civil servants, this does not always mean more civil servants; Rather, it means that we need better. I remember a minister from the previous quinquennium who explained to us that more officials were needed to make things better in the country; Two years later, still in the government, but having changed ministerial responsibility to take over the finances, he told us that it was not because public spending was increasing that the country's situation was improving. That minister was Michel Sapin. We need officials, it's obvious: who imagines a country without policemen, without gendarmes, without soldiers – I have a particular thought for those who have just fallen into the field of honour – without nurses in hospitals, without firefighters, without teachers in public schools, without territorial agents? How to clear snow at four o'clock in the morning when thirty centimetres of snow fell into the night?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u116	How do we turn on the boiler at the public school that stopped at night? When we were lucky enough to serve as mayor – this is your case, Mr. Secretary of State – we know what we owe to public servants and what we can ask them to do. We know we can mobilize them. Civil servants therefore play an indispensable role. However, because of my political culture and the values that I deeply believe in, I also know that certain tasks performed by public servants could very well be entrusted to the private sector. Let us stop opposing each other and see how, in a number of areas, we can move forward, be more effective and ensure that public action is seen positively by our fellow citizens. Another principle has been mentioned, notably by Boris Vallaud and André Chassaigne: it is the neutrality of the public service. As Special Rapporteur of the "Public Authorities" mission, I have the honour to oversee the budget of the National Assembly, the Senate, the Constitutional Council or the Elysée. In my last report, I made it clear that being a public servant is also a principle of neutrality. I say this again forcefully, because this principle is at the heart of our public office and of the Republican pact. For those who are lucky enough to be civil servants and those who are served by civil servants, this is a very important principle. You yourself said, Mr. Secretary of State, that this bill was expected. During the election campaign, the President of the Republic had promised 120,000 abolitions of posts – other candidates had even promised 250,000 or a little more. In any case, it is certain that we could not maintain our current model. Then the great debate passed through, and the President of the Republic returned to his promise. This has at least the merit of removing a contradiction, because we were told that of the 120,000 job cuts, 50000 should concern the state and 70000 local and regional authorities, who would only have to take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u117	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u118	However, we are all committed to the free administration of local and regional authorities – I know that you are particularly committed, Mr Secretary of State. You will agree that these words were hurtful to our communities, which deserve to be supported. That has already been said, France has just over 5.5 million civil servants, spread across the three sides of the civil service. On the other hand, let us look at things honestly: our country is the champion of public spending. Other countries have changed, and service to citizens is at least as good as it is at home. [[Smile]] I have not forgotten Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium, marked by the RGPP: it was then a question of abolishing 85,000 positions in the public service and of devoting half of the savings thus made to increasing the purchasing power of public servants. However, we have bit our fingers at some abolitions of posts, particularly in the gendarmerie, the police and the defence. On the other hand, during François Hollande's quinquennium, we were told every Tuesday and Wednesday that it was necessary to create civil servants' posts for the service to improve. Thus, 50,000 posts have been created in national education. However, while ecology was already considered a priority, the number of staff in the Ministry of Ecological Transition has never fallen as much as in the previous quinquennium – MPs with the ecological fibre know that very well. I have the numbers, ladies and gentlemen, and I have them in all letters, as a famous comedian used to say. I'll give them to you if you doubt it. So we knew the RGPP, then the MAP. Unfortunately, the bill we are considering tonight is a little in that line. It is clear that it is an accounting logic that led to the drafting of this text. I say it with great sincerity: we must transform our public service, better distribute public servants in the field and make public service careers more attractive. In my department of Eure-et-Loir, which is not so far from here, forty posts are vacant in the direction of the territories. Similarly, the Colonel Commander of the Department's gendarmerie group informed me that he had fifty vacant posts. At the Châteaudun detention centre, 20 per cent of the posts are vacant. We must ask ourselves the reasons for all this vacation. It is not only necessary to make budgetary savings, to remove 120000 or 50,000 posts and to send all these figures to figure... The important thing is to increase the effectiveness of the public service and to empower its officers to carry out their mission in good conditions. To do this, we need to change paradigms. First of all, we must stop the movement of recentralisation – I believe the Government has heard it. We cannot put all the means in the prefectural cities and reduce the number of sub-prefectures to the congruous portion. It is not enough to close cash, even if it is true that digitisation and the deployment of the Internet are making a difference. That said, neither can we stay in a completely frozen system. It is not a question of opposing the progressives and the supporters of immobilism. The missions are evolving, but we must adopt a simple and clear principle: our citizens are committed to community services. For us, the Secretary of State, the return of public services to the territories requires, first of all, a new act of decentralization. After the big debate, everyone is calling for more decentralization – I would remind you that this movement was launched in 1981 and that several governments subsequently passed other decentralization laws. More decentralization is more power in the territories. It means trusting local actors. The state can no longer govern everything since Paris, as it does too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u119	It's no longer possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u120	The recentralization that we have been witnessing for two years has been rampant: it has only accelerated. To your willingness to transform the public service, which I have understood correctly, Mr. Secretary of State, and for which you are very brave, we must therefore add this movement of decentralization, which is expected. What will be its contours? Everyone, at one point or another, lamented the existence of duplicates, the coexistence of two, three or four decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u121	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u122	We have talked about the European funds and about the 900 million euros France is sending back to Brussels. When are we going to ensure that the payers are no longer solely agents of the State and that the payment of the aid goes under the control of the regions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u124	I could multiply the examples. Let us be honest: we know very well that some of these rigidities are very expensive. Within the Libertés et territoires group, we are very committed to the differentiation of territories – Paul Molac and Michel Castellani, present in our Chamber, will not say the opposite. Uniformity doesn't make sense. Let's give local authorities a little flexibility, respecting the Republican framework and certain rules – it's not about letting them do everything and anything – but let's let the actors on the ground take initiatives! Let's set up experiments! Let them have the capacity to respond to the deep aspirations of the territories! Deconcentration must be adapted to the needs of the territories. I believe the Government has heard the message, but I repeat: most government services cannot be concentrated in prefectural cities. This morning, we again learned that officials from the State civil service continue to be removed from the departments to serve them in the regions. However, these large regions can have up to 13 departments. The same applies to the rectorates: as I said to Jean-Michel Blanquer, the rectorate services are often located in the regional metropolis, in the capital of the great region, and 500 kilometres can separate these rectorates from the sub-prefectures or schools under their authority. That's not possible! On the other hand, I was lucky enough to have territorial officials under my responsibility, and I was able to see how many generous men and women are in the public service, who give time, who want to train, progress, embrace careers and benefit from mobility. The partitioning of public functions reminds me of a track of athletics: when you cross a corridor, you are disqualified. How difficult it is to move from the hospital public service to the state public service or go for a ride in the territorial public service! Our oldest colleagues probably remember that a few years ago we transferred 30,000 kilometres of national roads to the departments, and that this required a division of the departments of the departmental departments of equipment, the DDEs: there was then a problem of status for state officials who would naturally pass under the authority of the departmental councils. For two or three years, it was psychosis! We need to simplify. A hospital director must be able to become general manager of the services of a large city before moving into the central or devolved government. We need to create living bridges. Let's get the agents out of their hallway! Let's make sure they can thrive on another mission, which will value them! I think André Chassaigne would agree to allow officials to discover new jobs, to progress, to train, but also to be better paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u125	By remaining public servants!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u126	Another important topic for us is strengthening ethics for greater exemplaryness, particularly in the senior public service. That must be one of our major concerns. While parliamentarians have seen their activities framed, especially since the vote on the law for confidence in public life – I would have liked us to go further on a number of topics – we must also strengthen the fight against conflicts of interest among very high-ranking officials. We all have some examples in mind that we have heard of in recent months. Great books have taught us that former cabinet directors of ministers have rushed to the boards of directors of large corporations six months, one year or eighteen months after the end of their duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u127	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u128	We can't go on like this. One cannot ask for an example and not ask for it from one another. This is not a collective challenge: I simply point out that the duty of exemplarity is incumbent upon all, a fortiori on senior officials who have special responsibilities and must have the principle of body neutrality. That is part of the republican principles. I have also tabled an amendment to prohibit the cumulation of public service retirement allowances with the exercise of a public mission. While the revenues of parliamentarians are capped, I do not see why a very senior official performing another function would escape any cap.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u129	That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u130	Ethics applies to everyone! What is good for some must also be good for others. I therefore support the merger of the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life and the Public Service Ethics Committee. It seems to me important to move forward on this subject with all the parliamentary groups – this is an appeal from the Freedom and Territory Group. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform must clarify and respond to the expectations of public officials and our fellow citizens. Which public service do we want? What perimeter is she supposed to have? Who does what? Merit is not a big word, Mr Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u131	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u132	I have been mayor, and I have seen how Category C officials are paid – their revenues have even been capped in the last four years, during the five-year period of Mr. In order to advance them, mayors must write to the territorial civil service management centre, but how many officers climb an additional step? That is the question on the ground, on a daily basis. This discourages our fellow citizens and explains why they are no longer part of the territorial civil service, the state civil service or the hospital civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u133	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u134	Do you know the salary for hiring a nurse or a massage therapist in the hospital, or a technical agent in a departmental council? These are very important questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u135	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u136	Also, merit is not a big word.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u137	We think so too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u138	As you have understood, one of the structural issues in our debate is to clarify the organization of the public service in the territories. This raises the question of the powers to be assumed by the State and those to be exercised by local and regional authorities. Who does what? Perhaps you will enlighten us, Mr Secretary of State, in the answer you are going to give us, because this question is intimately linked to the text that you are defending. The crisis of the yellow vests is, moreover, indicative of the confusion that prevails with regard to the role of each person. I'm going to contract recruitment. On this point, I hope that we will try to get off the beaten track. Isn't the state already employing contract workers? A former minister of the public service, François Sauvadet, for whom I have a particular thought, had, moreover, allowed the most precarious contractors to finally gain the status of CDI. At the time, he had the courage to have this valorisation voted, as did Pascal Brindeau, who was the rapporteur of the text. But I know, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are very familiar with this case. Project contracts are a good idea. They are not characterized by absolute precariousness: you have not escaped, Mr. Secretary of State, that these CDI "project contracts" closely resemble the interim CDI proposed in the company. They give security to those who benefit from it, who can obtain a loan to buy a car or a dwelling. These project contracts can be very useful to small communities. An agglomeration of 200,000 inhabitants does not take any risk, but when a commune of 2,800 inhabitants like the one I managed for 18 years decides to build a school, the works last four years, but nothing says that after these four years, the community will always have the possibility to pay the agents concerned. On the other hand, during these four years, I will be able to propose an interim project CDD...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u139	It's a CDD!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u140	This is much more secure than what the state does: all political sensitivities combined, contract workers have been used and some contracts have been made up. It is well known how this happens in ministerial offices, in prefectures or in central administration. Plethora of contractors were hired at one time or another.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u141	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u142	We must recognize it and try to be pragmatic. However, we consider that your text does not provide sufficient guarantees to contractors hired on the basis of the project contract you are proposing, even if it provides flexibility to the public employer. We shall therefore table amendments to strengthen these guarantees. We are in favour of rationalising social dialogue for more responsiveness and efficiency, and of the principle of creating a single forum, but we expect concrete counterpart to this merger. While the intermediate bodies have been a little mistreated, I know that you wanted to reconnect the threads of dialogue. I would like to acknowledge that this evening, because it is only with the unions of civil servants, regardless of their public office, that we will be able to restore opportunities for public officials. It is not just a question of defending the protection of a status, but of showing what course you want to give them. We also consider it important to take digital conversion into account. We have tabled an amendment on digital training for all public servants. Let me give you an example of what I am currently experiencing. Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education and Youth, hoped that all children would be enrolled at the age of three. This is almost already the case everywhere, but the measure will allow an additional 20,000 or 30,000 children to attend school. However, in France we have a twofold difficulty: one relates to language proficiency and the other to digital literacy. Our children start learning languages too late. The level of training of the French is much lower than that of our neighbours. But how do you want to teach a living language to three or four-year-olds if there is no one to teach them? This training is not provided to teachers themselves during their course. It's the same for digital. We need to train our public service in the digital tools that revolutionize working methods. In my commune, we have the chance to have a service house for the public, in which a public official intervenes once every fortnight. For the twenty-five or thirty people who then use this service, it is a real revolution. We must do the same in many areas, such as complaints to the gendarmerie, which should be registered online. The question will no longer be whether the gendarmerie is closed. We need to evolve, and it will only be digital. If the digital revolution enters our everyday life, we will not suffer it, we will accompany it and we will find it a number of benefits. The Libertés et Territoires Group will position itself according to which will be reserved for its amendments on the project contract, on the training of officials, on remuneration or on ethics. We are committed to public service, and we believe that we must stop barring the public and the private. We have done too much for health, and now we see where this has led us in terms of medical desertification and access to care, because this situation is, in part, the consequence of this antagonism between public and private, between the hospital and the private practice. Let's not start these mistakes again! [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] It is up to us to create a 21st century public service that is modern, attractive, useful, independent and neutral, because we need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u143	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u144	In our country, every day 5 million women and men operate our administrations, schools, police stations, hospitals, regions, departments and municipalities. Whether they are public service holders or contract holders, they serve the public interest to ensure the functioning of our public services, to ensure our safety, to transmit knowledge, to treat and protect those in need, to sustain our diplomacy. Their skills are not to be demonstrated. Their loyalty is not to be questioned. Their commitment to the values of the Republic is inalienable. We all know that. This bill is made for these women and men. This bill strengthens our public service, contrary to what we heard here or there tonight. By the same token, it strengthens the functioning of our public services throughout the territory. As you pointed out, Minister, the laws that affect the public service are rare, valuable and complementary. This bill is a continuation of the 1946, 1983 and 1984 Acts that organize our public service. It does not call into question the main principles that have been defined by these texts, but it does address the concerns and difficulties that the agents, concerns and difficulties that they are bringing to our attention today. Too often, they regret the red tape that hinders their work and career paths – Philippe Vigier mentioned the subject a moment ago. The purpose of this law is to restore meaning to their missions and to make their personal journeys more fluid. This law also provides responses to public employers who, more and more often, and for many years, have expressed their difficulties in forming their teams, recruiting profiles with special or rare skills to ensure the proper functioning of public services in all our territories. Is it acceptable to wait more than a year to fill certain voltage positions? Is it normal to see talent going to the private sector without being able to fight to keep them in the public service? No, it's not normal, at least not for us: for us, this is no longer acceptable. The bill opens up the possibility of using contractors, including management functions. It proposes to lift administrative burdens in order to promote occupational mobility within and between the public service. We do not take these measures out of the will to weaken the public service, but, on the contrary, because we believe in a more attractive and responsive public service, because we have the ambition to improve the functioning of public services in all of our territories. Finally, this bill allows our public service to take into account the issues of our time. It reorganises the social dialogue in order to reposition it on strategic issues of organization of work and working conditions. It also strengthens equality between women and men and helps to combat gender-based and sexual violence in the workplace. That is the spirit of this bill, which is being supported with strength and conviction by the Republic Group. The discussion in committee strengthened it. Hand in hand with the Government and with you, Secretary of State, we have deepened the competences of the social councils on equality between women and men and the management of the issues posed by digital for the organisation of work, we have better framed the definition of the remuneration of contract workers, merged the ethics commission and the HATVP – on this subject, I would like to commend the work of Fabien Matras –, advanced the transparency on the salaries of the best paid agents and supervised the remuneration of the leaders of the independent administrative authorities. We will continue this work in the coming days, in particular by improving the fight against the precariousness of contract workers, through the creation of a precarious premium of 10% of the remuneration for CSDs of less than one year. This is not a small step forward, but an important victory as the existence of an imbalance between the public and private sectors has so far remained incomprehensible. On this point, I would like to pay tribute to the work done by our rapporteur, Émilie Chalas and Secretary of State Olivier Dussopt. We will also continue this work of improvement by enabling the Government to create a code for the civil service, by clarifying the modalities for the operation of the new high authority dedicated to the transparency of public life and ethics, and by further developing the rules of transparency applicable to the highest salaries of the civil service and those of the independent administrative authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as in committee, the debates before us look rich and exciting. I hope that we will work together to modernize the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u145	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u146	While it is almost one hour in the morning, we must really be passionate about resisting, and there are still many of us in the Chamber. The purpose of the bill before us is to transform our public service. It calls for many observations and criticisms on our part, both in terms of methodology and substance. Two words come to mind to characterize the method chosen: it is based on mistrust and it is deficient in its tools. It was built, indeed, on distrust. On the one hand, according to the representative trade union organisations – which are, I would remind you, an element of our democracy and which participate in the transparency of certain decisions – although there have been some 50 concertation meetings, they have not made it possible to engage in a genuine dialogue. On the other hand, on a number of points, the draft refers to ordinances, which the Socialist and related group regrets both in substance and in form. In substance, public and adversarial debate in our assembly is an element of ownership of the issues and provisions, while the use of orders contradicts the principle of discussion with all agents. In this case, important elements will be the subject of this authorization. Topics such as health and social protection, working conditions and training have thus emerged. In order to change the substantive status, it is essential elements of attractiveness that are excluded from a collective discussion. Finally, and again, as speeches speak of strengthening the rights of Parliament, the bill is being considered in an expedited manner, which we regret. What was to constitute the exception – the abolition of double reading in each assembly – becomes the norm, in contradiction with article 45 of the Constitution. The method chosen is also deficient in its tools. Looking at this, the impact study that accompanies the bill is deficient. As we know, in accordance with the presidential programme, the Government's mission is to reduce the number of public officials by 120,000. The bill is one of the tools to achieve this goal. The text is therefore based on the assumption that the public service is expensive, and that permanent jobs should be abolished and contract workers recruited. Surprisingly, the text does not offer any vision of the costs involved or of the effects expected both qualitatively and at the budgetary level of the measures involved. I have carefully reviewed the impact assessment and will cite only a few examples. With regard to Article 3, which aims to create a single body to develop an integrated vision of human resources policies and working conditions, the merger leads to the abolition of some 9,000 bodies in their existing form. The study indicates that "the impact of the reform will depend on a complex set of parameters that do not allow for a precise ex ante evaluation. She added that "a fine assessment of the reform will therefore be essential." With regard to Article 4, the study states that "the reform of CAPs should result in a positive budgetary impact on public finances, although difficult to measure". For Article 7 on the extension of the use of the contract for management jobs, the only reference cited in the impact assessment is the additional cost associated with outsourcing these recruitments: "For the territorial civil service, it should be made clear that, in the larger communities, the practice of using external contractors may already exist for the recruitment of civil servants or contractors in the main managerial positions. » Section 8 creates a new project CSD on all three sides of the public service. The study notes: "This measure results in some economic, financial and budgetary impacts, although they are difficult to quantify because they depend on how public employers take over this new type of contract. » These are just a few examples: the impact assessment contains many more. In other words, in order to paraphrase the Court of Auditors on the analysis of the four impact studies on draft laws concerning social ministries, which gave rise to a referral to the Prime Minister, the impact study accompanying the latter draft law appears absolutely "not enlightening". The absence of objective data has minimized the findings, objectives and effects of the proposed scheme clearly weakens the constitutional objective given to the impact assessment, i.e. to provide a rigorous demonstration of the need for a new text and the proportionality of the proposed legal response, in order to ensure a good balance between the objectives of general interest which inspire the reform and the consideration of the various particular interests involved. Let's get to the bottom now. This text is a draft of weakening the public service, a parametric law that ignores the stakes of qualification, quality of service and commitment, and thus of the confidence of the State in its own agents. It is a law of weakening the public service, I said, because it appears in many respects calculated in one of the only savings that are hoped for, but not yet known. Valérie Rabault, Boris Vallaud, myself and other colleagues wrote in a forum: "In France, public services are essential to our collective life: school, care, justice, transport, security or economic regulation. The principles underlying them remain modern: equality, continuity and adaptability. This central position is now challenged by the decline in public services. In many territories, they disappear. Their dematerialization, far from promoting a rapprochement of these services for users, is on the contrary keeping many publics away from access to rights. The scope of public services is also being revised downwards. In this context, public services would no longer be able to respond to their missions without the professionalism, integrity and dedication of the women and men who embody them on a daily basis. These women and men are primarily civil servants. In a 2016 France Strategy report, the so-called parametric reforms were criticized, those which are of special concern and intend to solve a problem, here the number of officials deemed too large and their status considered too rigid, explaining that a much broader issue will be resolved by adding additional provisions to additional provisions. On the merits, I would also like to bring to your attention the following thought: reforming the civil service means reforming a decisive element of the State, its permanent human resources and its administrative and technical skills, while it must be noted that the text deals only with the management of the civil service, with many provisions aimed only at abolishing permanent jobs and recruiting contractors, without bringing any vision – this has been mentioned several times here – of the meaning of the commitment of the State and its agents. To assume that the French-language model of the public service is inadequate without wondering why our citizens choose to work there and thus give meaning to their professional activity, often with low wages despite a high level of qualification, does not fail to question. There is a crisis in public services and it is not the new public management, promoted here, that will solve it. On the other hand, there is a real risk of destabilizing the system by not resolving the issue of attractiveness for the best, or of a career where service to others remains an element of commitment or of the quality of services. In addition to this lack of vision, there is the problem of provisions that undermine the values and principles of public service. I could take as an example Article 4, which aims at the recomposition of social dialogue. But without going into the details, since we will have the opportunity to come back to it in more detail, I will say a word about Article 16, on the institutionalization of the Commission on the Ethics of the Civil Service with the High Authority on the Transparency of Public Life: there is nothing in its original version about limiting the flow of information between the high civil service and large private companies, which seems paradoxical to me when it comes to defending transparency and preventing conflicts of interest. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] Another reform was possible to modernize the status and promote the attractiveness of public careers. It required a review of the form and conduct of the competitions in order to better open up the public service to today's society; It required the strengthening of continuing training to enable staff to adapt better to the inevitable changes in the profession; It involved bringing the organization of the three sides of the public service closer together in order to encourage mobility. None of this appears in the text, which appears for what it is: a text of circumstance to reduce the public service, that is, the number of public servants, without initiating a broad reflection on its adaptation to the needs of the French, especially those who most need public services, namely our most modest fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u147	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1229.u148	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the Public Service Transformation Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
