ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u2	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to put her question, No 680, on aid to Parisian traders.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u3	Over the past five months, Parisian traders have experienced large black Saturdays during the "yellow vests" protests. More than 453 shops were looted and ransacked, 216 of them on 16 March alone. For the Parisian trade, the balance sheet – 30% less turnover, cash flow difficulties for almost one in two brands and an image in dungeon abroad – is all the more catastrophic since no exit from the crisis is on the horizon. More than twenty weeks after Act I of the yellow vests, while the most complete uncertainty hovers over the subsequent mobilization, we fear the failure of many small businesses, which struggle to get back on track, and deplore the technical or partial unemployment measures suffered by many employees. The State, the Île-de-France region and the City of Paris have taken useful support measures, which may, however, prove insufficient to cover losses and boost economic activity. The Paris Chamber of Commerce and Industry asks the public authorities to provide the traders concerned with more support, in particular by setting up a compensation fund or extending to the victims of urban riots the benefit of the provisions of the Act of 13 July 1982 on the compensation of victims of natural disasters. In particular, the challenge is to improve insurance coverage of damage caused by breakers. How does the Government intend to respond to these demands? More generally, how does it intend to help Parisian traders overcome the disastrous consequences of this movement of unprecedented scale and violence?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u5	Madam Member, I know your involvement in this matter. You regularly question the Government about the accompanying measures that we – I use this term deliberately – must take vis-à-vis traders suffering the consequences of unacceptable damage, which occurred as part of the so-called "yellow vests" movement. Unacceptable on the form, they are also because of the cost of the damage caused. It has already been estimated at over EUR 200 million. In fact, it is certainly higher, because of the related turnover losses, which add to the material damage. Of course, the Government did not wait until the twentieth Saturday to mobilize for solutions. My colleagues from Bercy, notably Bruno Le Maire and Agnès Pannier-Runacher, have activated the business continuity unit, which brings together the economic actors concerned, in order to provide solutions. These include, first of all, the spread of social and tax charges, which have benefited more than 5000 companies – that is to say, the extent to which the consequences of the deterioration affect a large number of companies! In addition, partial unemployment measures, supported by the Ministry of Labour for an amount of approximately €38 million, have benefited more than 5000 companies and 75,000 employees. In addition, facilities are available for opening permits on Sundays. In addition, we are working with insurers to determine the extent to which insurers can kindly read the insurance contracts of the companies concerned. Similarly, we are working with banks to provide them with liquidity facilities. Thus, all stakeholders are mobilized, within the framework of the business continuity unit. These arrangements were strengthened last January and February, even granting tax exemptions on a case-by-case basis for the most affected businesses. Indeed, it would be illegitimate for a single trade to be forced to close down because of the deterioration suffered as a result of these movements which have given rise to unspeakable acts. Finally, a trade recovery system, with a €3 million fund, is being made available to the Government in order to reinvigorate economic activity. It is essential to ensure that our citizens continue to attend these businesses, in order to limit the loss of turnover which they have suffered, the amount of which, at this time, is already high. In any case, please be sure, Mrs Kuster, of the determination of the State, alongside parliamentarians, on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u6	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am already aware of the measures you have just mentioned. I would like to repeat the requests made by the Paris Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in particular with regard to the need to open a specific compensation fund and the possibility for the traders concerned to benefit from the provisions of the law on compensation for victims of natural disasters. On the other hand, without doubt of your interest, I would like to draw your attention to the image of France abroad. I would like to recall the efforts made by Atout France, at a time when its budget is, unfortunately, in decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u8	Mr Hugues Renson has the floor to put his question, No. 676, on the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u9	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the proposed direct link between Terminal 2 at Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle Airport and the Eastern Railway Station, more commonly known as the CDG Express. On 16 February, the decree approving the concession contract with the concession manager was published in the Official Journal. It confirms the date of January 1, 2024 for its commissioning, in accordance with the schedule of the upcoming Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris. However, this rail connection, which is supposed to provide a service seven days a week, from 5 a.m. to midnight, with a train every quarter of an hour, raises as many questions as concerns. This infrastructure, incorporated into the Grand Paris Express, is intended to meet the growth of the largest Paris airport and to improve its service, offering a service adapted to Parisians and visitors, while removing the RER B and reducing road traffic between Paris and the airport. However, questions remain as to the viability of the economic model and its margin of adjustment in the event of an operating deficit, if passenger traffic forecasts are too optimistic. As the Minister of Transport herself recently pointed out, the project initially suffered from insufficient transparency and consultation. This is why the prefect of the Île-de-France region has been entrusted with a task of consultation with the elected representatives of the territories concerned. The Committee issued its report on 4 February. The recommendations are intended to address the concerns raised by the project, including details of the funding arrangements for infrastructure modernization and improvements to the BSR. However, concerns about the impact of the "CDG Express"'s work on the RER B are increasing, due to the very large number of construction sites caused by the construction of the Grand Paris Express. Minister, can you specify the timetable for the implementation of the measures proposed by the Regional Prefect, which the Government has indicated will take all of them? Can you also inform us about the conclusions of the task of coordinating and piloting the interfaces of the work programmed on the Paris-Nord rail axis entrusted to the regional prefect by the Prime Minister? Finally, can you give us more general information on the future conditions of transport for users of this axis?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u11	The CDG Express project is part of a whole: the improvement of transport on the territory of France. It will improve the direct link between the centre of Paris and its main airport and thereby free the roads and the RER B from part of the passenger traffic. The CDG Express project, which is therefore part of a whole, does not in any way call into question other regional development projects, particularly the Grand Paris Express project. With regard to the economic model of the project, I would like to reassure you: this model is based on conservative traffic assumptions, so that we give ourselves every chance to achieve economic equilibrium. In order to do so, it may be necessary to adapt the offer and rates of the service, within the framework established by law. As you know, the amount of the air travel tax has been fixed by law and has a ceiling of €1.40 per passenger. In addition, the commitment to finance the project without public funding will be maintained, no matter what. We're committed to it. This is already the case. With regard to the consultation mission carried out by the regional prefect Michel Cadot, he made fifteen proposals a few weeks ago, which I can confirm to you are all in the process of implementation or will soon be implemented, under the auspices of my colleague Elizabeth Borne. Finally, with regard to the timing of the project and the technical questions relating to the implementation of the project, what is certain is that a very large number of construction sites are planned in the rail sector of Paris-Nord in the coming years, in particular to modernise the daily transport. These include the RER B and D rolling stock master plan, the national railway station accessibility master plan, the Grand Paris Express interconnection projects, the new NExTEO operating system and the renewal of certain tracks and catenaries. We have entrusted the Prefect of the Region with a mission regarding the timing of this work, in order to have the most precise visibility possible in this respect. It will deliver its conclusions next April, always with the utmost transparency, and will have to specify in particular under what conditions SNCF Network is able to keep the schedule originally planned for the "CDG Express". We will therefore have the framework and opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u12	Mrs Anissa Khedher has the floor to put her question, No. 675, concerning the municipality of Sathonay-Camp and the barracks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u13	In 2012, the municipality of Sathonay-Camp, located in the metropolis of Lyon, housed 415 housing units for the families of the gendarmes and 100 housing units for the single military. In 2016, this barracks housed about 1500 of the 6000 inhabitants of the municipality. This major real estate program then accounted for 25% of Sathonay-Camp's housing stock. It still accounts for 19 per cent. Even though they are classified as barracks in the INSEE census, they are counted as principal residences, as are dwellings outside the military compound. This categorization has the effect of lowering the social housing rate in the municipality. The municipality wants barracks to be excluded from the calculation of the rate of principal or integrated residences in the percentage of social housing. In fact, Sathonay-Camp must build an additional 140 social housing units to compensate for the impact of the barracks and thus reach the 25% of social housing in its territory by 2025, in accordance with the provisions of the SRU and ALUR laws. This urban development, by its speed and importance, required a rethinking of the town's planning and planning. In addition, it involves a strong financial investment by the municipality to respond to the rapid population growth. However, public office housing, which is exempt from the property tax, such as new social housing, does not provide additional resources to the municipality. In fact, the municipality today faces a financial situation constrained by the legitimate need for new public facilities and facilities – schools, school restaurants, car parks, public spaces. What support and solutions is the state able to offer to accompany Sathonay-Camp in its urban development as well as in the reception of the gendarmes and their families?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u14	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u15	Should gendarmerie barracks be included in the SRU quota? You are raising a complicated issue, which we debated at length during the examination of the ELAN law. I will give you my convictions in this matter. First, the SRU law is essential and its ambitions must be preserved. According to the law, social housing is included in controlled-priced housing, which is intended to serve as a springboard for our citizens who need it. As such, the barracks of the gendarmes are not included in the SRU quota. The discussions on the ELAN law led to this same conclusion. Secondly, in the area of local taxation, certain categories of housing – social housing and intermediate housing – were exempted from the property tax in order to support their construction, which outweighs the revenue of the municipalities. Therefore, this device poses a difficulty: what you give for the construction, you remove it in terms of resources. In fact, it is often the same people who ask for exemptions to support construction and then worry about revenue problems. So it's a very complicated subject. In any case, the balance found seems to me the best. If it was to be changed, it would have to be done with a great deal of discernment because the exemption may have the effect of making construction more difficult. Finally, as far as Sathonay-Camp is concerned, according to the information available to my services, the municipality already largely complies with the SRU quota, since the proportion of social housing reached 30%. In other words, the construction of the barracks would in no way affect the commune's obligations under the SRU law. I am at your disposal to confirm this point and to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u16	Mrs Anissa Khedher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u17	Minister, thank you for taking the time to respond and for considering the Sathenards' request.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u18	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to put his question, No. 665, on unworthy housing and sleep merchants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u19	The collapse of buildings on Rue d'Aubagne in Marseille highlighted the problem of unworthy housing and slums. It is decades of incuracy that have led to the result that we have had to deplore. The problem is not just about Marseilles. According to the Fondation Abbé-Pierre, at least one million people live in 600,000 rotten dwellings throughout France. Unscrupulous owners, whom I want to point out today, exploit poverty to rent at exorbitant prices poorly heated, mouldy or tiny dwellings. However, the rental of slums is illegal. According to the Criminal Code, the offence of accommodation in conditions incompatible with human dignity – this is the term used – is punishable by five years' imprisonment and a fine of 150000 euros. That's how he's taken seriously! From now on, there are additional penalties, such as the confiscation of property or the ban on buying a dwelling for ten years. Yet, despite the magnitude of the phenomenon, the condemnations of sleep merchants rely on the fingers of the hand, and this is deplorable. In Marseille, there are 40,000 unworthy housing units, but only five convictions have been handed down since 2012. Therefore, the idea of a certain degree of impunity, reinforced by the fact that some elected officials themselves owned unworthy housing, we have learned. In fact, sleep merchants pass between drops because of the lack of police and justice resources. Will war be declared to these criminals? Will a circular be taken to the attention of the prosecutors to ask them to fight the unworthy habitat with the same firmness as that demanded by the guard of the seals to judge the chain of yellow vests? The unworthy habitat in any one of us gives rise to sadness for the poor people who are condemned and disgust for the exploitation to which they are subjected. Minister, make a strong voice to tell those who are guilty of it that they will soon be punished!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u20	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u21	Once again, I would like to address my thoughts to the Marseillaises, the Marseillais, the bereaved and the firemen. I went to the scene very quickly after the drama; I have returned several times since then and will be there again in the next few days to continue to carry out a work of emergency accompaniment but also of rehabilitation of the city centre of Marseille. Yes, we must declare war on the sleep merchants, and lead it without respite. Sleep merchants are criminals – they must be seen as such – who benefit from the distress of our fellow citizens. They usually rent property for cash to people who do not dare to report it. These criminals, as you said, have a sense of total impunity. For years they were able to consider that the business of misery was worth so much it was lucrative; and the plague spread. How do we conduct this war? On the one hand, we have to track down the enemy and, on the other, we have to hit very hard. This is what we are doing thanks to new measures that you mentioned and which were adopted in the ELAN law. From now on, real estate professionals, condominium trustees or agencies, have to denounce – that's the term in the law, it's not annoyed – sleep merchants, because tenants are afraid to do so. According to the law, sleep merchants are considered drug traffickers. It is exactly the same penalties that are applied to them on the basis of the presumption of income – prohibition of buying property for ten years, confiscation of property. Think, Monsieur Mélenchon, that less than two years ago, in the Marx Dormoy district in Paris, a sleep merchant was convicted; the town hall has committed the expropriation and, because the law imposed it, it has had to pay 6,7 million euros to this criminal in respect of the compensation. What is the message sent except that of the immense weakness of the system and an encouragement for all sleep merchants to continue their activity? "Continue! If you are convicted, the expropriation compensation will be such that it will remain very lucrative." We have put an end to this aberration. Today, a sleeper who is sentenced cannot under any circumstances be compensated for expropriation. It's over! We wage the war with great determination to hunt down the sleep merchants and hit very hard. It is necessary to type where it hurts, i.e. the wallet – prohibitions on renting, automatic penalty payments, impossibility of receiving expropriation compensation, penalties provided for in the Penal Code. Fear has to change sides. Today, fear is on the tenants' side. Tomorrow, she must be on the side of the sleep merchants. The impunity felt by sleep merchants and the fact that they were found in all social classes, it was absolutely necessary to put an end to them. The war is declared! The circular you are calling for to strengthen the fight against unworthy housing and sleep merchants was issued last February. It focuses on six acceleration territories, including Bouches-du-Rhône.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u22	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor to put his question, No. 664, concerning sleep merchants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u23	Housing is a universal and fundamental right. In 1985, in one of his best films – Without a roof or a law – Agnès Varda staged Sandrine Bonnaire in the role of a homeless person found dead. Since then, the situation has deteriorated. This title is another way of saying that a roof is a right, since its absence grows out of the laws of the city. I'm not quoting the numbers you know. Every year, the findings of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre are increasingly alarming. I want to talk to you about a hotel located 10 Ornano Boulevard in Saint-Denis, in my constituency – but this is not the only example. I went there recently and met its inhabitants: a mother with her child, a couple with a 2-year-old child, a couple with a child whose wife is undergoing chemotherapy. In total, about twenty families live in rooms or two rooms worthy of novels by Zola or Dickens, in conditions of health that draw tears from you: moulds, blind windows, electricity that do not meet the standards... Until a resale which puts on them a threat of expulsion, in front of which I try, with the prefecture of Seine-Saint-Denis and the town hall, to find solutions of rehousing, these families paid between 450 and 600 euros per month, i.e. a rent a little less than the prices of the private sector in the neighborhood. Why are these families in this situation? The main cause, in my view, is the scarcity of housing: on the one hand, access to the private park is very difficult because of the guarantees that are required by the donors – a stable situation, with incomes three times higher than rent; On the other hand, social housing is not enough – the city of Saint-Denis and the prefecture are seeking to remedy this situation. In 2018, social housing production decreased by 10%. In addition, emergency housing is losing its vocation as it should not be open to people with incomes. In the absence of access to emergency housing, people are deprived of a roof, with the risks that are known. Earlier, we will pay tribute, in a garden in the 10th arrondissement of Paris, to the thousands of people who died on the street – a real scandal for the economic power we are. The introduction of a lease permit under the ALUR Act is left to the initiative of the communities, although they often have neither the skills nor the means to do so. We have criticized the ELAN law in that it weighs on the donors the reduction of the APL by 1.7 billion euros, until it obliges them to sell housing parks. The least we can say is that the balance sheet is not good. What do you think of the introduction of a rent control policy in order to lower the price of housing and revive a slightly more virtuous circle? How can we prevent cases like the one on 10 Ornano Boulevard – on which I would like your services to look so that all families are relocated – from finding themselves, in the future, all over the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u24	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u25	I raised this issue yesterday afternoon with the mayor of Saint-Denis and all his collaborators. Like other municipalities, this city is particularly affected by the scourge of the sleep merchants against whom, as I said right now to President Mélenchon, a war must be waged without respite or respite. In Saint-Denis, particularly in its centre, the mayor made the choice of setting up the lease permit, which is a very good measure. My services are at the disposal of all local elected officials who wish to establish it. However, you raise a legitimate question about the generalization of these permits across the country. I think my role is to give tools to the communities, who then decide. A lease permit may be very effective in some areas, but in others local elected officials may introduce different arrangements. In all cases, the minister I am must give local elected officials the opportunity to apply what they want and what they need, depending on the territorial specificity. Then you ask how we got there. You are right, the fundamental problem in our country is of course the amount of rent, which for some of our fellow citizens can reach up to 50% of their income. A policy must therefore be pursued to create affordable rents, while respecting, again, the territories and the people. It is not a question of building the most affordable housing always in the same territories – a problem we know well in Seine-Saint-Denis. More affordable housing must therefore be built. In 2018, while the construction of social housing was lower than in 2017 – 108000 housing units compared to 113000 – the construction of very social housing increased. This development must be continued, in particular through the measures of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Act, known as the ELAN Act. In this law, we have reintroduced the possibility of regulating rents. It was a measure that we had debated a great deal and which you had defended. This is possible once again if the local elected representatives so decide. I didn't impose it; It is a possibility that I leave to local elected officials who wish to apply it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u26	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 669, concerning the deployment of fibre optics in the Val-de-Marne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u27	The Government is committed to eradicating white areas and this must be our priority. France's very high-speed plan sets an ambitious but necessary target: at least 80% of the population covered by fibre by 2022 and 100% by very high-speed. Nevertheless, the modalities of deployment should be clarified in some territories. I have been asked by several residents of the third electoral district of southern Val-de-Marne on this subject, which legitimately feeds the concerns, because the flow of a connection depends on access to information, culture and certain public services. In Marolles-en-Brie, it is the outdated fibre network known as "up to the last amplifier" – FTTLa – that leads to the incomprehension of the inhabitants, while the neighbouring cities are equipped with fiber optics known as "to the home" – FTTH –, which is known to be faster. In Villeneuve-le-Roi, the recent change in operator responsible for the deployment of fibre optics is fuelling concern about the deployment schedule and potential delays. So, Minister for City and Housing, I would be grateful if you could clarify the strategy for the deployment of fibre optics in the territory of France, particularly that of the small crown, and explain how we can cope with the hazards, which are unfortunately inherent in the installation of many infrastructures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u28	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u29	You are talking about a subject that, as you know, is one of the great struggles that I have been waging for almost two years: bringing digital or good quality mobile telephony to all French people. This is not a luxury, but a right. For this to happen, several parameters had to be changed, including, sometimes, in State practice. We have therefore acted, particularly with regard to the frequencies granted to mobile operators. There was also a need to introduce more transparency, implement some funding and make all commitments related to digital deployment binding. That's what we did. Today, deployment operators can only act by making binding commitments, either under a contract or under the law, in accordance with Article L. 33-13 of the Post and Electronic Communications Code, of which we have talked a lot in this House. Since 1 January 2018, when these measures were committed, nearly 13,000 were deployed each working day, giving fibre to as many households. In other words, it's a massive acceleration. Today, about 4.5 million Francilians can connect to fiber. Last year, we deployed 3 million catches in France, compared to 2 million two years ago; We're planning to increase to 4 million next year. That's if things progress! It is the set of measures that we have taken that made this possible and that will allow us to continue even more strongly. You refer in particular to the two municipalities of Villeneuve-le-Roi and Marolles-en-Brie. The first is a very special case, since it is located in a private initiative area where, so far, the commitments made by the operators were not binding. We have changed that, so that today they have an obligation to meet the deadlines they set themselves. Even if the operator changes – it seems to me that in Villeneuve-le-Roi, SFR has taken over Orange – the commitments to provide FTTH by the end of 2020, if my memory is good, will have to be fulfilled. Again, from now on, it is a binding commitment that operators take. The municipality of Marolles-en-Brie is currently covered by a FttLa network. Orange has, however, expressed its intention to deploy a FTTH network on all the town's 1770 premises by 2022. Deployments are scheduled to start in 2020. It is with great precision and determination that I am the State's commitment to provide all French people with a high-quality throughput by the end of 2020 and very high-speed by the end of 2022. In both cases, for the municipalities you mentioned, these commitments will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u30	The next item is the question by Mr Xavier Batut, No. 672, concerning the abolition of guards at the medical home in Yvetot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u31	My question concerns the closure of the liberal care facility after 8 p.m. in the Pays de Caux since 1 January 2019. For the past year, Yvetot has had a liberal and innovative health centre, including a multidisciplinary medical home. The latter includes forty health professionals, including general practitioners, paramedics, organ physicians and surgeons. The health centre also has a medical biology laboratory, a 100% outpatient surgery clinic, a haemodialysis service, a medical imaging centre with scanner and MRI, and a first aid centre, pending opening authorization. The whole of Yvetot's liberal health centre, located close to the hospital centre, is a major supply of care for the population pool, mainly rural, which has about 90,000 inhabitants. Yvetot is located in the heart of the Pays de Caux, halfway between Rouen and Le Havre. It thus avoids many medicalized transports to these two agglomerations, notably for surgery or haemodialysis, MRIs, scanners and organ specialties. In addition, this health centre is a favourable factor for economic development as it facilitates job creation in the population pool. Until December 31, 2018, the existence of the liberal care facility from 8 p.m. to midnight made it possible to relieve the hospital emergencies in Rouen and Le Havre. I want to point out that, since January 1, 2019, the emergency situation at Lillebonne hospital has increased by 15%. The permanence also met unscheduled care needs in rural areas and, overall, fluidized patient management in the Seine-Maritime department. I would remind you that, at present, Centre 15 is no longer able to manage patient flows calmly. The health centre of Yvetot is in line with the objectives set by the Government in the "My Health 2022" plan. How, therefore, can we explain the one-sided decision of the regional health agency to include in a specification the judgment of the permanence of liberal care, endorsed by the decree of 8 August 2018 signed by the regional prefect? And how can I explain that the ARS has not given permission to activate the Yvetot first aid centre, ready to function as a replacement for the disappearance of the outpatient care facility?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u32	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u33	The medical care centre in Yvetot provides unscheduled care in the context of the permanence of outpatient care. This nursing home was open every night from 8 p.m. to midnight, Saturdays from 12 p.m. to 8 p.m., and Sundays and public holidays from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. So there was no medical consultation in the deep night. The activity figures confirm, as you pointed out, that this nursing home meets the needs of the population during the day, on Saturdays and Sundays, with an average of 20 acts. On the other hand, in the evening, the physicians present performed only one to two consultations on average. In consultation with the Regional Union of Liberal Physicians and the Departmental Councils of the Order of Physicians, the Regional Health Agency updated the terms of reference for the permanence of outpatient care at the end of 2018. It has strengthened medical regulation through the telephone hotline of a general practitioner every Saturday and Sunday, during the day, and every night during the week. This medical advice, in response to the patient's request, can be used to reassure, treat or or orientate according to the symptomatology. In view of the activity data of the nursing home, the Normandy regional health agency decided to maintain funding for a medical presence on Saturday afternoons, Sundays and public holidays during the day. Night guard points are maintained in Dieppe, Rouen and Le Havre, and SOS doctors also intervene in several areas of Seine-Maritime. From now on, the RSA expects the managers of this structure to finalize a health project, in order to accompany the professionals in the formation of a health centre to meet the health needs of the population of this territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u34	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u35	At least I hope that the opening of the first aid centre can be authorized. While emergency services exist in Dieppe, Rouen and Le Havre, they are 50 kilometres from Yvetot. In addition, although the doctors in the medical home performed only one to two consultations at night, they could, by answering telephone calls, direct patients to the next day's consultations. Opening a first aid centre in Yvetot, in the centre of the Seine-Maritime, would allow better access to care in rural territories far away from Dieppe, Rouen and Le Havre. So I'm counting on you and the ARS to activate it, and to reorganize night medical services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u36	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to raise her question, No. 679, on the care of people living in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u37	A few months ago, in my constituency of Tarn, I went to the home of a tetraplegic citizen for several decades. His distress and that of his wife prompted me to take several actions, including my intervention this morning. This person must receive three treatments a day, toilet care and special care to empty his bladder and intestines, which last between forty-five minutes and two hours. Such care can only be performed by nurses, as caregivers cannot practice it. This person contacted me because one of the three nurses working with him decided to stop care, forcing his wife to make up for this defect. The office I called clearly told me that the compensation for these acts was insufficient in the light of the time spent and the heaviness of care. In the neighbouring communes, the answer was the same: the travel costs were not covered and their agendas were very full, so the nurses refused to intervene. They also indicated that they could not devote more than a quarter of an hour to a toilet. If I'm valid, I'm already taking more time to do my toilet! Without accusing anyone, I want to denounce this unacceptable situation, which cannot continue. I called the ARS, who heard me; I thank the Director, who has responded very effectively and is currently looking for solutions for this person. Such a situation highlights a serious problem of coordination of the offices of liberal nurses. I have no doubt that the Government is aware of these situations and has taken measures of the urgency. Today I expect answers to these people with very heavy disabilities, but also to our elderly people who, as they age, need more and more care. The situation cannot continue: not all citizens call their MP to ask for his intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u39	Your concern about the continuity of this person's home care is legitimate and shared by the Government. As you have indicated, the services of the Occitanie Regional Health Agency are currently working to develop solutions to maintain the care of this person at home through the mobilization of the actors on the ground. Improving access to care for persons with disabilities is a goal set out in the National Health Strategy 2018-2022; It is available in the new regional health programs. It is also a priority of the Government's roadmap adopted on 20 September 2017 and reaffirmed at the Interministerial Committee on Disability – CIH – on 25 October 2018. Our ambition is to reduce social and territorial inequalities in health. I refer you to the recent report by Philippe Denormandie and Marianne Cornu-Pauchet. While much remains to be done to ensure effective access to quality care for our citizens with disabilities, significant progress has been made through the ICH commitments. This is demonstrated by the development of consultation mechanisms for people with disabilities in hospital centres, the relevance of which is stressed by all actors. It is now planned to expand and progressively increase its territorial coverage. The services of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health also accompany the development of home-based hospitalization in medical-social institutions, starting with the home-based nursing services for which practical tools for facilities have been specifically created. This national ambition can be translated into concrete action at the local level in the new territorial health project – PTS – created by the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system, article 7 of which explicitly states that the PTS "takes into account access to care for persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility". The territorial health project, developed by the territorial health professional communities – CPTS – is designed to improve access to care and coordination of health pathways. By relying on local coordination support mechanisms, and in order to ensure the continuity and proper articulation of care between different healthcare professionals, the CPTS will thus be the preferred forum for identifying these complex situations, which require our full involvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u40	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. These situations are taken into consideration by the Government, I had no doubt. There's really an emergency. When I went to those people, I thought that such situations could not continue. They have been slow to call me, because this is not an easy process. If they have done so, it is also to serve all those in similar situations. I know that every effort will be made to help them, and so much the better: the speech must be followed by action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u42	Mr Olivier Becht, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 693, concerning the introduction of a tax credit for preventive measures in the home of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u43	For almost a year, my question has moved from ministry to ministry, from finance to economy, from budget to solidarity. Upon review, it appears that each time this file falls within the remit of another department, and my question remains unanswered and unsolved. I want to believe today that my question is for the right people. Here she is. As the law affirmed the principle of the development of the personal services sector, the decree of 28 December 2016 drew up an exhaustive list of activities eligible for a tax credit. This list covers a wide range of areas, from the delivery of meals at home to home school support, to pet care and walks for dependents. On the other hand, this list at the Prévert does not include prevention-oriented awareness-raising measures adapted to the lives of our elderly. However, in our society, where people over the age of 60 make up about 20 per cent of the population, the issue of prevention, particularly with regard to the mobility of older persons, is of paramount importance. Our societies are aging, and if life expectancy increases, healthy life expectancy gains are not as high in proportion. It is more necessary than ever to accompany older people so that they remain autonomous and can live at home for as long as possible. Training modules in this direction could be offered to our seniors. Many initiatives on the ground await only the amendment of this decree. It therefore seems to me appropriate to supplement it with the introduction of these training courses for our elderly people. Does the Government intend to respond favourably to this request, and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u44	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u45	You're asking me about training to educate seniors about the prevention of domestic accidents and first aid. These trainings do not fall within the scope of home support and home support services for elderly people who are losing their autonomy; This is why they are not included in the decree of 28 December 2016. On the other hand, training in prevention and civic relief is provided by bodies approved by the Ministry of the Interior, such as firefighters and the Red Cross. In addition, pension funds have been working for several years to promote and fund prevention actions with our seniors, in particular to prevent falls and life-long accidents. I am thinking, for example, of the "blue week", which takes place every year in October, and which in particular promotes measures to prevent the loss of autonomy. As you know, the Government has made prevention the priority of the national health strategy. The conferences of the funders of prevention of loss of autonomy, which have now been installed in all the departments, have a central role to play in driving a policy that is strenuous among all the actors. Prevention was at the heart of the reflections of the national consultation on age and autonomy, led by Dominique Libault, who submitted his report last week. It will be a major focus of the draft law announced by the President of the Republic. Several objectives were identified: to propose a new prevention offer and to raise awareness among the general public; Massive training of professional workers with the elderly in the reflexes to prevent loss of autonomy; disseminate preventive measures throughout the care structures of the elderly; strengthen the management and evaluation of the policy to prevent loss of autonomy. The common overall strategy will be announced at the end of the first half of 2019, and legislative measures will be included in the law on the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u46	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u47	My question was not about first aid training, Madam Secretary of State, but about training in daily gestures that help preserve autonomy. Nothing to do with firefighters. I have heard the Government's plans. But, as I understand it, the clear answer to my question is that the Order will not be amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u48	Madam Secretary of State, would you like to make any clarifications?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u49	We'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u50	Mr Andre Chassaigne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 667, concerning the new conditions for health transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u51	My question concerns the consequences of the application of Article 67 of the Social Security Financing Act of 2018, which has profoundly changed the conditions for the care of health transport. This reform places small taxi companies at great risk as a vital link in rural areas; It may eventually lead to the disappearance of these structures. The artisans of our countryside are distressed and, if you will allow me the expression, very uplifted. In her reply to my written question of November 13, 2018, the Minister of Solidarity and Health informed me that she had decided to "take a break in the implementation of this reform". However, the small companies concerned are still very concerned about the consequences of the agreements they have been forced to sign, the pistol on the head, with the local primary health insurance funds. Under the penalty of no longer having sufficient activity and being forced to liquidate, they had to validate conditions for the management of particularly strict patients, with a sharp increase in the discounts made. This situation will undermine their already fragile cash flow; Some have already had to stop their activity. In addition, these small companies will have to respond to calls for tenders from local hospital groups – GHT – whose only criterion will be the cost, to the detriment of the relationship of taxi drivers with the patients they regularly drive, for chemotherapy, dialysis... But we know that a great proximity is being built in those moments. What concrete actions does the Government intend to take to stop these de facto measures aimed at eradicating small-scale health transport enterprises?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u52	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u53	Let me reassure you from the outset: the Government's action in the field of patient transport is not aimed at eradicating certain categories of actors, health carriers or taxis which are covered by health insurance. First of all, the purpose of the reform of Article 80 of the Social Security Financing Act 2017 is to entrust health institutions with the organisation and financing of part of the transport they prescribe, a small but essential part, that is to say the transport between several different sites or institutions of patients already hospitalized. The improvement of the health care path requires that health facilities be given a new responsibility, and that is the meaning of this reform. However, we do not underestimate the difficulties encountered in the organisation of these routes. That is why the Minister for Solidarity and Health has announced a pause in the deployment of the reform, in order to make improvements in it in consultation with the representatives of those concerned. Small businesses are not excluded from this activity; On the contrary, they will be accompanied to adapt to this change in their environment, and in particular to respond to invitations to tender organised by health institutions. On the other hand, you mention another subject, that of agreements between taxis and primary funds. Current conventional developments are aimed at controlling the evolution of health insurance expenditure; they are the result of a concerted action with the representatives of the taxis, transcribed in a memorandum of understanding signed on 12 November last. In order to allow better regulation of these expenses, the aim is to offer the profession of taxis an economic balance in a context in which the transport of sick persons represents a significant part of their activity, while guaranteeing the sustainability of these care for the health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u54	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u55	Thank you for that clear and precise answer. However, it must be understood that the national consultations on health transport take place with the major companies, and that they engage in extreme lobbying to recover the entire market. On the ground, small local artisans do an indispensable service, but their financial balance is very precarious. And the reality is that primary health insurance funds, in particular, must absolutely limit costs, and that under these conditions small local artisans cannot respond to calls for tenders. Similarly, local hospital groups, as they have done in many other markets, will launch tenders; But only the large taxi and health transport companies will be able to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u56	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor to put his question, No. 692, on police personnel at the Alençon police station.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u57	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to the staff of the police station in Alençon. It operates in a territory of 40,000 inhabitants which includes several municipalities on the periphery, including the central house of Alençon-Condé-sur-Sarthe and two neighbourhoods eligible for city policy. The professional organisations have repeatedly drawn my attention to the difficulties in the operation of the police station, linked to the lack of staff. If one adopts a purely accounting logic, there is a need for the presence of eighty police officers; This is what the organization chart indicates. However, it is necessary to examine in detail all the tasks entrusted to the police officers of this police station: the central house of Alençon-Condé-sur-Sarthe mobilizes police personnel in the framework of judicial extractions, the external monitoring of the site and the guarding of prisoners hospitalized. According to the organizational chart, these mandatory and potentially dangerous tasks due to the presence of prisoners particularly identified within the institution should be carried out by the public order unit, which is supposed to have twelve officers. However, to date, according to information brought to my knowledge, only five trained police officers are dedicated to these missions. In addition, this unit should be able to intervene in conjunction with the other two Orne police stations, Flers and Argentan, in the event of disturbances of public order. In addition, on night duty, three groups are normally required to travel. According to the texts, they must be composed of at least four officials. At present, however, only 11 officers are available. The same applies to the anti-criminality brigade, which operates on a derogatory basis: it has only six officials throughout the department of Orne, whereas a minimum of nine officers is foreseen. Since staff members often meet together, they cannot work normally. All this has a real impact, as we have seen during events in a neighbourhood last August: the violence could not be controlled. This gap between needs and reality weighs heavily on the operation of the police station, hence my question to the Minister of the Interior. I have certainly received answers about the security assistants, but, according to the information brought to my knowledge, it would take ten additional posts for the police station to function normally and to operate throughout the territory of the urban community for which it is competent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u58	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u59	Allow me, Mr Pueyo, to give you the response of the Minister of the Interior, who cannot be present this morning. Security is a top priority for this government. Ten thousand police and gendarmes posts will be created during the quinquennium. In order to ensure that police and gendarmerie resources are increased, the 2019 budget is increasing by more than 330 million euros. As part of the daily security police – PSQ – we organize a tailor-made police, with more police and gendarmes on the ground. In Alençon as elsewhere, the means are essential. As of February 28, 2019, the Public Safety District of Alençon had a staff of 100 officers. By the end of August 2019, their number is expected to increase to one hundred and three. As for the ranks and guards of the peace, as of 28 February 2019, they were seventy-seven, with a reference strength of seventy-four. By the end of August 2019, taking into account the forecasted movements to date, the workforce is expected to be 68. With regard to the Alençon-Condé-sur-Sarthe prison, I would like to point out that the judicial extractions in the department of Orne have been the responsibility of the prison administration since 5 December 2011. As for extractions with major procedural implications, they are indeed the responsibility of the national police. Between 1 January 2018 and 28 February 2019, the Departmental Directorate of Public Safety – DDSP – carried out only four extractions with major procedural issues. However, in order to respond to the requests of the magistrates of the Alençon High Court for situations not falling within its remit, the DDSP also carried out sixty-six judicial extractions without major procedural issues. In Alençon as elsewhere, the priority must be the fight against crime. With the PSQ, we are modernizing the law enforcement capacity by simplifying the criminal procedure and removing undue tasks that divert police officers from their priority missions. The Justice Programming and Reform Act allows for further progress in this regard, which will facilitate the operational work of our law enforcement agencies. Other projects are under way, including the digital criminal procedure. We continue our efforts to improve the work of police officers and enable them to carry out their missions more effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u60	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u61	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. However, you did not provide a concrete response to the request for additional positions. We note that the police officers involved worked almost 20,000 overtime in 2018, which demonstrates that there is a lack of budget items. I therefore hope that the organization chart will be reviewed, especially since the constituency of Alençon understands, as I have said, two neighbourhoods under the policy of the city, whose populations must be taken care of in a differentiated manner. In addition, the presence of the central house leads to heavy work. The police must conduct regular rounds to monitor their surroundings. As the institution receives radicalized inmates, the number of extractions is likely to increase in the coming months. I therefore hope that this request will be reconsidered at the level of the Minister of the Interior. If I asked this question, it is not by chance: I have been sent back to both professional organisations and public authorities. I agree with the figures you have given, Madam Secretary of State, but the number of the police station is not sufficient if all the constraints associated with her duties are taken into account. I think it is absolutely essential to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u62	Mrs Brugnera has the floor to raise her question, No 678, concerning aggravating circumstances in the event of a road accident.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u63	My question is for Mrs. Keeper of the Seals. It concerns the penalties for persons who commit road crimes causing the death of a person. In 2016, the 6th arrondissement of Lyon, which is part of my constituency, and, beyond that, all Lyonnais were marked by an accident of the dramatic road, which occurred in the heart of the city, which cost the life of a young woman who went on foot to her home and severely disabled her companion. Subsequently, the investigation highlighted the many circumstances aggravating the guilty driver's case: a red light, speed approaching twice the authorized speed, driving under the influence of alcohol, driving under the influence of narcotics, and the absence of a driver's licence. The number of offences is such that he said after the fact that the accident was, alas! Inevitability and that the driver had met all the conditions to cause a homicide. However, the aggravated penalty is not currently subject to any level depending on the number of offences found in the same case. As a result of this tragedy, some Lyonnais have created an association that accompanies the victims of similar road accidents and their families, and that closely investigates the circumstances in which they occurred in order to prevent them. Like them and many other Lyons, I wonder about the possibility of requalifying these homicides taking into account aggravating circumstances with greater severity. Could the creation, for accidents of this type, of a separate crime, distinct from involuntary homicide, be investigated?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u64	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u65	Mrs Brugnera, you have wished to draw the attention of the Commission to the issue of driver homicides in a road traffic accident. You relay the request for an evolution of the applicable legal framework when a fatal accident was caused as a result of a combination of aggravating circumstances. You want this situation to be taken into account more severely, by creating a separate crime, distinct from involuntary homicide. The Government is fully engaged in the fight against road violence. It remains a national priority and was the subject of a meeting of the interministerial committee on road safety, chaired by the Prime Minister, on 9 January 2018, at the request of the President of the Republic. In addition, since 2004, the Attorney-General's Office has been regularly sensitized by circulars on the need to combat road violence with determination. The crime of manslaughter and involuntary injury by a driver of a motorized ground vehicle is not exempt from this policy of firmness. The Criminal Code in force distinguishes between the offence of involuntary manslaughter by a driver of a vehicle solely because of his inattention, carelessness or negligence and the offence of involuntary manslaughter by a driver of a vehicle with one or more aggravating circumstances attributable to the driver, which has deliberately contributed to their creation. In the case of involuntary manslaughter not aggravated by drivers, the maximum penalty for imprisonment is set at five years and the fine is set at 75,000 euros. On the other hand, if there is an aggravating circumstance linked in particular to the state of drunkenness, the prior consumption of narcotics or a deliberate failure to comply with a particular obligation of safety or prudence imposed by law or regulations, the penalty shall be seven years' imprisonment and 100,000 euros' fine. If two aggravating circumstances are noted, the penalty of imprisonment shall be increased to ten years and the fine to EUR 150000. The legislation in force thus already allows for the punishment of the authors on the basis of their degree of responsibility for the occurrence of the facts. In case of legal recidivism, these penalties are doubled, the penalty being increased to 20 years imprisonment if three aggravating circumstances are met. Article 132-16-2 of the Criminal Code makes it possible to prosecute the driver responsible for a homicide in legal proceedings when he has previously been convicted of mere involuntary injuries. In view of the firmness of the existing legal framework, no amendments to the existing texts are currently envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u66	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u67	I sincerely thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. I hear it and I understand it. However, I note that accidents with multiple aggravating circumstances – more than two – are becoming more frequent, raising a number of questions. We will therefore continue the work on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u68	Mrs Marion Lenne, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question No 668 on unemployment compensation for frontier workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u69	Madam Minister of Labour, let me ask you about unemployment benefits for frontier workers, especially those working in Switzerland. The agreement on the free movement of persons concluded between the European Union and Switzerland has made it easier for the French borderers to work in Switzerland – they are currently 173000 in this case – within common living areas such as the Basel Eurodistrict, the Mont-Blanc area, the Greater Geneva metropolis or the Lausanne agglomeration. In the event of a loss of employment, their unemployment compensation is based on France, with part of the contributions being returned by Switzerland. In order to put an end to this system of compensation, the implementation of which is sometimes complex and which often proves to be unfavourable to the country of residence, the European Commission proposed, in December 2016, an evolution of the legislation on frontier workers, in order to base unemployment compensation on the country of employment. The case of Switzerland, our so prosperous and inspiring neighbour, remains outstanding to date. A third State in relation to the European Union, it is excluded from the scope of the reform, but could be included in it depending on the outcome of the ongoing negotiations in Brussels on the institutional framework agreement between the European Union and Switzerland. Given that the number of French border workers in Switzerland is increasing every year, I would like to ask you about two points, Madam Minister. On the one hand, what is the state of play in the negotiations with Switzerland on unemployment compensation? On the other hand, will the special situation of frontier workers be addressed in the context of the future reform of unemployment insurance?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u70	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u71	As you have indicated, Mrs Lenne, under European regulations, the burden of compensation for frontier workers residing in France and working in Switzerland falls to the State of residence. This is the general rule in Europe. In other words, the French unemployment insurance scheme bears the burden of indemnifying frontier workers deprived of employment for periods of employment which have resulted in contributions received in Switzerland. The arrangements for partial reimbursement of these benefits are laid down in European Regulation No 883/ 2004, which coordinates social security and unemployment insurance schemes within the European Union. Switzerland is not a member of the European Union, but acceded to this regulation in April 2012 – on matters of this nature, it is customary for agreements concluded at European level to be followed by a similar agreement with Switzerland. The Regulation provides that Switzerland shall reimburse France for three or five months of compensation to the beneficiaries according to their previous period of affiliation. It should be noted that the frontier worker enjoys the same rights as any other job seeker. It can thus resume a reduced activity by retaining the partial payment of its allowances. As you have pointed out, the number of French border workers in Switzerland has increased significantly over the past 20 years. As a result, unemployment benefits for these frontier workers weigh heavily on the French unemployment insurance scheme. In 2016, France paid €620 million of unemployment benefits to frontier workers who were residing in France and had previously worked in Switzerland. Since Switzerland reimbursed France 144 million, the additional cost amounted to 476 million. France and a majority of other States are trying to change the European regulation, the first necessary step in correcting the situation. We are dealing with Luxembourg, as well as with other European countries, with this difficulty, which some Member States encounter, on the other hand, with other Member States, including France, when the labour force is no longer exported but imported. This issue is on the European agenda. As soon as it is closed, we can deal with Switzerland. We have already spoken to our counterparts and I have an appointment with them for the day after the European regulation has been amended. It is one of the subjects of social Europe that we want to build.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u72	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u73	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. Since 2014, France has been collecting the contributions paid by frontier workers who have chosen to be members of universal health insurance. In order to move towards social harmonization, it seems more fair, consistent and legitimate to ask our Swiss friends for the surrender of contributions due to UNEDIC. As you pointed out, Switzerland is by far the most expensive country for French unemployment insurance. Since, between 2010 and 2012, UNEDIC did not receive the contributions due from Switzerland, it is important to provide for a mechanism to recover this amount.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u74	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Michel Clément, to put his question, No. 686, concerning the situation of the AFPA Vigeant centre in Vienna.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u75	My question concerns the situation of the AFPA, the National Agency for Adult Vocational Training. Despite its transformation into an industrial and commercial public institution (EPIC), the AFPA is now faced with a major restructuring. It affects many territories, in particular mine, since the centre of the Vigeant, located in the southern part of the Department of Vienna, must be closed in the year 2020 at the latest. However, this site has been able to find its place locally by establishing essential partnerships with several institutions located in the territory: a closed educational centre for which it provides guidance and qualification for young minors, a reception and referral centre for migrants which it manages for the State, or a post-curerical medical centre in addictive medicine. In addition, it carries out more traditional training measures for jobseekers or for continuing training. The site is specialized in the training of electric network assemblers, for which it enjoys a national reputation. The AFPA centre, which covers 8.5 hectares, consists of 26 buildings, a dining area for 150 potential guests and an accommodation of ninety-eight beds. This property is owned by the State and is under the supervision of your ministry. The overall budget of the site amounts to around 3.5 million euros, the closure will not without impact on the local economic reality. This announced closure is in any case similar to that of a company which radiates in a territory, and which is even more seriously felt when that territory is rural. Today, even more than yesterday, state support for rural areas is vital. That is the DNA of the parliamentary group to which I belong. When a company finally closes its doors by compromising in the short and medium term the hope of developing a region, the State can support fragile spaces by accompanying the site's conversion or by redeploying activities on it. What means does the State intend to develop in the particular case so that all existing activities, which would be compromised in the event of a dry closure, are maintained? What fate will the owner you are reserve for the property set thus released? Finally, would the State be willing to finance the engineering necessary for the new orientation of the site?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u76	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u77	As you know, the AFPA has been in a structurally difficult situation for years. Annual operating losses have been 70 to 100 million euros in the last 10 years. As a result, AFPA's management and board of directors have proposed a roadmap, not to shut down the Agency, but to restructure it and give it new impetus, which is in the right direction. I see this as a side effect of the decentralization laws, because the regions submit the AFPA to the invitations to tender, which explains why, for the New Aquitaine region, the budget of the AFPA centres has decreased by an average of 17%. I do not blame the regions for decisions that come under their free administration, but I note that they aggravate the already difficult situation of the AFPA. However, there are two issues that need to be distinguished: the future of employees from the sites that will close and the planning of the territory. For employees, the Agency had to put in place a plan to safeguard employment – PSE. The information-consultation procedure is under way. If the Directorate-General has slightly exceeded the deadlines, it is in the right direction, since it was about finding the best solution. There is a need to reason both in terms of the creation and closure of posts. Indeed, some 600 positions will be created for the AFPA to assume new functions: training of migrants, subjects close to the regalian, development opportunities. On the other hand, some sections, which have received very few jobseekers for years, need to be amended. Let me turn to the question of territory. You are right to point out that the closure of the Vigeant centre, like that of other AFPA centres, will have important consequences, especially since it operates not in a city centre, where two centres would be merged, but in a rural territory. At my request, the AFPA explores two tracks. On the one hand, how can we continue to train jobseekers, even if they do so on a mobile basis, in all the territories? The proximity of a job offer is indeed important for job seekers. On the other hand, what are the possibilities of reconversion of the site? This path needs to be discussed with all actors, including local actors. It is too early to talk about the Vigeant site, but it is one of the elements of our strategy, which focuses on both employment and territory. The story isn't over. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u78	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u79	We are, of course, in the middle of the road, but the various communities have already mobilized. You may know that. What we will miss in this territory, given the break-up of possible public and private actors – as business leaders are also mobilized – is the engineering of the future project. We expect the State to make a singular effort to coordinate action on the ground. It is on this point that my express request, to which you will not reply this morning, but which I will reiterate when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u80	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor to put his question, No. 681, on school attendance at 3 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u81	My question is for the Minister of National Education and Youth. Every year, from January to April, we experience the same tensions in our territories, around the subject of the school map and mainly about the issues of withdrawal of employment, and therefore of closure of class. Mr. Blanquer suggested a lead a few weeks ago in the discussion of the bill for a school of trust. It would be to consider these developments over multi-annual cycles. We would like to know a little more about this proposal. Regularly, there is an incomprehension between parents of pupils, local elected officials and the Ministry's departments on the non-inclusion of children under the age of 3 in the numbers chosen for the school in question. However, the bill lowers the age of compulsory education from 6 to 3. The principle of schooling for children under 3 years of age was widely emphasized by the previous Government. Since then, you haven't called him into question. In many cases, tensions are crystallized in schools when a job is announced to be closed on the basis of projected numbers that voluntarily remove these toddlers, while their consideration would avoid the ensuing debate and stress. In my view, the situation must necessarily change with compulsory schooling at the age of three, since some families and some schools will want the school year to be completed in full, which will force children to start the school year before their third birthday. It seems to me important that a child return home on the same day as his or her peers, as successive arrivals are sometimes a factor of imbalance for the class and of difficulty of inclusion for the child. Finally, I wanted to warn the Minister of Education and Youth about a very special case that I encounter in my constituency: that of the municipality of Cambremer. The school jurisdiction was managed there for 15 years by a community of municipalities with additional taxation and, when the NOTRE law – the new territorial organization of the Republic – was applied, the municipality joined a community of agglomeration with a single professional taxation that does not exercise school competence. There has therefore been a return to school competence within the municipal budget, but since there was no provision for compensation, the municipality today does not have the means to exercise this competence. To our knowledge, this is a unique case in France. I believe that the department should examine this situation and make the necessary efforts to ensure that the municipality of Cambremer has the means to operate its school properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u82	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u83	As you know, the confidence school bill, as passed by this House last February, provides that the education obligation will apply to all children from the date of the school year in which the child reaches the age of three, and not from the date of the child's birthday. As you pointed out, welcoming every child to school "through the water", depending on his or her birthday date, could be very destabilizing, as any young child would arrive in an already constituted group, while the class would have to get used to new arrivals on an ongoing basis. The rule is clear: there is only one school year in September for all pupils, which means that children who reach the age of 3 between January and September will only be admitted to school from September of the calendar year concerned. This also means that children who will be 3 years of age after the school year, but before 31 December of the same calendar year, also start school rightfully in early September. In other words, we go to school in September the year of its 3 years old. You also mentioned children under 3 years of age. In some cases, provisions of the Education Code allow very young children to attend school from the age of 2 years old, in particular to reduce certain social inequalities and to allow, where possible, access to education, depending on the environment. In all cases, whether they are 3 years of age or younger, all children entering school are counted in the calculation of enrolment. Moreover, the case of Cambremer, which you have reported, seems extremely rare. I have no information on this specific point. I will therefore pass on your question to the Minister of National Education and Youth, so that he can answer you. In any event, the general rule is clear. All staff will be in place at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u84	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u85	Thank you for your answer. Indeed, the rule is clear, but on the ground it leads to misunderstandings. It must now be explained and perhaps developed to avoid certain class closures. As far as the situation in Cambremer is concerned, I would like to submit it to Mr Blanquer. I thought he'd be here this morning. This school, which has chosen to keep four and a half days of schooling, offers a very high quality reception for children in rural areas. The situation of Cambremer, which has 1200 inhabitants, is a collateral damage of the NOTRE law. The prefect of the time did not apply the SDCI, the departmental scheme of intercommunal cooperation, which had been decided with the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u86	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor to put his question, No. 682, concerning the closure of the Sainte-Thérèse vocational school in Oermingen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u87	I wanted to ask the Minister of National Education and Youth about the situation of the Sainte-Thérèse vocational school in Oermingen, in my constituency. A few weeks ago, the Congregation of Divine Providence in Ribeauvillé decided to close, from the next school year, this establishment located in rural territory of the hustle and bustle Alsace. This decision is very detrimental to the sector's training offer, while the trainings on the site correspond to the needs of the economy and the legitimate aspirations of students and their families. The premises of this facility are in perfect condition, as the regional council has recently made investments. To reduce social inequalities in rural areas, it would be appropriate for national education to take up this site, for example, as an annex to the Georges-Imbert public high school in Saar-Union, located a few kilometres away. Therefore, in agreement with the elected representatives of the territory, the mayor of the commune and the elected representatives of the intercommunality, the departmental councillors and the regional councillors, I would like to know how the departments of the ministry can envisage, in liaison with the territorial authorities, in particular the regional council, the resumption of this establishment, as soon as the coming year, by the State services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u88	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u89	Mr Hetzel, I am pleased to answer your question on behalf of the Minister for National Education and Youth, with whom, as you know, we are working closely together to develop apprenticeship and vocational education. The transformation of the career path, driven by the Ministry of National Education and Youth, will consolidate the network logic. Each vocational school will be designed to integrate into a geographical network, which will promote complementarities in a given territory. The Sainte-Thérèse vocational congregational school in Oermingen saw the number of its students drop by 24% between 2016 and 2018. In 2018, 93% of 122 students are girls, mainly directed towards early childhood diplomas. In addition, the mobilization of teaching resources, with 16 FTEs of teachers, half of whom are non-holders, is proportionally higher than the national average. Preventing the closure of a private institution – in this case a congregational institution – does not fall within the prerogatives of the Ministry of National Education. Nevertheless, I would like to make three points. First, the combined provisions of articles L. 442-4 and R. 442-23 to R. 442-32 of the Education Code allow the resumption of a private institution under contract in public education – the terms of which they define – if the head of the institution so requests. Second, she was then educated by the prefect, in liaison with the rector of the academy. Thirdly, it is up to the latter to assess, in accordance with Article R. 442-26 of the Education Code, whether the institution requesting its inclusion in public education meets a school need, taking into account the training map. For this reason, the Minister of National Education has taken steps with the Academy to ascertain the possibilities for the reception and the prospects for the resumption and integration of this institution within the Ministry of National Education, in liaison with the Regional Council. The Lycée Sainte-Thérèse did not ask for its resumption by public education, whereas it is the only one that can do so. In fact, the provision of training to the public regarding the accompaniment, care and services to the person – ASSP – as well as the kitchen, is sufficient in the geographical area concerned. It would therefore be of little interest if this school were to be taken up again in view of the vocational education map. The Simon-Lazard vocational school in Sarreguemines, which is less than 15 minutes away, already offers the professional baccalaureate ASSP and the CAP "technical assistant in family and collective environment" – trainings currently attended by 91% of the students of Sainte-Thérèse high school. The seventy-four pupils who will have to be assigned to the school year have already made their wishes and wish, for the vast majority of them, to join the Simon-Lazard High School in Sarreguemines. In the case of teachers, the nine teachers on final contracts will have to be reassigned to another private institution; Six of them asked for their inclusion in the public, as a matter of priority in the Nancy-Metz Academy. The nine masters on temporary contracts will be able to apply for unfilled posts in the private or public establishments of the academies of Strasbourg and Nancy-Metz. Moreover, with regard to the map of initial vocational training, the region did not wish, in view of the facts I have explained to you, to develop the offer of ASSP training. I can therefore confirm that this situation is well taken into account by the State authorities, but that this institution will not be taken up again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u90	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u91	Madam Minister of Labour, Minister of National Education and Youth, I note that this issue is being dealt with very administratively, and I regret it, especially since Sainte-Thérèse High School is located in great rural areas. Legally, you are right: the private educational institution could request the resumption of the institution by national education. However, the elected representatives have been asking the rectorate, for several months now, to hold a consultation with the State services: it has not taken place, which I also regret. In addition, you say that students can go to Simon-Lazard High School in Sarreguemines in fifteen minutes. Not only is the transport time actually longer, but the public concerned is extremely fragile. Again, I note a significant gap between your speeches and your actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u92	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u93	On this and other matters, you do not meet the needs of the territory. Unfortunately, I must deplore this in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u94	Mr Fabien Lainé spoke of his question, No 687, concerning the detection of language disorders and learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u95	I would like to draw your attention to the detection of specific language disorders and learning in schools. Prior to the law of 11 February 2005, certain dyslexic pupils were given, during their schooling, the possibility of making examinations, with an additional third time, of using a computer – or even of using a secretary – or of being able to conduct an individualised project, with educational facilities. Since the adoption of the 2005 law, in order to benefit from the same measures, it is necessary to apply to the CDMH – the departmental house of persons with disabilities – whether or not disability is recognized. Despite advances in the detection of DYS, i.e., specific cognitive disorders, learning disabilities – including dyslexia, dysphasia or dyspraxis – it remains imperative to consider the practical mechanisms available for early childhood identification and screening, as the disability situation is primarily school-based. Even today, too often the school difficulties of these children and adolescents are associated with laziness or a simple lack of work, as the teacher is unable to detect these symptoms. This bias can lead to failure. It is reflected in the lack of care and, by ricochet, isolation, the feeling of misunderstanding, the difficulties experienced in social relations and the deterioration of self-esteem. On 13 February 2019, the National Assembly voted to lower the age of compulsory education from 6 to 3 years, a flagship measure of the bill "for a school of trust", which aims to promote equal opportunities. The detection of language disorders and learning in schools is part of this objective. It is imperative that teachers and staff, in particular ATSEMs, be able to identify children with difficulties and communicate with families in order to facilitate diagnosis. Minister for National Education and Youth, the introduction of training for teachers and school staff to facilitate the identification of symptoms seems to be an answer to this problem. In addition, better support for the student, allowing for appropriate care and support, both material and psychological, seems necessary. Can you give us a detailed account of the actions of the Ministry of National Education in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u96	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u97	Mr Fabien Lainé, I will bring to your question, which concerns a major issue, two points of answer. First, the confidence school bill intends to systematize the medical examination of students from 6 years of age to 3 or 4 years of age. This is a very ambitious objective, which is not easy to achieve, but one for which we are going to mobilize, paying particular attention to the most disadvantaged territories. This can, of course, be a good time for the detection of language disorders and learning. Secondly, as you mentioned, all staff should be trained. The master's degree in teaching, education and training, which will continue to be offered in the future INSPÉ – Higher National Institutes of Faculty and Education – already includes lessons from the common core in this field. This will be developed by better taking into account the learning process of pupils, the diversity of the public, in particular students with disabilities, and the methods of educational differentiation. The new models of initial training will place more emphasis on research achievements within the framework of these Masters. The Scientific Council for National Education – and in particular one of its members – has worked on this issue, which will have a direct and indirect effect on the future training of teachers and actors in national education. We also address this issue through continuing training. Studies leading to the certificate of professional fitness for inclusive education practices – CAPPEI – allow students with specific language and learning disabilities – to follow training modules related to schooling – TSLA. Training activities are also offered to first- and second-level teachers in the framework of academic training plans and departmental training plans. Resource teachers can also accompany teachers. Finally, innovative tools at a distance can also be developed. The M@gistère de l'éducation nationale platform offers distance learning tools dedicated to disability. As the school tends to become more and more inclusive, teachers express a strong demand for accommodation and adaptations to enable students with disabilities to attend school. As you know, in the coming year, we will be entering a new phase, which we call the "public service of inclusive school", which will provide the rectors with the opportunity to recruit more upstream and to work, earlier before the start of the year, on the training of companions. This will obviously contribute to the improvement of the situation. Finally, we decided to create an online educational resource platform, in order to promote schooling and help teachers, which will be operational in the 2019 school year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u98	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u99	Thank you, Minister. The answers you provide seem to me to promote inclusive school and equal opportunities. I have noted, among other measures, the medical visit from 3 years old, specific trainings, which will benefit from the latest advances in research on disorders – mainly – cognitive, as well as the digital platform M@gistère, which offers remote tools. Believe me that I will relay these measures to my territory and that I, like others, will be attentive to their proper deployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u100	Mrs Lise Magnier spoke of her question, No. 695, concerning the monitoring of school education by families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u101	My question concerns the control of family education. The parents who choose this type of instruction have indeed alerted me to the control carried out by the academy inspection. Without in any way calling into question this control, of which they understand and accept the necessity, they wonder about its content and the conditions for its implementation. First of all, with compulsory education from 3 years old, which is a very good thing, parents question the criteria for assessing the level expected by the academic inspection for these very young children. Indeed, the period between the child's 3 years and 5 years of age is dedicated to the learning of speech, awakening and discovery. Differences in levels between children – whether they are in school or not – can be significant. My first question, Minister, is about the content of the evaluation criteria you want to develop for toddlers. More generally, parents who choose family education sometimes regret a lack of accompaniment and co-construction as part of the checks carried out. For my part, I found that the latter were characterised by great differences in terms of requirement or, in other words, tolerance. Parents sometimes experience this control as a test, rather than as a moment of exchange with an educational professional, because they fear that their child will not enter the cells – which could be described as "close" – defined by national education. An 8-year-old child may not master reading but may be polyglot and be able to solve equations. However, an inspector may consider that parents must attend school, as the reading box is not checked, while another inspector will invite parents – and will accompany them in this direction – to develop reading learning in the following months. As the so-called "alternative" schools are increasing in number and new pedagogical approaches are proving their worth, do you envisage, Mr. Minister of National Education and Research, changing the content and grids of this control to better reflect the overall development of the child, his curiosity, his openness to the world and his achievements and, thus, to promote a more equitable, balanced and necessary educational follow-up for every child? Can the training of inspectors also evolve so that they can play a role in accompaniment of the parents who choose family education, not punishment, as families too often feel?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u102	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u103	Mrs Magnier, I thank you for raising this very important issue, in so doing setting out many avenues for progress. As you said, the lowering of the age of instruction from 6 to 3 years, which you welcomed – thank you – will come into effect next year. The inequality that we want to fight at the root, as you know, concerns the acquisition of language. It is true that by setting the age of education at 3 years, article 2 of the draft law extends the control of education in the family to children between 3 and 5 years of age, which has not been the case so far. This opens up an area of control – designed to avoid certain practices – but also an area of cooperation. The gradual acquisition of language is, of course, the backbone of pedagogical control. We are therefore introducing an evaluation criterion into the bill, namely, the progressive mastery of each of the areas of the common foundation, so that children can leave on an equal footing at the time of entry into the preparatory course. The common foundation will therefore be extended by regulation to cycle 1, i.e. to kindergarten. The reflection on the extension of the common base to children aged 3 to 5 can be based on the very concrete work carried out in this cycle. Your concern also relates to the modalities of pedagogical supervision, particularly with regard to very young children. The Education Code already provides that the progress made in acquiring the child's knowledge and skills must be compatible with the child's age and state of health. An interview with the parents is also planned, so that they can specify the approach and teaching methods they apply. In addition, national education inspectors are familiar with both skills and behaviour. They will receive support with the publication of a guide dedicated to this type of control. I hope that these elements will reassure you. The state of mind is trust, which gives its name to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u104	Mrs Elise Fajgeles, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 670, concerning the operation of the RER B and the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u105	The pole of the North and East Stations is central to my constituency. In terms of attendance and openness to Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, including Eurostar and Thalys, it is the most important gateway to Europe. The Charles-de-Gaulle Express, which is to link the Gare de l'Est to the Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle airport in twenty minutes, is an ambitious and useful project, structuring for our country. It responds to an issue of Paris's economic and tourist influence, and will be able to strengthen the attractiveness of our metropolis. At the same time, it will ease the attendance of the RER B, so often saturated. Daily users could then find a mobility tool more adapted to their needs. For these reasons, it deserves our collective support, full and complete. With this project, it is obviously not a question of playing Paris against the suburbs, on the contrary. It must benefit both Paris, France and the entire metropolis. However, I know the oppositions that express themselves about its realization. These are partly based on legitimate concerns about the potential impact of the project's work. Passengers on the RER B line already suffer from regular malfunctions, which also have an impact on the entire Paris-Nord network, where this line passes. We can all share the hope that the construction of the CDG Express will not worsen them. Moreover, our city, which is so dense, is plagued by numerous pollutions, especially noise, which must be taken into account in all development projects. This large-scale project, a sea serpent for many years, was repeatedly supported, abandoned, and then repulsed. Can you, Madam Minister, assure me that it is a priority for the Government in terms of planning and mobility, when we will be examining the mobility guidance bill very soon, says LOM? Can you also give me guarantees that this work will be carried out by preserving the tranquillity of the residents and without altering the quality of the service for the users of everyday life?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u106	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u107	The Charles-de-Gaulle Express project is essential to improve the link between the centre of Paris and its main airport. This direct, rapid and frequent link is crucial for the economy and attractiveness of our country, and its capital, Europe's first tourist destination. Access by motorways A1 and A3 and RER B is saturated and will not be sufficient for the growth of airport traffic. They cause nuisances for the Francilians who use these roads and this RER line. Thus, the perfectly legitimate concerns about the transport of daily life do not call into question the appropriateness of the project. That's why I signed the concession contract on February 11 with SNCF Réseau, Paris Aéroport and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, launching the work of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express. With regard to the construction phase, many projects are planned in the coming years in the rail sector Nord, in particular to modernise the daily transport: master plan of rolling stock of the RER B and D, master plan of accessibility of the stations, interconnection of the Grand Paris Express, new pilotage system NExTEO, renewal of tracks and catenaries. These projects will improve daily transport, the RER B in particular. Concern was expressed about the ability to lead all of these projects, of which the CDG Express is only a part. The Regional Prefect has been tasked with a task on the timing of this work: he will present his findings in April and will have to specify under what conditions SNCF Network would be able to keep the Olympic and Paralympic Games calendar for the CDG Express. If his work proves that the impact of the work on the quality of service of daily transport, which is our priority, is too high, I do not rule out the need to adapt the schedule of the project. I repeat this very clearly: the Government's priority lies in daily transportation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u108	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor to put his question, No 671, on rail freight in the Tergnier sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u109	My question will deal explicitly with the interest of developing and energizing rail freight, in particular rail haulage, for the Tergnier multimodal node, located in Aisne, north of my constituency. The history of the railway town of Tergnier is consubstantial of rail freight in its glorious moments, as in its high acts of resistance to Nazi barbarism, and its industrial development is partly related to it. However, as activity has been slowly declining over the last 50 years, it is now essential to reinvigorate it. The city of Tergnier occupies a strategic position in the European context, because it is close to the A26, to the north-east, and is located directly close to the Grand Paris via Compiègne and the future large Seine-Nord Europe canal via the departmental road 1032, which we hope to set up twice two lanes with the support of the Government and the department of Aisne. The development of rail freight is an economic, social and environmental issue. In addition, the Tergnier station still has a suitable triage beam and a high added value technicent: thus, the city would return to its full place within a multimodal crossroads. The north of Aisne has far higher unemployment and poverty rates than the national average, which reinforces our determination to effectively combat social injustices, by reviving the attractiveness of this basin of life, an undertaking that reflects our Government's action on the ground. That is why, Madam Minister, the revival of rail freight is part of a global vision of revitalizing the territories. What means do you intend to deploy in the Tergnier sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u110	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u111	As you pointed out, honourable Member, the revival of rail freight is a national issue. It is a key lever for the economic dynamism of our country and for reducing the environmental impact of transport. With the rail reform of 2018, an unprecedented effort to invest in the network and an increase in the competitiveness of the public railway group are undertaken. All traffic will benefit. However, as the cargo situation requires specific responses, I announced four structuring measures. The Government has, in the first place, committed itself to limiting to inflation the increase in tolls paid to SNCF Network by rail freight companies, in order to preserve their competitiveness. In the past, planned increases amounted to almost 10 per cent per year. In order to continue to support combined transport, the Government has decided to maintain aid of €27 million per year for the duration of the quinquennium. The State's contribution to the rehabilitation of the freight capillary lines is sustained to the tune of EUR 10 million per year. Finally, SNCF Réseau has been asked to spend €20 million per year for three years on the upgrading of the service routes necessary for the organisation of the transport plans of the railway undertakings. As regards Tergnier in particular, the car sorting centre has indeed experienced a significant decline in activity as a result of economic crises over the past several years. However, some railway undertakings continue to use it for car sorting missions; Relay operations for complete trains are also carried out with changes in engines and drivers. To facilitate the preservation of these activities, SNCF Réseau made Tergnier a priority site in 2019, as part of its track rehabilitation program. Finally, with regard to Route D1032, I would like to assure you that I pay particular attention to service issues. However, this departmental route is the responsibility of the department of Aisne, which alone takes over the management of the project. It is therefore up to the departmental council to present concrete solutions to meet your expectations of a double-tracking of the itinerary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u112	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo has the floor to put his question, No. 673, on national road 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u113	The RN2, which connects Paris to Belgium, is a highly structuring axis for the national territory. Its double-tracking has now been under way for nearly forty years. This route of Flanders, as it is customary to call it, has been included in all the contracts of plan between the State and the region, without the work ever being carried out. Under the current plan contract, €65 million has been provided, but once again, the amounts entered for the RN2 have not been spent. Things seem to be moving forward, however. I will not go back to the history of the case, which you fully know, Madam Minister, and which I was able to remind you orally last year. The bypass of Avesnes-sur-Helpe, which has been broken down for several years, is finally under way. As the state took over, the land portion was now settled and the various labourers selected. So that's good news! The problem remains of the southern section, which connects Avesnes-sur-Helpe to Laon and makes it possible to reach Paris in good conditions. The double-tracking of this section was abandoned in 2011 by the Fillon government and removed from the programming of the national roads. Without registration by the State, the subject was closed! But on 8 November last, the President of the Republic, on a visit to Maubeuge, understood the stakes of the RN2 for our territory and asked that the two-lane road not stop at Avesnes-sur-Helpe, but go as far as Laon, as was originally planned. So that's a second good news! And this good news took shape with the signing of the pact for the success of the Sambre-Avesnois-Thiérache, in which the state and the communities committed themselves. Madam Minister, my question is simple: since the President of the Republic has taken the decision to set up two lanes from the RN2 to Laon twice, can you give us some insight into the precise timetable of this fundamental project for the future of our territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u114	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u115	Like you, honourable Member, I welcome the important step taken by the two-way development project of the RN2 north of Laon, with the signature by the state and local authorities on 7 November last of the pact for the success of the Sambre-Avesnois-Thiérache. The pact specifies the commitment of the State and its partners to the completion of the development of the sections linking Avesnes-sur-Helpe to Maubeuge and Laon. To ensure the implementation of this development, the Pact provides for the implementation of a first tranche of work for an amount of EUR 17.2 million, financed at parity by the State and the region. The latter undertook to programme, under the future plan contract, the work to continue the double-tracking, with a view to achieving a fully upgraded road. I assure you, the commitments made by the State will be fulfilled. With regard to the linear to be developed and the amount of work, which is in the order of several hundred million euros, the regulations in force require a referral to the National Commission for Public Debate – CNDP: the prefect of Hauts-de-France has already taken the steps in this direction. These efforts will be continued, and even intensified, in order to establish the public consultation envisaged by the CNDP as soon as possible. At the same time, it is essential to quickly identify the sector most conducive to the implementation of the first tranche of work and to initiate its procedures. The next steering committees, organised by the regional prefect, will be an opportunity to deploy this approach in consultation. As I announced to the Regional Chair, I will chair the next committee, which will be held on April 16 in your region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u116	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to put his question, No 683, on the toll of Nice-Saint-Isidore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u117	I would like to draw your attention to the injustice and danger faced by the Niçois, the Azureans and the users of the A8 motorway, in the Alpes-Maritimes department, especially those who visit the motorway bypass section of Nice every day. Injustice, first of all, Madam Minister, because Nice is the only metropolis in France to have a paid motorway bypass. To go from one neighborhood to another from Nice via the motorway, you have to pay 1.5 euros. This is indeed an old situation, but unacceptable and totally unjust. I would also like to warn you about the danger of the motorway toll in Nice-Saint-Isidore. In recent years, this toll has unfortunately been the scene of dramatic accidents, of a real black series, including several fatal accidents, which has caused irremediable drama. This toll barrier is located at the bottom of a very long descent to significant gradient. This resulted in heavy goods vehicles being embedded in the vehicle after the brakes were broken, hitting the motorists when they stopped. There is, therefore, today a double urgency to remove this toll: on the one hand, in order to redress the price and social injustice represented by this levy, which undermines the purchasing power of motorists; on the other hand, to ensure the safety of motorists attending this motorway section. Minister, what measures do you intend to take to impose on the concessionaire, Escota, the removal of the Nice-Saint-Isidore toll barrier? Such abolition would guarantee greater safety and preserve the freedom of movement of Azurean and Niçois motorists, who have been paying for too long years, which is akin to an additional tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u118	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u119	Mr President, I would like to draw my attention to the dangerous nature of the Nice-Saint-Isidore roadblock. Following the dramatic accident of October 29, 2015, the Land Transportation Accident Investigation Office conducted an overall analysis. He concluded that the tragedy had been caused by a mechanical problem affecting the vehicle and by a succession of inappropriate choices on the part of the driver. The investigation office also recommended the introduction of technical measures in the descent upstream of the toll station. Escota has already initiated studies to apply these findings and thereby enhance user safety. As regards the very existence of the toll, since the A8 motorway is the only quick bypass of the city of Nice, it is provided for in the concession contract between the State and Escota. As I have already had the opportunity to stress on several occasions, any modification can only be achieved by compensating the company for the loss of profits corresponding to the revenue not collected until the end of the concession. The additional costs of operating and maintaining the traffic-related infrastructure resulting from the free payment should also be covered. The amounts at stake can amount to several tens of millions of euros, the end of the concession being set at February 2032. I would add that, legally, any amendment must be approved by decree in the Council of State, after consulting the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities, ARAFER. Recent decisions, both by the Council of State and by ARAFER, indicate that it would not be possible to charge other motorway users for this compensation by means of tariff increases or by extending the duration of the concession. However, measures are being taken under the leadership of the Government. The amount of the toll of Saint-Isidore has not changed since 2011 and its kilometric rate is lower than the rest of the Escota network. A preferential formula, negotiated by the Government last January, allows for a reduction of 30 per cent beyond 10 monthly returns. Finally, I would point out that the contract provides for free internal traffic between the broadcasters of Saint-Laurent-du Var and Nice-Saint-Augustin, as well as between those of Nice-north and Nice-est.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u120	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u121	Minister, your answer disappoints me because it reflects the lack of voluntarism that the state continues to demonstrate. As for the findings of the investigation office, which refers responsibility for the accident to a technical problem affecting the truck and excludes any physical modification of the toll barrier, they leave me completely sceptical. The barrier is located in an extremely dangerous area. There have been several dozen accidents, the severity of which is explained by the fact that the installation is located at the bottom of a large descent. For the rest, the State must finally assume its responsibilities towards a department and a city that are the only ones to suffer such a situation. The State can insure compensation pending the termination of the concession or initiate a modification of the concession contract: that's what voluntarism is! That's the one I'm inviting you to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u122	The floor is open to Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to put his question, No. 694, concerning the opening up of the Lozère.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u123	I would like to refer to the de-enclavement of the Lozère, without entering into the controversy that I regularly hear about what the State must do on one side and the regions on the other – in this case the Occitanie and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes regions. I would like to obtain precise answers from you, first of all on the RN88: we have long been waiting for two-way developments between Langogne and La Canourgue and the connection with the A75. In the last 20 years, there has been no credit entry and no process has really been initiated, except for a circumvention of Mende, which does not really correspond to the RN88 – it is a small loop – as well as studies concerning Langogne. What will the State do for this national road under the jurisdiction of the State, in liaison with the regions concerned? I would then like to ask you about the opening up of railway lines. So far, we had two national railway lines as part of the territory's balance trains. The line of the Cevennes, from Alès to Langogne, has been regionalised while the line of Béziers to Neussargues is the subject of an experiment. I would like to know what the State intends to do about financial programming. I also look forward to an answer on regionalisation: today we see all the problems that might arise from a possible discrepancy between the two regions crossed, for example Occitanie and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, one wanting to do a lot and the other perhaps less. What does the state intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u124	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u125	Mr. Deputy, the Government is fully aware of the importance of transport infrastructure for a landlocked department such as the Lozère. With regard to national roads, the State plans to pay particular attention to the development of some 20 routes providing for a de-enclave function. For example, within the framework of the infrastructure programming contained in the mobility policy bill, a € 1 billion envelope is foreseen over 10 years to improve the quality of the national road network serving rural areas, particularly in terms of safety and level of service. In Lozère, the development of the RN88 would significantly improve traffic conditions. Two operations are already included in the current State-region plan contract: the work of the Mende West Ring continues and the public investigation of the Langogne bypass is scheduled to take place in the fourth quarter of 2019. Of course, the development of the entire RN88 will be continued in future State-region planning contracts. With regard to railway lines, the State will fulfil its commitments under the Protocol on Territorial Balance Trains, signed in May 2017, and under the State-Region Plan Contract. This concerns two lines of the department: that of the Aubrac and that of the Cevennes. In view of their state of degradation, emergency work was carried out by SNCF Réseau in 2018, in particular to maintain the service of the ArcelorMittal plant on the Aubrac line. Work to adapt the infrastructure to the new rolling stock was also urgently and fully funded by the State in 2018 on the Cevennes line. More generally, more suitable new solutions should be sought to restore these lines. The Government has thus entrusted the Prefect François Philizot with a census mission to prepare and share with stakeholders an inventory of the situation of small lines at the national and regional levels. This mission should identify the different technical, organisational, financial and contractual solutions to ensure their future, and then identify the solutions identified to address legitimate concerns. In this context, it is certain that discussions will have to be initiated between the State and the communities of Lozère concerning the maintenance of these two lines, and in particular the conditions for the sustainability of the service to the industrial site of ArcelorMittal. Be assured, Mr. Member, of the Government's commitment to providing mobility solutions to landlocked territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u126	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u127	I focused on these three questions, which I think are essential, and I was well aware of the answer. I would like to remind you that the people of Lozeria have been waiting for this de-enclavement for a very long time. With regard to the RN88, of course there is Mende, of course there is Langogne, but there are also five or six dangerous segments, especially in the Lot Valley. Any budgetary guidance, any facilitation in this area would be very useful to us. Regarding the Béziers-Neussargues line, ArcelorMittal is an industrial jewel of our department: it needs this line. Without it, 15,000 trucks would be dumped on national roads and on the A75; as well as saying that the traffic would be difficult between Béziers and Clermont-Ferrand or Lyon. As for the small service line from Alès to Langogne, it is complicated, sinuous: work is needed to secure it. We therefore need the State in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u128	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 691, on compensation for noise pollution caused by the high-speed line.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u129	As regards the fight against noise pollution linked to major transport infrastructures, we had the opportunity to address the problems concerning the Sarthe department. In this case, this is the situation of the LGV – a high-speed line – towards Brittany and the Pays de la Loire, which is at the origin of important noise nuisances in several communes of the department, including Lombron, Montfort-le-Gesnois, Saint-Corneille and Savigné-l'Évêque and many others. In a previous reply, more than a year ago, Madam Minister, you told me that the prefects concerned had to organize monitoring committees to ensure compliance with the regulations by Eiffage Rail Express and that the Government was in favour of the mobilisation of the territorial solidarity fund to improve the environmental integration of the new infrastructure. Little has happened since then. For its part, the General Council on the Environment and Sustainable Development was asked by the Minister to propose solutions for the compensation of nuisances. His report, scheduled for the end of 2018, has not yet been made public, unless I am mistaken. In the state, residents and residents are still waiting. In the face of the difficulties of daily life – sleeping badly, living locked up, no longer receiving, worrying about the value of his house – they resolved to act by way of judicial remedy, less to obtain compensation than to push for the necessary work. For my part, I have proposed an amendment to the applicable regulations, bearing in mind that 20 years ago this regulation is not adapted to the measurement of current nuisances because it amounts to the average between the loudest and the weakest noises to say that they are acceptable and bearable, which is obviously not the case. I was able to see on the spot that the inhabitants were suffering in some way the equivalent of the noise of an airplane sometimes passing a few tens of meters from their home. Of course, the works dealer and the line manager are not in a hurry to see that work should be done again. The question is simple: does the Government have the political will to move the compensation work forward? Will the Government accept the principle of an amendment to the mobility policy bill to ensure that the State changes regulations and to examine problematic situations in the light of these developments? In order for our fellow citizens to accept the principle of great work – provided that it is useful and reasonable – the State must, for its part, be vigilant and supervise compensatory work when it is due, not accept delaying manoeuvres and, ultimately, ensure fairness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u130	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u131	Member of the European Parliament, the railway service in the Great West has been significantly improved by the high-speed Bretagne-Pays-de-la-Loire line since it was put into service in July 2017. However, I can assure you that I am fully aware of the difficulties encountered by some of our fellow citizens who reside near this line. I understand their concerns and strive to provide them with answers. In order to verify compliance with the sound regulations on LGVs, an on-site acoustic measurement campaign was carried out from fall 2017 to summer 2018. This shows that the noise regulations are well respected on this new line. But you also draw my attention to the relevance of this regulation, particularly in the light of the expectations of the residents. The Government's objective is to respond to their feelings, which you have addressed. We therefore need to go further to further integrate the characteristic "peaks of noise" of train passage. I have thus entrusted the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development with a mission on high-speed lines, which aims to provide concrete answers to the difficult situations experienced by the residents. The mission, whose report is due to be submitted to me very soon, consulted widely with elected representatives and associations. It visited the regions concerned to share the results of its analyses and proposals. Of course, the State will have to draw the conclusions. Beyond this operational response, which I know to be much expected locally, the Government is open to changes in rail noise regulations. Section 28 ter of the mobility guidance bill, which was the result of an amendment voted by the Senate, takes more into account the feelings of residents with regard to the "noise peaks" of rail transport. This text will be presented to the Assembly in June. I would point out that this regulatory development will have to be based on a solid and consensual scientific and technical foundation, which does not currently exist. The necessary studies will therefore have to be undertaken. But you can be assured, honourable Member, of the commitment of the State to provide concrete answers to the noise pollution on the rail.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u132	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u133	First of all, I would like to thank you, Minister, for sharing these findings and trying to solve these problems. I take note of the fact that the measures must evolve to take account of these peaks and the amendment voted by the Senate that will be debated in the National Assembly to confirm our willingness to do so with the support of the Government. We look forward to these developments and to the Council's report in order to reassure the residents and elected representatives who are asking us daily about the Government's consideration of their situation, the evolution of compensation and the work needed to improve their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u134	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to raise her question, No. 666, concerning the operation of the RER B and the project for the operation of the RER B and the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u135	Madam Minister, I would like to alert you to the difficult transport conditions experienced by users of the RER B and to the risk that the construction of the CDG Express will further exacerbate these incidents and delays. The RER B is the second busiest line in Europe. It sees almost 900000 users passing through every day. As the home-to-work journey grows longer, failures in the functioning of the RER B negatively impact the lives of the Francilian employees. These users also face problems of access to ticketing at certain stations such as Blanc-Mesnil. While the RER B requires substantial modernisation work, the State prefers to commit itself to the financing of the creation of a line, the CDG Express, a direct link between the airport and Paris. This line will largely take the tracks of the RER B. Île-de-France Mobilitys has moreover asked the State to suspend the work of the CDG Express until all technical and financial guarantees allowing the improvement of the conditions of transport of the Francilians are given. Modernising the RER B must be the priority of the public authorities. This line serves Paris and three international airports, including Charles de Gaulle. In fact, it is a gateway and an almost mandatory route, positioning itself as a showcase of the modernity of our transport and infrastructure. Line B is growing significantly, and its attendance has increased by 35% over the past 10 years. In addition to the creation of the CDG Express, which will not benefit daily users, what means will be allocated to the RER B alone in order to make this line a model of public transport for the Greater Paris metropolis and to facilitate the movement of residents, employees and tourists?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u136	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u137	Madam Member, I hear your concerns about the impact of the construction of the CDG Express on the RER B, and I know that they are shared. The aim of this project is to postpone traffic to the airport from the road to the rail, while avoiding a delicate cohabitation of RER B users with passengers carrying luggage. I have already made this very clear, particularly in this House: there is no question that the CDG Express should be at the expense of everyday transport. I repeat: there is no euro of public subsidy for this project, which will be financed at the level of 60% by its users and 40% by a tax on air tickets. I would also like to point out that of the EUR 1.8 billion invested – without any public subsidy – 530 million will finance the improvement of daily transport, in particular the RER B. I would add that improving the RER lines is a priority for plan contracts through the establishment of master plans. The RER B led to the modernization of the northern part of the line, the operation of which has been thoroughly reviewed. The rolling stock has been largely renovated and this operation will continue between 2019 and 2021. In addition, more than EUR 300 million was committed between 2015 and 2018 for the southern part of the RER B. Apart from the master plans, important infrastructure regeneration work is also carried out on the tracks and catenaries north of line B. In the field of rolling stock, Île-de-France Mobilitys plans to commission new trainsets by 2025. Even if this horizon seems distant, the Régie autonome des transports parisiennes and Transilien are making every effort to arrive at a delivery of rolling stock as soon as possible. The transportation of the daily newspaper in general, the RER B in particular, is indeed a strong axis of the government. I reiterate this here: this is my priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u138	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u139	I understand, Madam Minister, but the concern is about the start of the CDG Express work, which will take place largely on the very line of the RER B, used daily by hundreds of thousands of people. For the time being, we do not have a precise, technical response that would ease the concerns of users of this line. I hope we get that information soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u140	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to put her question, No 674, on energy saving certificates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u141	My question is for the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, but I am pleased to ask you, Madam Minister, about our climate goals. In order to prepare for the scarcity of fossil fuels and the increase in energy costs, it is essential to engage now in a consumption control approach. Among the various mechanisms in place, energy saving certificates are the major pillar of our action on energy efficiency. Organised in three-year periods, they aim to achieve savings in various sectors: construction mainly, but also industry, transport and agriculture. The fourth period, which runs from 2018 to 2020, doubles the energy savings target to be achieved compared to the previous period. However, there are uncertainties about the extension of this fourth period beyond 2020, as well as about the objectives of the fifth and sixth periods. It is absolutely essential, however, to announce the ambition and objectives of the coming periods at a very early stage in order to enable all sectors, investors and the obliged ones of this mechanism to prepare themselves. In order to meet our own climate goals, it would also be essential to revise the target upwards. The EWC scheme is a proven financing tool and has the advantage of not weighing on public finances. This tool should also be improved by strengthening checks when issuing certificates in order to avoid fraud, in particular reported by Tracfin. It is also essential to direct aid more towards high-performance projects and, above all, to modest households for better support for the most precarious. I would therefore like to know the timetable and level of ambition chosen for the next periods of the EEC arrangements, as well as the ways in which the mechanism can be modernised and investment directed towards those who need it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u142	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u143	Madam Member of Parliament, the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, cannot be present, he has instructed me to answer you. The Energy Conservation Certificates Scheme is an efficient scheme that so far mobilises about 100 compulsory companies, supported by 27 delegated companies, local authorities, social donors, the National Housing Agency and many partners. This collective mobilization is valuable and allows to generate energy savings in all sectors, residential, tertiary, industry, agriculture, networks, transport. In the fourth period, the actions triggered by the EEC will mobilise between EUR 8 and 10 billion in three years, half of which will benefit households in situations of energy insecurity. They will save 92 terawatt hours each year for 15 years, which corresponds to more than EUR 150 billion saved by consumers. Recently, several decisions have been taken to increase energy saving dynamics, increase the readability of incentives offered to households and the requirements for delegated enterprises. In addition, the multi-annual energy programming project plans to give greater visibility to the extended EWC arrangements over the coming decade and to set the targets for the fifth and sixth periods at the beginning of 2020. These will have to be ambitious and reflect the European and French objectives in terms of energy savings. The Environment and Energy Management Agency and the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate, DGEC, have launched two studies to base the construction of the objectives of future EWC bond periods. Until then, in response to a request from several stakeholders, the one-year extension of the fourth period of the EWC scheme, with a total obligation of at least 2133 terawatt hours cumac, is subject to consultation until the end of March 2019. Finally, with regard to the strengthening of controls, a provision is provided for in the draft energy-climate law which will be discussed in Parliament before the summer. This is a priority for the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u144	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u145	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. I understand that the effort is being stepped up, particularly with regard to the results for the companies obliged. I take note of the willingness to monitor and support the concept of training for companies. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u146	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to put his question, No. 684, on sediments in the Rance estuary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u147	On several occasions, I have had the opportunity to question the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition and yourself, the Minister, about the oversediment of the estuary of La Rance. This coastal river is facing an increasingly critical ecological situation due to the extension of its estuary siltation phenomenon. This silt should be reduced to the maximum in order to preserve uses, in particular maritime traffic, and the increase in volumes which continue to be deposited should be stopped. This oversediment was aggravated by the creation in 1963 of the unique Rance tidal plant, which produces electricity with the movement of tides. To respond to this siltation phenomenon, local actors have mobilized and implemented different methods of extraction. I must admit that with the support of the State services, the last operation known as "Lyvet III" could finally be undertaken. But these operations are notoriously insufficient and an experimental sediment management programme has been set up for the years 2019-2022 to extract 50,000 cubic metres per year for an estimated total amount of €6 million. We are far from having gathered all these funds and our aim is to set up an ecological tariff for the purchase of electricity produced by the Rance tidal plant, which is currently classified as a conventional hydraulic dam despite the renewable nature of the energy source constituted by the tides. We ask that this energy be classified as renewable energy, which it is in fact, and that it be provided with a clean support mechanism such as offshore wind turbines. For this, an amendment to the concession contract of the tidal plant is necessary. Together with my colleagues, Senator Michel Vaspart and Hervé Berville, who amnihilates me by being at my side to show unity on this issue, together with MEP Alain Cadec, I have met the European Commissioner in charge of this issue, who appeared to us to be very supportive of our position and who is now asking the French Government to refer this matter to the European authorities. So, Madam Minister, my question is simple: will your government agree to refer this request to the European competition commissioner, Mrs Vestager, for an amendment to the concession contract of the Rance tidal plant?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u148	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u149	You interviewed Mr. François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. You draw his attention to the issue of sediment management in the Rance. I understand the concerns of the actors in this territory and the residents. Sediments have accumulated in the estuary and, despite significant sediment management efforts, significant changes are observed in this remarkable ecosystem. The report published in May 2017 following a joint mission of the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development and the General Council for the Economy could not determine whether the presence of the dam was at the origin or accelerated the siltation found, but it allowed to identify several avenues of solutions to avoid a sustainable siltation of the estuary. As he advocated, the "Lyvet III", supported by the Emerald Heart Association, was set up to drain the Lyvet's mud trap at a cost of 1.5 million. As also recommended by the Mission, the sediment management operation was entrusted to a single project management structure, the Rance-Frémur Public Territorial Facility, which is responsible for the continuation of five-year experiments. In less than two years, governance has been profoundly renewed on this part of the Rance estuary. It is now four jurisdictions that combine their expertise and expertise to implement the sediment management plan: the steering committee co-chaired by the chair of the regional council and the regional prefect, the funding committee, the local Rance-Frémur-Baie water commission in Beausais and the scientific council set up last September. The Government gives all its confidence to Mrs. La Préfète de région Bretagne and Mrs. La Subpréfète de Dinan for the continuation of the environmental testing and monitoring operations. Funding for the five-year programme remains a crucial issue. I do not believe, however, that the creation of a specific ecological tax on electricity produced by the Rance tidal plant is the option to be preferred in the short term. I believe more in the synergies that can be deployed by all public and private actors for the success of this project. EDF thus increased its participation by 50 % instead of 40 % for the sediment management 2017-2023, with the aim of providing for the financing of the works the parity between EDF and the other financiers. That is also the meaning of the response that I had the opportunity to give to Senator Sylvie Robert last November. I can assure you of the Government's vigilance with regard to the implementation of these partnerships, and I also know how to count on the parliamentary representatives of Ille-et-Vilaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u150	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u151	Thank you for that answer. Of course, we recognize the progress you have just made, as I have just said. Nevertheless, the amount of sediment that continues to increase on the Rance remains very high and is renewed after each extraction. We therefore consider that additional funding will be needed to carry out the necessary work: 3.7 million was raised out of an estimated amount of 6 million. We have taken an interest in the European Parliament because, in our view, the Rance tidal plant is a unique, highly innovative equipment for electricity generation and fully corresponds to the taxation of offshore and other wind energy. We insist that contacts be made with the European Parliament. The European Commissioner, whom we have met, considers that this is perfectly within the framework of ecological taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u152	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to put her question, No 685, on the Swiss project for wind turbines in Bel Coster.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u153	I would like to ask you about wind projects on Swiss territory, at the border with France, which will have a significant impact in my constituency: the Bel Coster and Montagne de la Butte projects. The Doubs prefecture was consulted, in particular as part of the commitment of the Espoo International Convention, which allows for an exchange between the countries concerned to mitigate the transboundary impacts of the project due to the proximity of certain wind turbines to the border. Following the public inquiry, the prefect of the Doubs issued an unfavourable opinion. I have been asked on several occasions by the population of Haut-Doubs, of which about ten communes are directly affected by the project. The Haut-Doubs and the Haut-Jura are natural mountain areas to protect, especially because of the fauna and flora, the quality – indispensable – of pastures in the AOP County area, and tourist issues thanks to many assets such as landscapes and the practice of mountain sports, summer and winter. In the commune of Jougne, the elected representatives fear that the facilities will damage the only source that supplies nearly 2000 inhabitants with drinking water and strongly oppose the project, like the other municipalities concerned. However, the Swiss authorities seem to want to continue the project despite the unfavourable opinion of the French authorities and the reprobation of the local population. I would also like to alert you to this very sensitive issue with important consequences and ask you what support you can give, not only to the local people whose claims are, I believe, legitimate, but also to the prefectural authorities, who represent the state in the region?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u154	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u155	Madam Member, the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, could not be present today. So he asked me to answer you. The Bel Coster land wind farm project, which you mention, will have nine wind turbines, southwest of the Suchet massif, in the Swiss canton of Vaud. It is close to our border, 1.2 km and 2 km respectively from the French communes of Entre-les-Fourgs and Jougne. In the case of such a project, France and Switzerland shall implement the principles laid down in the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context, known as the "Espoo Convention", adopted in 1991. It requires the signatory States – here in Switzerland – to assess the environmental impact of certain activities before they are carried out and to notify the other signatory States of activities that may have an adverse transboundary impact on their environment so that they can participate in the project assessment procedure. This Convention applies explicitly to wind projects since 23 October 2017 and the entry into force of the second amendment to the Espoo Convention. With regard to the Bel Coster project, the Espoo Convention had been applied and exchanges between the State services and the canton of Vaud had proved to be constructive. Following the notification of this project by Switzerland, an investigation of the case was carried out on the French side, including a consultation of the State services and a public inquiry which took place from 2 May to 6 June 2017. In conclusion of this instruction, the Prefect of the Doubs asked the Swiss authorities on 25 August 2017 to provide a justification for the treatment of the issues on the French side and to put in place additional measures for the project. The latter concern in particular the protection of the drinking water supply in the commune of Jougne. This exchange also led to the creation of a Franco-Swiss working group to address the issue of transboundary impact and to the commitment by the Swiss authorities to integrate all the requests made by an approved hydrogeologist appointed by the French authorities. Exchanges between administrations are ongoing. A meeting to present further studies to local elected officials is scheduled to take place on 12 April. This case shows that Franco-Swiss cooperation on the issue of wind farms, within the framework of the Espoo Convention, enables effective cooperation and consideration of the issues of foreign projects in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u156	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u157	I understand that Mr de Rugy is speaking through you, but through you I would like to alert him to the unsatisfactory nature of his answer. If it were not, if this Espoo convention solved all the problems, I do not see why the local elected representatives concerned, the local population, would react as they do. Concerns exist about the water resource and, as well, about the landscape impacts – this is also the case for the other project, Montagne de la Butte. Wind turbines are installed on Swiss territory, which will reap all the benefits, especially financial ones, and all the disadvantages are on the French side. Where is the balance that should prevail with this type of project? Nowhere. We will therefore continue to fight against these wind farms, which satisfy the interests of Switzerland on one side only. We cannot be satisfied with the answers she has given, regardless of our comments and criticisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u158	Mrs Lasserre-David has the floor to raise her question, No. 688, on incentives for the energy performance of buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u159	On the occasion of the announcement of the climate plan on 6 July 2017, it was confirmed that energy renewal was a national priority. The French authorities have therefore resolutely directed their strategies towards incentives for renovation, increased investment in the renovation of housing and tertiary buildings, the desire to increase the value of energy-intensive goods at the time of the transaction, and investment in the training of building professionals. The fight against energy insecurity is one of the Government's priorities and receives significant support from the State. However – consumer associations regularly question the national representation on this subject – the support mechanisms for energy renewal are too complex and too numerous to be fully effective. There is an urgent need for simplification, pedagogy and support in this sector in order to ensure access to it for as many people as possible, in particular by finally putting in place the service of the energy performance of the housing provided for in the Energy Transition Law for Green Growth 2015. To date, despite numerous attempts and repeated demands from communities, national funding for this public service has not been secured and is an undeniable impediment to the development of the massification of renovation operations. The purpose of this public service is to provide shelter, information and advice to households in order to guide them in their energy renovation work. Fortunately, some communities have begun to develop such a public service, but they lack national coordination, sustainable and adequate funding. While the implementation of the public service of the energy performance of the housing is reaffirmed in the energy renovation plan presented in April 2018, I wonder about the Government's ambitions on this subject. If, in France, the aid for energy renovation is not lacking – tax credit for the energy transition, eco-loan at zero rate, energy premiums... – these are nevertheless very unstable, change according to each finance bill and are too often ignored by the French and professionals. It is high time that things changed in the face of the climate emergency and that we brought legibility and stability to this regulation. Be assured that you will always have the support of many of my colleagues and mine to drive the public service of energy performance and habitat. The time allocated to me allows me to question you on a second point: the future of energy saving certificates, the EEC. The EWCs are now indispensable and indispensable for the implementation of the energy renewal policy in our country. Since its creation in 2016, this innovative scheme has demonstrated its effectiveness in terms of both public finances and ecology. With regard to the energy renovation of housing, everyone welcomes the improvement of the measures to replace old boilers with efficient boilers with renewable energy or gas, as well as for the insulation of roofs and floors. This action has helped individuals to get out of the less efficient fossil fuels, isolate their homes and thus significantly reduce their heating bills. Despite its growing success, it could be better known and, above all, more effective. Indeed, if it has allowed the realization of works with the symbolic euro, it must be rethought in order not to be used for the financing of isolated actions but to support a long-term vision of a successful renovation of the habitat. It would then fully fulfil its threefold objective: to alleviate the cost of the energy transition for households while giving France the means of its ambitions without increasing the burden on the State. For example, I would like to know what measures the Government intends to implement in order to give full scope, over time and in the light of ambitious renovations, to the scheme of energy saving certificates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u160	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u161	You interviewed Mr. François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The Energy Renovation of Buildings Plan commits the State to the establishment of a process of simplification of the systems of aid for renovation as well as regulatory changes, both in the tertiary and residential sectors. It also encourages the deployment of information and support processes for households. To this end, we can note the contribution of the territorial energy renewal platforms for the support of households and, locally, for the carrying out of energy audits in the territories where they have been tested, with the help of ADEME, the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management. In this context, avenues have been explored to finance tools to facilitate the implementation of the public service for the energy performance of the habitat. The EWC system is efficient. To date, it has mobilized approximately 130 companies, local authorities, social donors, ANAH and the National Housing Agency. This collective mobilization is valuable. In the fourth period, the actions triggered by the EEC will mobilise between EUR 8 and 10 billion in three years, half of which will benefit households in situations of energy insecurity. A number of recent decisions have been taken to increase energy saving dynamics and to increase the readability of incentives offered to households. The multi-annual energy programming project plans to give greater visibility to the EWC arrangements, which have been extended over the next decade, and to set the targets for the fifth and sixth periods at the beginning of 2020. These will have to be ambitious and reflect the European and French objectives in terms of energy savings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u162	Mr Erwan Balanant, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 689, on the stabilization of the number of saucas in towers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u163	For many months now, I have been working with farmers in my territory on a phenomenon that disrupts all the inhabitants of the area: the proliferation of saucas of towers, corvids whose population exceeds 200000 birds in Finistère. This species is protected by a Ministerial Order of 29 October 2009. It is also protected at European level under Directive 2009/ 147/EC of 30 November 2009. Episodicly, working meetings are held between state departments, associations and the Chamber of Agriculture to study solutions that can stem what constitutes a scourge and a real concern for farmers and citizens. At present, farmers are resigned to the phenomenon. Not being able to be reimbursed for the damage caused to their crops, any statement seems futile and useless to them. However, damage can be very important when a choucas cloud eats the last seedlings. For farmers, it is a significant stress and financial cost. The relationship between the authorization to collect and the proliferation of these sauercas is too unbalanced to limit, if not only stabilize, the increase in the species. Finally, this overpopulation of sauerca is not without consequences on other birds and wildlife. To combat the phenomenon, a derogation bringing the levy to 5000 birds was granted in 2017. This increase in firing is a first response but it does not allow to stem the phenomenon. This proliferation of one species affects farmers as well as many other inhabitants of the territory. You have to imagine the scenes of Hitchcock's movie, The Birds. The clouds of sauercas, which are very important above Quimperlé, for example, disturb the inhabitants who want to enjoy their garden during the fine days. After having already asked the minister about this, I ask you today: what means are you contemplating to stem this phenomenon, since the only levy will not be enough? For my part, I believe that a study should be carried out on the reasons for this proliferation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u164	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u165	Mr President, you have asked Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The saucas of the towers is a species of bird present throughout the metropolitan territory, with the exception of South-West and Corsica. Nationally, its breeding population was estimated at between 150,000 and 300,000 pairs. Its wintering population is estimated at one million individuals. Choucas is classified at the "minor concern" level on the 2016 National Red List for the assessment of the conservation status of species. The saucas of the towers is indeed a protected species in France. As such, its destruction is prohibited, except as provided for in the Environmental Code. In western France, and particularly in some Breton departments, the population of sauercas has increased sharply since the 1990s and can cause crop damage. In order to limit this damage, derogations from the prohibition of destruction of the species have been granted in Finistère since 2007, and in Côtes-d'Armor and Morbihan, more recently. In Finistère, a department where this problem is the strongest, the collection of 5000 birds, accompanied by scare measures, was authorised in 2018. These samples are taken by the loverage lieutenants who devoted most of their intervention to this operation. This intervention will be repeated this year in the Finistère. The collection, which will be increased to some 7,000 birds, will be spread over five areas of the most affected department, in order to minimize damage to crops. But this situation is not sustainable. It is important to understand why some bird species desert our countryside while others, more opportunistic, benefit from the increase in food resources available from new agricultural productions. Long-term control of tower sauerca populations involves reasoned methods of prevention and control. It will necessarily have to go through, among other things, the reduction of access to these food resources at the farm level. To this end, a research programme analysing the causes of the demographic dynamics of tower sauercas, and identifying the most suitable solutions to limit crop damage, appears necessary. The Minister of State has proposed to the Minister of Agriculture that the administrations concerned – those of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Agriculture – meet quickly at their national and local levels in order to define the terms of reference of such a programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u166	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u167	I insist that this is a real concern and we must respond to it because it is linked to the relationship that urban dwellers and farmers have with nature. There should not be misunderstandings as this can happen with other species. We need to work together to find lasting solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u168	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to put her question, No 690, on the effect of magnetic fields on livestock farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u169	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the problems caused by the electrical parasites produced by electromagnetic fields, which are attributed by breeders in Sarthe and other departments to harmful effects on the health and yield of their livestock. A couple of Loué chicken breeders and limousine cows from my constituency alerted me to this phenomenon. While they had never encountered real difficulties in the past, these spouses began to develop strong migraines and recurrent insomnia. As for their animals, they had problems with productivity and fertility. It is on this point that I wish to question you today. By successive exclusion of the possible causes of these ills, it was finally established that the origin of the problem could be in the implantation, concomitant with the appearance of symptoms, of a relay antenna near their exploitation. The worsening of these symptoms also corresponded to the increase in antenna power with the transition from 3G to 4G. Finally, it was established that this case was not isolated. The story of this couple has led an environmental protection association in my constituency to bring together all the affected farmers and help them. Breeders have been identified in Sarthe, Mayenne, Orne and Eure-et-Loir. I can assure you that their testimonies are very poignant. In reporting this type of problem, breeders are often referred to their own responsibility. They are often in a state of moral distress. Expertise operations, aimed at determining the origin of the problem, are gradually driving them into financial ruin. The issue is not new and it has already been the subject of numerous parliamentary reports. The Gordian node remains evidence of a causal link between the relay antenna and the symptoms developed by the animals. Far from calling into question the need to ensure digital coverage of the territory, particularly with the forthcoming development of 5G, it is up to the State to question its possible consequences on French breeding. I would also like to ask you for an update on these phenomena, and I would like to know what action the Government could take.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u170	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u171	Madam Member of Parliament, you have asked the Government about the exposure of cattle to electromagnetic waves. To date, national and international expertise does not conclude for humans that there are health risks associated with exposure to electromagnetic fields emitted by mobile telephone relay antennas, provided that the public exposure limit values of Decree No 2002-775 of 3 May 2002 are respected. For power stations above 5 watts, the National Frequency Agency – ANFR – is responsible for verifying that the limit values of the above-mentioned decree are respected. It should be noted that any person can ask the ANFR that a free measure of exposure to electromagnetic waves be made in his or her home. As far as animals are concerned, no scientific publication has been identified highlighting possible adverse effects from mobile telephone antennas. The breeders you mention think that their animals are affected by phenomena of electric currents parasites in the breeding. However, a structure exists to carry out expertise on electrical safety and the parasitic phenomena encountered in farms: the Permanent Group for Agricultural Electrical Safety – GPSE. This group is interested in three aspects – electrical, veterinary and zootechnical – in order to find the most suitable solution to the problems faced by farmers. With regard to the deployment of 5G communication infrastructures, the aim is to encourage the development of new innovative services for individuals and user companies in a variety of areas such as health, media, transport and future industries. In order to examine the exposure to electromagnetic waves due to these new technological developments and to assess their possible health impact, the Directorate-General for Health, the Directorate-General for Risk Prevention and the Directorate-General for Enterprise seized, at the end of 2018, the National Agency for Health, Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES. A first interim report will be available in the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u172	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u173	Let me stress the plight of these farmers. Their testimonies are poignant, multiple and consistent. These farmers are demanding state protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u174	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u175	The Conference of Presidents, meeting this morning, agreed on the agenda proposals for the 29 April monitoring week: Discussion on the industrial policy of the Government: neither defensive nor offensive; Debate on the information report of the Evaluation and Monitoring Committee on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime; Questions on the Government's policy on the maintenance of public services in the Territory; Questions on the implementation of the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence; Declaration by the Government pursuant to Article 50-1 of the Constitution, followed by a debate and a vote, on the draft stability programme 2019-2023; Discussion on the social impact of work orders. In the absence of any objection, it was so decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-02-O1201.u176	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate on the ecological transition. The meeting is adjourned.
