ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u1	I inform the National Assembly that the President took note of the cessation, on April 30, 2019 at midnight, of the term of office of Member of Parliament for Amélie de Montchalin, appointed as a member of the Government by decree of March 31, 2019. By a communication from the Minister of the Interior dated April 17, 2019, made pursuant to sections L.O. 176 and L.O. 179 of the electoral code, the president was informed of her replacement by Ms. Stephanie Atger, elected at the same time as she for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u2	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Pascal Bois and others on the establishment of the National Music Centre (No. 1813, 1883).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u3	Mr Pascal Bois, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u4	"Music hunts hatred among those who are without love. She gives peace to those who are without rest, she consoles those who weep. It is with this beautiful quote by Spanish cellist and composer Pablo Casals that I have the honour to present this bill to you. It seems to me all the more appropriate because this musician, a fervent republican, was particularly distinguished by his initiatives in favour of access to music. However, I believe that with the creation of the future National Music Centre, we are working towards the democratization of music. Through it, we are taking this additional step which is the result of a project involving the music industry and all its actors for years. You are one of those actors, Minister, you who are the originator of a parliamentary report, which you drafted in 2011, and who are, I know, a true ally. This isn't about flaking on my part; I would like to point out your interest in the subject matter and the perseverance that we have had to demonstrate in order to bring the project to a successful conclusion. We also owe this success to the voluntarism of your predecessor, Françoise Nyssen, as well as to the political courage of this majority, which shows how much she knows how to move from words to deeds. To return to the subject, it seems essential to recall a few facts. Music, both in exercise and in listening, is the first cultural practice of the French and remains a powerful lever of emancipation for both virtuosos and neophytes. It makes us discover other cultures and languages. It is indispensable in our festive moments, while accentuating the solemnity of our commemorations. I think I can say that everyone can associate a song, a chorus, words at a specific moment in their history or in our collective history. Its economic weight is also considerable: with 8.7 billion euros and more than 240,000 jobs, it is the second largest cultural industry in our country and participates in its international reach. However, its potential is not considered at its fair value: it is the last living art that still does not have a national center, unlike other disciplines, dance, book, theatre, street and circus arts as well, of course, cinema, with the CNC – the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image – created in 1946. In addition, its sector is fragmented and does not have the means of observation to enable it to object to the use of the financial assistance provided to it by the central administration. Finally, its ecosystem has been heavily affected by successive developments in the sector, in particular mass piracy, the evolution of practices, allowing unlimited listening, and the digital revolution, with the phenomenon of streaming. While the growth of the channel allows the industry to return to growth, it also poses threats to cultural diversity, since streaming platforms are not regulated and the algorithms they use amplify a concentration of the listening of already known artists and the most popular genres, to the detriment of revelations. That is to say, the creation of the National Music Centre has multiple stakes. The first is to enable the Government to develop a long-term strategy for public music policy and to establish the conditions for partnership with local communities and collective management organizations. Secondly, it is a matter of bringing together a whole sector, thus better structured, to support the creation, international reach of our artists and professionals in production, publishing, promotion, distribution and dissemination. Thirdly, it is a matter of ensuring the diversity of the components and aesthetic dimensions of music, including live entertainment and varieties – we have been vigilant in this regard. Fourthly, the aim is to coordinate information, vocational training and artistic and cultural education at territorial level, in partnership with the devolved services. In this respect, we will be debating an amendment that we were very interested in but that we were unable to table in committee, because it was found to be contrary to Article 40 of the Constitution. Fifthly, the aim is to provide the sector and the State with an observatory to produce and acquire data and studies to measure the sector and guide public policies, which will allow the identification of financial support schemes to be retained, abolished or created. The sixth objective is to promote innovation in order to anticipate technological change and security constraints, and to provide itself with the means to be offensive in order to take advantage of immense opportunities from which France cannot exclude itself. All these issues and objectives have led me to table this bill, in line with the conclusions of the report that Émilie Cariou and I submitted to the Prime Minister last January, which marks the culmination of a much earlier reflection – as I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks –, led in particular by Mr.Roch-Olivier Maistre at the beginning of the legislature. This bill is at the service of artists: it is the legislative translation of the wish expressed almost unanimously by the music industry during the hearings that I conducted and the many exchanges that I could have had. Its text is intended to be effective and concise, since most of the provisions relating to the operation of a public establishment fall within the regulatory area. It lays down the main principles which should govern the work of the NJC: the status of EPIC, a public institution of an industrial and commercial nature; general support function for the whole sector, in its diversity – management of an observatory, role of information and vocational training, support for export, technological monitoring – definition of a series of more precise missions, with intervention mechanisms to assist the production, distribution, publishing or direct instruction of phonographic tax credits and live entertainment. With regard to its governance, the NJC is under the supervision of the Minister of Culture and is to be administered by a board of directors and headed by a chairman appointed on the proposal of the Minister of Culture. I would point out that there are currently consultation meetings, under the chairmanship of Catherine Ruggeri, on the organisation of the NJC, which will lead to the drafting of decrees on the functioning of the future Centre, which will enable it to be operational on 1 January 2020. With regard to its scope, the new institution will bring together many levers of public action, now operated by various structures: the CNV – National Centre for Song, Varieties and Jazz – and the two associations, the FCM – Fonds pour la création musicale – and the MRIA – Information and Resources Centre for current music. We could also join the Bureau export de la musique française, as well as the association CALIF – Club action des labeles et des disquaires indépendants français – which recently expressed its will. Two of the Government's amendments, which I wish to adopt, are intended to allow for the accession of these two new members. I would like to point out, with regard to these groups, that particular attention will have to be paid to the management of the transfer of personnel. With regard to its resources, the text allows the NJC to benefit from the tax on performances whose product is currently allocated to the NVC. Beyond the current resources of the structures, the text does not exclude any other possibility, but this subject will be the subject of the next budgetary debate. Our committee has made improvements to the text by adopting forty amendments, often identical, from all groups. First, she clarified that the NJC's scope of intervention included variety shows. Secondly, it added the mention of creation in the activities with particular support from the NJC. This has enabled us to recall that there can be no production, exploitation and dissemination without prior creation. We have enriched the CNM's missions by entrusting it with valuing the musical heritage, in conjunction with other public and associative structures also competent in this field. We have ensured that he can carry out his missions in coordination with the local authorities, the first supporters of the music policy. In addition, the committee adopted an amendment enabling the existence of the intervention fund for the security of cultural sites and events to be maintained in law. With regard to governance, the Commission has established a professional council. This body, which will closely involve the music sector in determining the NJC's priorities, was one of the proposals in my foresight report. Finally, we have adopted a new wording of Article 5 which logically provides for accessions to be made with the agreement of the bodies concerned, while respecting the freedom of association. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] In conclusion, I firmly believe that the creation of this National Centre, which embodies the sector around common issues, is necessary. We need it, more than ever, to ensure the influence of our artists and the development of an environment that guarantees a rich and diverse creation, dear to our principle of cultural exception. I let you meditate on this quote from Victor Hugo, calling for the passage of the bill: "Music is the vapor of art. It is to poetry what dreaming is to thought, what fluid is to liquid, what the ocean of clouds is to the ocean of waves. So let us make sure, ladies and gentlemen, that music allows us to bring the eloquence of our debates to a successful conclusion within a framework of great unanimity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u5	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u6	It is a great pleasure for me, I do not hide from you, to be at the National Assembly Hall this afternoon to consider the bill to establish the National Music Centre. It is a project to which, as you know, I am very attached: nine years ago – you referred to it, Mr. Rapporteur – I participated in the first report on the subject, alongside Alain Chambort, Daniel Colling, Marc Thonon and Didier Selles, not to mention Jean-Baptiste Gourdin, here at the bench of the Government Commissioners. Unfortunately, our recommendations had not been followed, and the political choices at the beginning of the previous quinquennium had led to this project being put to sleep. But today, here we are! The adoption of this law will finally allow the National Music Centre to see the light of day, from 1 January next. It's an ambitious deadline, I know. To hold it, we can collectively rely on the in-depth preliminary work, in particular those led by Roch-Olivier Maistre, whose report "Rassemble music for a national centre" was widely praised by the professionals in the music sector and many of you, but also those led by the rapporteur and Émilie Cariou, whom I greet and thank. After a broad consultation with all stakeholders, your pre-figuration report was submitted in January to the Prime Minister, who affirmed his wish to see this centre set up on 1 January 2020. This work converges very widely and confirms the need to create a common house for music. Music is the first cultural practice of the French. It is democratic art par excellence, which allows, even more than others, to break down cultural and social barriers. Because music has this universal that it speaks to each of us; because there is no requirement to be moved by a melody; because it is not necessary to know the history of classical music to vibrate the sound of Renaud Capuçon's violin; because there is no need to understand the words of Aya Nakamura to be able to sing them. Music is also a powerful lever of freedom, including in the priority areas of city politics or in remote rural areas. From NTM yesterday until PNL today, how many artists come from these neighborhoods that they were told they could never go out? From Madeon to Kungs, how many DJs have been revealed by posting remixes on SoundCloud or YouTube from their room? Music is finally one of the country's main cultural industries, thanks to its economic dynamism and international influence. Some weeks ago, the presence of DJ Snake, Chris and Charlotte Gainsbourg on the scenes of the prestigious Coachella festival was a highlight. In the space of a few years, this industry has undergone a profound transformation – it has not escaped you – through the rise of digital technology and the revolution of listening modes. Over the past 15 years, the phonographic industry has experienced a major crisis, particularly as a result of mass piracy, with a 60% decline in sales between 2002 and 2015. The industry now seems to have overcome the crisis it has experienced. Since 2016, it has been resuming growth, mainly thanks to the growth of flow broadcasting – the minister in charge of la francophonie cannot use, especially in this Chamber, another expression, but you have understood what I wanted to talk about... However, caution should be exercised. The sector remains fragile in several respects. Streamcasting can pose threats to musical diversity, with a risk of focusing on some of the most popular artists and musical genres, reinforced by platform recommendation algorithms. More broadly, the dominant position of a few large platforms can weaken the musical ecosystem. The growth of these new modes of dissemination erases borders and increases international competition. This is a great opportunity for the dissemination of French artists abroad, but it is also potentially a threat to the place of French, French and European musical creation in our country. The live musical show has enjoyed remarkable dynamism in recent years, despite the infamous attacks it has suffered, from Paris to Manchester. Again, music has demonstrated its power of gathering and communion. However, this sector is also exposed to the risk of excessive concentration. Last year he experienced a slowdown in his activity, which everyone hopes is purely economic. On the other hand, the distinction between live and recorded music is becoming less and less effective. The actors now design their artistic and economic development in an increasingly integrated way, in so-called strategies, imaginatively, "to 360 degrees", which put the creator, be he author, performer or composer, at the centre of the project. These profound upheavals have caused the old cleavages to break out. It is time to draw the consequences for the organisation of public policies. It is time to streamline, adapt and strengthen our tools for supporting, accompaniment and observation of the music industry. It's time to bring them together in a common house. It's all the object of the National Music Centre. It will have to be at the service of the entire music industry and all aesthetics. It will be turned entirely to the creators. Its economic support will be designed to promote cultural diversity and foster innovation. It will place the territorial and international dimensions at the heart of its action. It will complement and amplify the daily action of the regional directorates of cultural affairs of my ministry in the musical field, in close connection, of course, with the local authorities. In addition, it will have an essential task of observation, monitoring and foresight. The studies to be carried out under this heading will both assess the effectiveness of the support schemes – I am thinking in particular of the tax credits, which Parliament, in discussing the 2019 budget appropriations, wanted them to be better monitored – and to shed light on the challenges of sharing value, accompanying the digital transition and promoting musical diversity in the face of the phenomena of concentration. These studies will thus be able to feed into the reflections on the improvement of our regulatory mechanisms, which will remain the responsibility of the central administration. In order to prepare the conditions for the establishment of the Centre national de la musique, at the end of March I set up an operational committee, whose chair I entrusted to the Inspector General of Cultural Affairs Catherine Ruggeri, who had worked nine years ago with Didier Selles and Jean-Baptiste Gourdin. Through her long experience in the cultural and musical field, her knowledge of administration and her ability to take into account the positions of all actors, she seemed to me the most able person to carry out this delicate mission. The committee it chairs, which has met weekly for more than a month now, is composed of the directors of the structures to be federated within the NJC and the competent departments of the Ministry of Culture. Based on this bill, this committee's mission is to conduct all legal, budgetary, administrative, real estate, computer and social projects leading to the creation of the National Music Centre in early 2020. I particularly stress the human dimension of the project. I would like special attention to be paid to the employees of the various bodies responsible for integrating the NJC and to the conditions for their transfer. I have also hoped, always in a spirit of consultation and accession, that the actors and professionals in the sector will be fully involved in these reflections. For example, a pre-figuration committee, which includes all the representatives of the industry, was set up to exchange regularly with Catherine Ruggeri and the operational committee. It met for the first time last Friday, and I know that the discussions have been fruitful, in particular on the text we are now debating. It will meet regularly until the end of the year in order to continue the common reflection. The National Music Centre project has long been close to my heart, as I said at the beginning of my speech. You can really count on me to put all my energy and all my will at the service of its realization. Dear Pascal Bois, I am at your side to defend the diversity of musical creation, which is so dear to us. This project represents a new impetus for the music industry. This bill offers new guarantees for its actors. The text is coherent and balanced. That is why the Government fully supports this parliamentary initiative. I would like to thank you, my dear Pascal Bois, who is the author of the report, but also, beyond that, all the members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, with whom my ministry has been able to carry out fruitful work, and of which I greet the chairman, my dear Bruno Studer. I have followed with great interest your debates in committee, and I welcome the points of agreement that your work has reached. In particular, I would like to welcome several developments adopted in the committee, which the Government fully supports. You have thus brought valuable enrichments to the definition of the missions entrusted to the future National Music Centre. I am thinking of the explicit addition of musical creation, fully in line with the Government's desire to place artists at the heart of the NJC's missions. I am also thinking of the mission of valuing musical heritage, an important aspect of cultural policy in favour of music, in connection with the missions of outreach and transmission. The Centre national de la musique will of course have to ensure that its action in this field is linked with that of the BNF – the Bibliothèque nationale de France – which remains the holder of the mission of conservation of the musical heritage, and that of the Cité de la Musique – Philharmonie de Paris, whose museum organizes remarkable exhibitions, such as Électro, which is currently taking place. I would now like to refer to the amendments that I wish to submit to you on behalf of the Government. Some of them also include amendments which, because of inadmissibility under Article 40 of the Constitution, could not be adopted in committee; I know they will meet with the membership of many of you. In order to continue to enrich the NJC's missions, we wish to entrust it with competences in the field of artistic and cultural education, which will have to be exercised in coordination and complementarity with existing actors, in particular the regional directorates of cultural affairs and local and regional authorities. We also wish to introduce into the law the possibility for collective management bodies to pay to the NJC part of the sums they are required to allocate to their cultural and educational activities. It is necessary to allow the NJC to receive the private funding now allocated to the associative structures it will gather. Beyond the preservation of the existing one, it is a means of encouraging the mutualisation and rationalisation of support for music, in a logic of public-private partnership, as long as the actors concerned so decide. Finally, we want to open up the possibility for two other organisations to join the CNM – if and only if, of course, their boards of directors so decide, with full respect for the freedom of association. The National Centre for Song, Variety and Jazz – CNV –, the Fonds pour la création musicale – FCM – and the Centre d'information et de ressources pour les musiques actuelles – IRMA – were already included in the original proposal. As you explained, rapporteur, in addition to these organizations, we propose to add the Bureau export de la musique française – BUREX – and the Club action des labeles et des disquaires indépendants français – CALIF. The integration of the BUREX is consistent with the NJC's missions, since it will have to ensure the export support and outreach of our musical creation. This integration had been envisaged in the two reports I mentioned, but things were not sufficiently mature. Since then, discussions with BUREX and the professional organisations that fund it have shown that there is a shared desire for integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u8	I see this as a sign of the positive and virtuous dynamics surrounding the National Music Centre project, particularly since the tabling of the bill that we are debating this afternoon. The CALIF, an association supporting independent stores, has also confirmed its wish to join the common house. Its integration is consistent with the 360 degree vision that drives the project. Indeed, while the CNM must support innovation and accompany the digital transition of the sector, it must not abandon physical distribution, which still accounts for almost half of sales – for example, the development of the vinyl record market is becoming more and more important. Above all, the integration of the CALIF will strengthen the NJC's territorial anchor, of which I want to make an essential axis of the project. It will demonstrate our commitment to the preservation and development of cultural businesses, which, as you know, play an essential role in the animation and cohesion of the territories. We will have the opportunity, during our debate, to revisit the other amendments proposed by the Government; So I don't care about it. Of course – your debates in committee have echoed this – this text is not intended to lay down in detail the rules of operation of the future CNM. In particular, I have noted your interest in governance and funding issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u9	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u10	The problem is there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u11	The governance of the CNM – a public institution of an industrial and commercial nature – must be tightened and, in accordance with the recommendations of the parliamentary mission, ensure a majority place in the state. Furthermore, the association of representatives of the sector will be guaranteed by the establishment of a professional committee, provided for in an amendment which I would like to welcome the adoption in committee. The funding of the NJC will have to be based both on the pooling of existing budgetary, fiscal and private resources, and on additional resources to enable it to fully carry out the tasks assigned to it by law. The effort will have to be shared by the State, in a form to be determined – budget appropriations or allocation of taxes – and by the professionals, through voluntary contributions from the collective management bodies, of which I have already spoken. These two topics are at the heart of the work led by the Operational Committee, led by Catherine Ruggeri. These will lead to specific recommendations for the drafting of a statutory decree and for provisions included in the draft finance law for 2020. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] These are, in my view, the broad outlines of this bill and more broadly of the draft that it proceeds from: a beautiful text, dear Pascal Bois, which you invite to adopt, with the full support of the Committee on Cultural Affairs of the National Assembly and the Government; and a beautiful project, which it must give substance to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u12	Mrs Marie-George Buffet spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u13	We usually say that music brings us together as much as it looks like us. A means of expression, professional or amateur, in the commercial sector as an associative, music accompanies us everywhere. It knows no boundaries, especially in our time, where, in a few clicks, we have access to all its wealth. UNESCO – the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – recognizes it as an intangible asset of cultural heritage. Music is a reflection of a culture but also of its time. To preserve it, in all its forms, in all its diversities, is the duty of a democratic State. The establishment of the National Music Centre must impose it as an organ guaranteeing freedom of artistic creation, cultural expression and the freedom to choose cultural practices. In particular, it must improve the recognition of amateur practice. Focusing solely on supporting an economic sector would be tantamount to ignoring the very essence of music, as you pointed out, rapporteur. Culture is a wealth that does not belong to a person; It belongs to all forms of practice. In the cultural field, music has often lacked recognition; She's sometimes been despised. The purpose of this Act is to reaffirm that it is, in its diversity, an art in its own right. The establishment of a National Music Centre, bringing together all its actors and actresses, has long been hoped for. I understand the logic and the objectives pursued. However, I have several questions about the conditions for the creation of the NJC. Firstly, I regret that the reasons for this, as set out in the explanatory memorandum, are primarily economic. While the record industry has undergone major upheavals, particularly as a result of the digital revolution and the consequent emergence of new actors and actresses destabilizing the sector, the National Music Centre cannot have as its sole objective the solution of these difficulties. It must have a clear vision and ambition for the development of music and the preservation of artistic and musical creation. It must consolidate the music industry and be put at the service of artists. The establishment of the National Music Centre must mark the strengthening of the role of the public service in the field of culture. The support that the National Music Centre will provide must be given priority to public institutions and small independent producers, who often find themselves in difficult situations while playing a major role in the independence of artists and music. Over the past two years, we have had numerous institutional groupings, with the sole objective of achieving economies of scale. It would be very damaging for the National Music Centre to proceed from such a will. As you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, it must be thought of above all to bring French music to France and internationally. I also wonder about the composition of the board of directors, whose only certainty the law promises is that it will be equal, which I welcome. Nevertheless, we do not know who will be represented and, a contrario, who will not. However, it is the composition of the board of directors of the National Music Centre that will symbolize its operation and its missions, through the actors and actresses of the sector that will sit there. The bill provides him with a professional council, where private organizations would be represented. The representation of trade union organizations in the sector cannot be avoided – you mentioned the subject, Minister. Excluding them from any representation would be tantamount to depriving themselves of the knowledge and competence of their actors and actresses, on subjects that directly concern them, who defend the values of culture and music. Admittedly, parity on the board of directors is enshrined in the law; However, the National Music Centre should have a clear mission to promote equal access for women and men to the musical professions. This is the meaning of an amendment tabled by the GDR Group and accepted in committee when it met under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. According to figures from the Observatory on Equality between Women and Men in Culture and Communication published in March 2016 by the Ministry, women run 10% of current music scenes, 18% of national choreographic centres and 20% of national and regional drama centres. Only 4% of conductors are women – in Stains, we have a famous one. They represent 27% of directors, 37% of choreographers, 21% of authors and 22% of directors. These rates must alert us to women's lack of access to the cultural professions, particularly in the music sector. I would also like to point out the issue of funding. The establishment of the National Music Centre should not be used as a pretext for a reduction or transfer of credits or missions from the Ministry of Culture, which should continue to play a central role in the development of artistic creation. All of these issues remain unresolved and can be a source of concern, particularly among actors and actors in the world of music. Maintaining the prime role of the Ministry directly depends on the future missions of the National Music Centre. I would like to stress the need to put this bill in the footsteps of section 3 of the law of 7 July 2016 on freedom of creation, architecture and heritage. The latter, which has been particularly upset in recent times, has, however, established essential principles aimed at preserving freedom of creation and respect for the heritage – we will have the opportunity to return to this point. It has also made it possible to include in the law multiple values of progress: access to culture in the world of work, equality between women and men in all fields of artistic creation and equal access for citizens as well as the widest public access to works of artistic creation, among others. It is essential that the National Music Centre assert itself of these principles and that this article be an integral part of its DNA. It is on this condition that it will benefit the entire world of music and not just some of its components. The Centre will need to fully integrate amateur and non-profit practice in order to promote the right of everyone to participate in the cultural life of their country. Moreover, France is a signatory to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions adopted by UNESCO on 20 October 2005, which clearly sets out the principle of complementarity of economic and cultural aspects of development. As culture is one of the fundamental areas of development, peoples have the fundamental right to participate in and benefit from it. Clearly inserting the National Music Centre within the framework of the UNESCO Convention guarantees its future success, by ensuring that it does not confuse the general interest with the commercial interest, even if it happens that the two intersect. The music economy must be consolidated, adapted to technological changes and new ways of consuming, but it cannot be an end in itself. It must also be put at the service of freedom of artistic creation and the development of practices. Consequently, aid cannot be conditional solely on the viability of a professional project. [[Applause on all benches]] The GDR Group welcomes the bill. We will vote in favour, hoping that the CNM will serve the general interest, in particular by giving itself the means to accompany artistic creation and artists, amateurs as well as professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u14	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u15	This afternoon, our assembly is considering our colleague Pascal Bois's bill to create the National Music Centre. We have had the opportunity, in committee, to welcome this initiative, which should come in support of a sector which occupies a very important place in the cultural world of our country. "I am the man, and you are the music, and I love you deeply, and I love you all the time," Gilbert Bécaud sang. Announced in 2018 by Françoise Nyssen, the Centre national de la musique is born at a time when the music sector is reviving with expansion, after difficult years in which it has suffered the crisis following the arrival of digital technologies. It was a whole circuit that had to be recreated, a whole economy that had to be rebuilt. For example, in 15 years, turnover in the music industry has fallen by 60%, raising concerns about the sustainability of musical creation and the promotion of musical diversity in our country. Since then, the music industry, production models and promotion chains have changed considerably, regained momentum and regained ground. That is the context in which we must approach our debate. The recovery remains fragile; We know that because all the actors tell us. We need to extend the state's support for the music sector through, among other things, the various tax credits, which remain essential. By a happy initiative, our assembly extended their application until 2022. But it is now that the players in the musical world, including the State, must begin to think and reflect on the tools that will guarantee the future of the sector. The NJC is certainly one of them. It will be a tool for convergence and collective intelligence accompanying the progress of the sector. To do this, it will rely on the existing one and on what has worked. It will bring together the foundations of the National Centre for Song, Variety and Jazz, the Music Creation Fund and the Information and Resources Centre for Current Music. This new public institution will have to defend the general interest, in complementarity with the services of the State and the initiatives already taken by it through central and decentralized services. It is on this condition that we will be able to pursue a public policy of music that is both ambitious, powerful and irrigating the whole of our territory. The main challenge will, of course, be to bring together and streamline the support mechanisms for the music industry in order to make it more efficient. It will also be necessary to put in place and develop a genuine comprehensive strategy. As such, many of us, in committee, stressed the importance of integrating the Bureau Export de la musique française into the CNM in order to achieve this objective. Indeed, it is in the global market that the game is played. France has every chance to succeed – we already see it with the tremendous dynamism of our artists abroad. We are pleased with the Government's initiative in this regard and will naturally support the amendment. Similarly, we are satisfied with the possibility of integrating the Club action of French independent labels and stores into the CNM, whose work and investment are equally important. However, this success is still too much that of a few star artists. The other issue in the music industry is therefore to continue the policy of supporting the creation and emergence of new artists, as we know how difficult it is to make a name in this milieu. Many initiatives have emerged – online music platforms, collective management societies – but they need to be extended and expanded. Finally, in committee, we expressed our concern about the drafting of Article 5, on the modalities of merging the three bodies that will be grouped within the NJC – two of which, it should be recalled, are private law associations. The rapporteur gave a clear answer on this point by proposing a new wording of this article; It seems to us relevant and, we believe, will be in a position to reassure the actors directly involved in the merger. Care will have to be taken to leave the future NJC open to conduct the discussions, without too many recommendations and missions for which it may not have the necessary resources. It seems to us that the tasks listed in Article 1, as amended in committee, cover a broad field and offer good prospects for development. We particularly stressed the fourth mission: the creation of an observatory for the sector. It is essential: such an observatory is indispensable, and it is absolutely necessary to take over this project, despite past failures. We join you, Mr rapporteur, on the method, which leaves it to the professionals to organize themselves within the framework of the CNM, without repeating the mistakes which led to the fact that the previous observatory never saw the light of day. Governance, if important, should not be the key. The aim is to build a useful tool for the industry. This one has to be better known. It also deserves to attract young people back to its professions, which carry human and artistic values. Also, complementing the NJC's missions with participation in the development of artistic and cultural education seems to us to be a step in the right direction. The National Music Centre was long overdue. Several times repulsed, he is now about to be born. But its creation will not mean its success; This will depend on the ambition that we all will carry for him. The NJC must increase the strength of the sector. This will require the involvement of all: the professionals, first, who will have to invest in it in order to take advantage of it; the public authorities, then, in particular the Government, whose next PLF – the finance bill – will be very much expected; the national representation, which will have to follow the installation of the NJC and provide it with all the necessary support. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement therefore welcomes this initiative, which carries with it a great ambition for art and culture. We must support the National Music Centre and give it the means to develop it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] Music, sometimes, has major agreements: we will vote, you understand, in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u16	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u17	Who of us never listened to music? Who of us never tried music? Who of us can consider his life without music? This afternoon, music comes to the hemicycle of our respectable assembly, thanks to a bill that offers us the opportunity to give life to a common house of all music. For many years, work has been initiated in a process of consultation with the sector. In the continuity of these two years ago, the Ministry of Culture asked Mr. Roch-Olivier Maistre to give him a report with a view to "bringing music together" in a national centre. This work was then usefully validated and supplemented by the detailed foresight report drawn up by our colleague Émilie Cariou and our rapporteur Pascal Bois, at the request of the Prime Minister. All of us, industry actors and politicians, are unanimous on the need to create a National Music Centre, in order to give real leverage to our country's second-largest cultural industry. This bill aims to provide better support to all players in the music industry, by bringing together the National Centre for Song, Variety and Jazz – CNV –, the Fonds pour la création musicale – FCM – and the Centre d'information et de ressources des musiques actuelles – IRMA – in the same institution. Federation of all stakeholders must make it possible to better respond to the challenges of cultural diversity, economic support and development, innovation and dissemination in the territories, and finally export; This new body will be at the service of a chain united and conquering, solidarity like the five lines of the reach. The richness of the score draws its strength from the talent of our artists, but it would be nothing without the producers, publishers, agents, managers, collective management organizations and professional associations, who take risks, invest, and accompany the creation. Needless to say, without their support, the world of music would not have survived in France the dizzying fall of its revenues in the 2000s. We can welcome this commitment, which has enabled the sector to recover for the third year in a row. However, we need to be careful because this growth is largely based on the growth of legal streaming, which is known to be not optimal in sharing value. The recovery is fragile, but the music industry has a great ability to adapt to usages and is constantly innovative. As a reminder, the French musical creation can be welcomed by a beautiful list in 2018, with nineteen of the top twenty places in the rankings of albums occupied by artists produced in France. At the same time, the live entertainment and variety sector is dynamic, with an annual growth rate of 8%. This reflects the cultural appetite of the French for live and variety shows, to which the diversity of concerts and festivals offered across the territories responds. At the heart of this dynamic, the National Music Centre's project aims to increase momentum and support the recovery of growth. On the basis of these findings, we agreed, during the consideration of the bill in committee last week, that the National Music Centre should be established without further delay. Its various missions reflect the ambition of our cultural policy. The group La République en marche has contributed to this text through several amendments, which aim to make support for the creation one of the CNM's missions, to enhance musical heritage in cooperation with structures such as the BNF or the Cité de la musique, or to promote the dissemination of works abroad. We will supplement these amendments in session with another, which explicitly incorporates recorded music, varieties and live entertainment into the text. While Article 40 of the Constitution did not allow us to propose an amendment to include cultural and artistic education within the scope of the NJC, our group is particularly committed to the need to give everyone the opportunity to access musical practice and creation beyond social determinisms. We therefore welcome the fact that the Government has seized the matter. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, whatever the tone of our vote, let us proceed without further delay to the tune of this bill, which we have adopted in committee. The Centre national de la musique will bring together citizens, creators and entrepreneurs around a common work to foster the spread of French's preferred cultural practice, in our country and around the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u18	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u19	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] The creation of the Centre national de la musique is an already ancient idea, considering the first works carried out under the quinquennium of Nicolas Sarkozy. You did not mention that name earlier, minister – it was certainly an omission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u20	It's just a mischievous thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u21	[[Smile]] Here it is fixed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u22	When Nicolas Sarkozy was President of the Republic, he understood that, like cinema, the music sector needed a pilot structure, and even more so in a context marked by the collapse of the record industry. But it was without counting on the politics of the raise table led by his successor – I don't come back to it, but it was five years of lost. Two reports and several months of consultation later, this is the NJC project back on track. I welcome this and welcome the work of our colleague Pascal Bois here. Music and varieties deserve, we all agree, a public tool for help, foresight and consultation, even more, of course, in a world where the reality of the day is not that of the next day. But this satisfaction does not prohibit reservations, for some important ones. The first, no one will be surprised, concerns funding. It is easy for everyone to agree: to create a National Music Centre without means would be of no use. All agree on an overall budget of EUR 20 million, starting with you, Mr rapporteur, who wrote it in a quality report that you submitted to the Prime Minister only a few months ago, I was just talking about it. This EUR 20 million is the assurance of a CNM engine for the economy of the sector. But for the time being, the account is not there: no one knows exactly what means the NJC will have. A main source of revenue is identified: the performance tax. The professionals who acquit him also wonder whether it will continue to finance exclusively the support for the production and distribution of performances. For the rest, appointment is made in the fall, when we will review the PLF for 2020. In other words, the greatest uncertainty dominates, especially in the current context. The 2019 Finance Act has left a bitter taste for many live entertainment entrepreneurs, including those in the humor and musical sectors, who have been excluded from the tax credit. What will happen, Minister, in 2020? At a time when the Government is seeking to erode some direct business support, many have real concerns about the fate of the NJC, and more broadly about the various cultural support schemes. How can we not understand them? It would not be reasonable, minister, for us to come out of the discussion in public as we have come out of the commission, without knowing exactly how the future establishment will be funded. Without solid guarantees, everything else seems derisory. With regard to recorded music, I would like to point out that, if growth is there – around 1.8% – it is in particular thanks to the good results of streaming, and that it remains extremely precarious. The CNM's support and support capacity is a decisive factor in an economy where everything changes so quickly and where not all players, especially the most powerful, are subject to the same rules, far from it. With regard to financing, the Republican Group endorses a proposal put forward in the above-mentioned report: to transfer to the CNM a fraction of the so-called "Cope" tax, whose revenues abound the general budget of the State, instead of compensating, in accordance with its original purpose, for the loss of advertising revenue caused by the abolition of evening advertising on France Télévisions. In view of the importance of music in Internet consumption, the CNM would be fully entitled to collect part of the tax. Minister, it will be very useful to hear from you on this crucial point. Second pitfall in my eyes: the perimeter of the skills. If support for creation has been voted in committee – and this is a very good thing – we must go further if the NJC is to become the real economic lever that all players in the sector expect. Indeed, it is a sector whose so-called "prototype" economy is marked by unpredictability, therefore by the need to take risks. Without risk, no chance to see new talents emerge, and no more cultural diversity! But who says risk-taking, says the need to invest. As such, one of the priority missions, or even the NJC's priority mission, must be to support the investment capacity of companies. However, this specific dimension is missing from the text, which accentuates the uncertainty associated with the lack of commitment on NJC funding. It is absolutely necessary, Mr.Minister, that we succeed in the sitting in correcting this deficiency. Similarly, the management of the two tax credits – phonographic and live entertainment – must be expressly entrusted to the CNM, not only to simplify access to them, but also to document more precisely the use made of them and to secure them once and for all. Professionals can no longer do so: they are suspended every year from Bercy's arbitrations to see if these job-creating schemes, I remind them, but also profitable for the state will be sustainable in the long term. With regard to simplification, it is also essential to entrust the CNM with the management of measure 9 and possibly that of measure 8 of the FONPEPS, the National Fund for Sustainable Employment in the Performing Arts. As it stands, the proposed law seems to allow for this transfer, which would greatly relieve the companies in the sector, faced with serious difficulties with the responsible operator, particularly with regard to the delays in the processing of cases. Again, like tax credits, the aim is to strengthen a virtuous aid measure, which meets the needs of the sectors concerned, and to further improve the positive impact of the CNM on the sector. Another challenge is the composition of the board of directors, i.e. governance. In a traditional way, the bill refers appointments to decrees. This formula is necessarily discretionary, a qualifier that does not really fit the role of the NJC: to promote dialogue between actors with often conflicting interests. The Republican Group advocates for a small board of directors, comprising fifteen members, including a majority of representatives of the state and the communities, while leaving a great deal of room for the representatives of authors, artists, live entertainment, phonographic production, publishing and employees. As called for in the foresight report, this board of directors could be assisted by a professional council with a higher number of players in the sector. The challenge, once again, is to ensure more dialogue and transparency. The NJC must also be in the image of its members and the objectives it pursues. It is up to us to invent a governance that is fully in line with the ambition of cultural actors for the NJC. Another difficulty, discussed at length in the committee, is the merger of associations within the NJC. The rewriting of article 5 has removed some concerns about respect for freedom of association, but has not ruled out doubts about respect for property rights. As such, the transfer of the property, rights and obligations of associations to the NJC will be free of charge and without compensation. This too rigid provision may prevent the members of these associations from consenting to their dissolution before the financial issues, many and sometimes thorny, are finally settled, given the example of the six-year lease signed by the Music Creation Fund. I have also tabled an amendment calling for these transfers to take place through the agreement between the associations and the CNM. The stake is twofold: to allow each party to organize the merger in the best of its interests, during a transitional period, and to legally secure a provision which, as it stands, has every chance of being declared unconstitutional. In conclusion, the Republican Group welcomes the progress of this bill. However, as you have understood, we still find it possible to change the text in an even more favourable way for the music sector, particularly on the question of the competences of the CNM and the merger of associations within the institution. Other questions that still arise will probably not find definitive answers at the end of our discussions. I am thinking in particular of the essential issue of funding, which the minister has just postponed to an organizing committee. However, the debate which is beginning this afternoon is an opportunity to date and affirm certain commitments. As such, Minister, I have no doubt that you will be able to provide the necessary guarantees to the actors in the sectors concerned that they are entitled to expect from the State. Because you're a great connoisseur of the case, we're counting on you. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups as well as on the benches of the commissions]] We will therefore vote in favour of this bill, hoping to help enrich it during the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u23	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u24	This afternoon we are discussing the proposed law on the establishment of the National Music Centre. Music is the first cultural practice of the French. It is a vector of powerful pleasure and emotion, both collective and individual. Each of us has a favorite song, an air that brings it back to memories or transports it to a new imaginary. Music is also a dynamic economic sector, part of our cultural model. In France, it generates 240,000 jobs and some 9 billion euros. It is known, however, that this sector has undergone a profound upheaval. The digital revolution has profoundly disrupted the value chain. Between 1999 and 2014, the world's sales of recorded music fell from around EUR 24 billion to just over EUR 14 billion, due to the explosion of piracy. Now it represents a form of model and hope for other sectors, in the way of effective regulation. The growth of streaming thus constitutes a potential for development. According to several forecasts, worldwide sales of recorded music are expected to more than double in the coming years. In addition to fostering the conditions for the economic dynamism of the music industry, our role is first and foremost to ensure the quality and diversity of creation, as well as to promote French-language song and its influence in the world. The 300 million Francophones represent a major challenge and asset. The development of the French music sector contributes to the richness of our language and culture. Beyond the brilliance of our culture, la francophonie diffuses universal and fundamental values, in particular those of our republican motto. The creation of the National Music Centre was very much expected. We therefore welcome the provisions of this bill, all the more so, Minister, that this is an area that you are well aware of – even perfectly – since you co-edited a report on this subject in 2011. By bringing together three existing structures – the National Centre for Song, Varieties and Jazz, the Information and Resources Centre for Current Music and the Fund for Music Creation – the State will be able to carry out a strategic vision and bring together all the actors involved in the implementation of the Fund. The adoption of the amendments I tabled during the debates in committee made it possible to incorporate not only the variety but also the support for musical creation in the missions of the National Music Centre. We look forward to it. Many of us have expressed the need to welcome the Bureau export de la musique française to the Centre national de la musique, and many have tabled amendments to this effect, which have unfortunately been declared inadmissible in committee. That is why we urge you, Minister, to meet this request now in order to ensure that the NJC's missions are complete. The review of the text in committee was an opportunity to add a professional board to the board of directors. If we are not opposed to the creation of this additional board, we wonder if it would not have been easier to properly represent professionals on the board of directors. This board of professionals brings further questions: what will be its articulation with the board of directors? What are his prerogatives? We support all initiatives involved in integrating territories into the definition of public policies. As a result of the work in committee, local authorities were involved in carrying out the tasks of the National Music Centre. The IUD, Action and Independent Group considers that any public policy which does not involve the territories is doomed to failure. The latter are rich in unwavering will and dynamism. They are essential for the convergence of intelligence and the establishment of public policies as close as possible to the citizens. We call for a broad reflection on the various tax credits relating to culture. Culture is not an economic sector like any other; It is a risk activity with a fragile and very precarious balance. In order to preserve the quality and vitality of our model, it is essential to encourage creative risk-taking. Cultural tax credits should not be viewed as mere tax niches, but as effective instruments to promote cultural investment and job creation in our country. We would like to know the Ministry of Culture's reflection on the tax credits for the production of phonographic works and on the tax credits for live musical performances, so that the State's effort can really be translated into a gain for all the actors in culture. If we share the initiative to establish a National Music Centre, it seems to us essential to provide for an objective assessment of the Centre in the performance of its missions. Thus, how will the objective evaluation of NJC missions be carried out in practice? In connection with industry professionals, our group wanted to table certain amendments in order to enrich the text, so that the future National Music Centre would be as operational and representative as possible. To this end, we will defend an amendment to the appointment of the President of the National Music Centre by the Minister of Culture, on one or more proposals of the Board of Directors. We would like to take advantage of this discussion so that you can clarify the governance and funding of the Centre. The players in the industry and we ourselves need more visibility and readability on this point. This is particularly the case with regard to the composition of the Board of Directors. How will the actors of music be represented there? Will any representatives of the State sit there? Again, would it not be easier to represent professionals in a satisfactory manner rather than to provide additional advice? Then, what will be the modalities for merging the agencies that created the National Music Centre? How will the NJC interact with the Regional Directorates of Cultural Affairs? Finally, can you give us some details on the funding of the missions of the National Music Centre? In committee, the rapporteur stressed that a second part would be opened on the funding of the National Music Centre during the consideration of the next finance bill. On this point, what commitments can the Government make? We also welcome the creation of an organization that is able to respond to contemporary challenges in the music sector. I would remind you that preserving the diversity of creation is a priority for us, as a movement of globalisation and concentration of actors is developing and competition is increasing. We believe in the music industry, we believe in our ability to export our works and artists internationally. For us, it is also a priority. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LR and MODEM groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Our group is therefore looking favourably at the bill, which could give new impetus to the music industry. Mr President of the committee, Mr rapporteur, and, of course, Mr Minister, we thank you above all for your commitment. We will be at your side to move forward, in the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u25	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u26	[[Smile. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As has just been said, this afternoon we are considering your proposal for a law on the establishment of the National Music Centre. We are very many on these benches to wish this creation, as the stakes for music are important. However, Minister, if we welcome this creation, we can only regret that it falls short of the ambitions expressed both in an excellent report entitled "Creation of music and diversity in the digital age", which you submitted in September 2011 to the then Minister of Culture, Frédéric Mitterrand, and in the report on the prefiguration of MPs Émilie Cariou and Pascal Bois. The MP you were seemed to me to have more ambition for music than the minister is posting today... In order to support this statement, let me go back to a few points. Should there be a National Music Centre? The answer is yes. Since the early 2000s, we have lived on our achievements. We still live with the myth of a state that would support cultural creation. Unfortunately, this myth has lived and, since François Mitterrand and Jack Lang, who had really managed to move the lines, culture is no longer a lever enough to support the cohesion of our society and, within it, music. We still live with the idea that France would be the benevolent mother of the cultural exception. This is still true in some sectors, but unfortunately it is in decline in others. To illustrate this, just look at some of the publications of the Statistical Office of the European Union, EUROSTAT. The latter, for example, published a study last February on the share of people working close or far in the so-called cultural milieu, ranging from libraries to music, museums and television programmes. Intuitively, one could imagine that France would be at the top of the pack. This is not the case at all: it is below the European average, behind Germany or Italy; it only does better than Romania, Greece, Portugal or Bulgaria. This is, in my view, very alarming. In this context, the situation of music seems to me even less favourable, both in an absolute way – in your report, Mr.Minister, you described perfectly the decline in sales of recorded music, the decline in the exhibition of music in the media or the fact that the value of music moves outside the industry – and in the light of what other countries are doing. I am thinking in particular of Russia's policies for classical music. If we agree on the objective of creating the National Music Centre and on your approach, what are the points in your bill that do not fully satisfy us? First, as has been said: the means. In your 2011 report, Minister, you estimated the necessary budget at EUR 145 million. That has been said on all benches, we are far from it. Then, with regard to value-added sharing, in your 2011 report, you pointed to the unfavourable trend that sees the container take precedence over content; In other words, it is the platforms that capture most of the added value. Even if they are listened to tens of thousands of times, music performers perceive almost nothing. A very well-documented article published on France Musique's website in November 2015 showed that, on a €9.99 subscription to a platform that we know well and we probably use, only €0.46 went to artists, let alone classical music artists, because of the latter's listening mode – you don't usually listen to the Gold of the Rhine in loop as you can do for Bigflo &am p; Oli. On this issue of value-added sharing, you rely a little too much on the NJC's role as an observatory. Whatever our political orientations, I believe that every legislature can be an opportunity to take a step forward. Under the previous one, we created the platform's advertising revenue tax, known as the YouTube tax. However, I would remind you that this tax was voted by 12 votes to 11 – it was a Friday morning, there were no big people on the benches. This result illustrates the resistances that may exist. I take this rostrum to thank Bruno Le Maire, who, although he did not then vote the tax, made the decree for it to be applied. Under the previous legislature, we had tried to distribute the proceeds of the YouTube tax between the CNC and what is still the CNV. It was a failure; There too there were resistances. We now propose an amendment to ensure that the YouTube tax benefits both the CNC and the National Music Centre, simply because the platforms offer both cinema and music. As things stand, I do not claim that this would bring a fortune to the National Music Centre – probably between €3 million and €5 million – but that would still be a recognition for the music sector. It would be logical not to reserve this tax on the CNC alone – which obviously has many supporters, of which I am a member. Third disagreement with you, which we have already discussed: the place of so-called "classic" music. I don't like the adjective very much because it has a retro connotation that doesn't seem right to me. In any event, while classical music has always been a part of our history, its image seems to me to be abhorrent to some who would like to make it elitist. Of course the audience of the concerts ages over the years, especially for about thirty years, but I think this evolution can be reversed. It is seen in other countries: in China, the audience of so-called "classic" music concerts is very young and much more important than in France. It is regrettable that your bill is silent on this worrying trend, even though our country has many international performers and composers, while French scenes and television show great enthusiasm to value. My comment goes beyond the strict scope of the bill, but, as I have already told you, Minister, I am abhorred by the fact that some classical music festivals, including the oldest ones, which offer creations, do not receive the slightest euro of state subsidy, while the latter pays tens of millions of euros of tax credits to foreign productions whose box office entries do not always reflect a large success. This disproportion is extremely shocking, and I can only invite you to seriously consider it. If I plead for classical music – some will say for personal taste, and that's true – it is especially in view of what is happening in the rest of the world: we are losing ground – I am thinking of China, Germany or Russia, which have adopted very interesting programmes in favour of classical music, it must be recognized. Finally, all our colleagues, I believe, have referred to the governance of the National Music Centre. Minister, in your 2011 report, you proposed that parliamentarians sit on the NJC's board of directors, as is the case at the NJC. You wrote: "The composition of the board of directors (CA) should include a majority of government representatives, the principal financier, qualified officials, parliamentarians and staff representatives of the institution. In the bill, however, this suggestion has disappeared. We still have the debates in session to convince you to go back to your 2011 writings and allow parliamentarians – I speak for them, but this may be true for other categories – to participate in the board of directors. You cannot, throughout the great debate, display your will to listen to the French and, at the same time, tighten all decision-making bodies around the state. [[Applause on the SOC and LR panels]] In conclusion, I confirm that the Socialist and Related Group will vote for the bill to create the National Music Centre, which we are waiting for, but we very much hope that the debates in session will be an opportunity for some progress – about the YouTube tax, the composition of the board of directors and perhaps the attention paid to classical music – confirming that music, its composers, creators and performers will again be able to benefit from real support, especially in the face of platforms that increasingly capture added value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u27	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u28	The digital revolution is undoubtedly a major challenge at the beginning of our century. It affects most areas of our society, our way of life, working, informing us, but also our cultural practices. The music and variety sector has not been left behind and our music consumption has been upset. In the first instance, this development was mainly at the expense of artists and actors in the sector. I am thinking, among other things, of piracy, which is still a recent phenomenon in view of the great history of music, which has played a major role in weakening the record industry, whose worldwide turnover has fallen by half in 15 years. Even today, one of our challenges lies in our ability to combat these illegal practices. More recently, it is the growth of streaming that is at the origin of the evolution of our relationship to music. Production companies have been supplanted by digital platforms – Spotify, Apple or Deezer, for example. With a growth of almost 20% per year in France, subscriptions to the platforms exceeded CD sales in terms of revenue generated. These giants, for some listings, benefit from the lack of regulation but also from their ability to offer increasingly supplied music catalogues. Let us recognize this, the development of streaming has enabled the music industry to find a second breath and to return to a growth that remains fragile. However, while this change has benefited some, particularly artists or the most popular genres, the absence of international barriers, the heightened competition and the hegemony of platforms have been obstacles to many other artists and pose a growing danger to musical diversity. We are all aware of this, the stakes of music are multiple for our country: artistic and cultural, of course, since music promotes individual and collective expression and emancipation; economic, since it generates important income and creates jobs. Finally, and our group is particularly sensitive, it participates in the international influence of France and the Francophonie. It therefore seems essential that France take up the challenge and fully support its music industry, so that it does not undergo the digital transition but, on the contrary, benefits from it. The Libertés et territoires Group shares the findings of the various reports on the subject, in particular that of Mr Roch-Olivier Maistre on the project of a "common house of music", or that of the rapporteur Pascal Bois and our colleague Émilie Cariou. That is why we support the establishment of the National Music Centre under the proposed legislation. We believe that it can lead to progress in simplification and efficiency. However, if we welcome the sharing of actions, we stress the need to support cultural diversity. Indeed, promoting French or Francophone musical creation in the domestic and international markets means promoting it in its diversity and supporting each of its components. In our view, achieving this goal depends on the ability of the National Music Centre to address three key aspects. The first aspect concerns the recognition of the intrinsic diversity of the musical ecosystem. In this regard, we welcome the amendments adopted in committee to reaffirm support for artistic creation and the promotion of varieties, including cabarets, musicals and humour. Perhaps we could go even further by considering the music practice as an amateur. Indeed, amateur musicians, numbering 12 million in France, contribute to the development of French musical art as well as to the musical economy and sometimes even to the dynamism of the territories. I am thinking of choirs, bandes and other bandes, very present in Brittany at my colleague Paul Molac. Our group will defend several amendments to this effect. The second aspect relates to the NJC's international ambition. Indeed, it is important to encourage the development of eclectic French and French works, which contribute to the cultural influence of France and our language throughout the world. Exacerbated international competition, which erases borders, forces us to defend our artists abroad. Therefore, it seems wise to entrust the future Centre with a mission to support the export of musical productions, the dissemination of works and the presence of French artists abroad. In this connection, our group has proposed an amendment aimed at promoting music education throughout the country, particularly through the network of the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger. While the Ministry of National Education is already working on the musical awakening of students, complementary actions of the future CNM would enable students enrolled in French schools abroad to be more aware of music, thus promoting French and French music. However, only a few hours before the discussion of the text, we have just learned that this amendment was declared inadmissible by the National Assembly, on the basis of article 40 of our Constitution. It is always surprising that we are quick to interpret extensively the texts which might prevent our amendments from being examined. Finally, the third subject, which is particularly dear to our group but on which one of its amendments has also been rejected under Article 40, is of course the need for an ambitious cultural territorial policy, in particular through partnerships with local authorities and actors. Fusion into a single centre must not be synonymous with concentration. The President of the Republic recalled this during the announcements that followed the great national debate, one of the main challenges for our country is the ability to meet the needs of proximity and the diversity of our territories. Unfortunately, however, there are too many cultural deserts in France. Whether they live in rural, island, mountain, ultramarine or suburban areas, our fellow citizens must have access to culture, not only by digital means, but also in a physical way, thanks to the links between the deconcentrated services of the State, local and regional authorities, associations and all the actors in the sector. We welcome the amendments adopted in committee in this direction. However, we regret that the rapporteur, on the pretext of redundancy, has tabled an amendment to delete an addition from the committee concerning the territorial development of the musical ecosystem. In addition, despite the progress made in the commission, our group would have liked to see communities become even more involved with the National Music Centre, particularly on its board of directors. Governance is indeed one of the key issues for the effectiveness of the actions of the future Centre. However, the composition of its board of directors is still unknown for the time being, since it is referred to a decree. We believe that the territorial elected representatives have their full place in the decision-making body. In 2014, I would like to point out that the State's contribution to cultural expenditure amounted to €9.2 billion, while local and regional authorities contributed €9.3 billion at the same time. At the same level of participation, there should be equivalent representation. The presence of parliamentarians would also seem to us to be relevant, as they know the territories, their needs and the actors essential for cultural development. They are represented in other national cultural centres, such as the CNC. Our group will therefore defend an amendment to that effect. We welcome the establishment of a professional council, which will represent private organisations on the board of directors. This addition was essential in order to fully integrate the actors in the sector into the steps to be taken by the NJC. In the end, most of the reservations we had about this text were lifted during its examination in committee. Those which persist concern financing, referred to the next finance bill, in particular the question of the administration of tax credits for phonographic production and live entertainment. It would seem to us much better to allow local authorities to participate in the adjustment of these tax credits, because they are much more aware of the realities and needs of the territories. Nevertheless, the Libertés et territoires Group will support this text, because the CNM seems to us to be an effective tool for the music and variety sector, throughout the country and internationally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u29	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u30	After having been a rivet, a project whose realization was constantly delayed by previous governments, we finally found ourselves studying the creation of a National Music Centre. We will, no doubt, agree on the principle of this creation, in particular because music is the first cultural practice of the French and that this sector, hard attacked, must be protected, like other artistic forms, especially cinema. I would like to recall from the outset that the creation of this National Music Centre was part of our program in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u31	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u32	If we find ourselves therefore on the creation of the Centre, our partitions will probably differ as to how it exists and how it is financed. The too low pledges given so far by the majority in the cultural sector justify our caution with respect to this bill, and the years of waiting of professionals prompt us to show a particular requirement. First of all, I would like to express a fear that this mechanism will bring us back to the eternal tempo of the Government, namely, the obsession of the golden rule, that is, austerity. The air is unfortunately well known in our country: sharp decline in the number of assisted contracts, blockage in the allocation of certain financings, consumerist approach by the pass culture, reduction of certain tax credits in favour of the spectacle living in the last finance law, and I pass it. The cultural policy pursued by the Government so far is, therefore, a hindrance to the needs and objectives of a long-standing professional environment, since unfortunately the sector is not at the heart of political concerns. The creation of a National Music Centre must break with this chorus, which threatens to asphyxiate and silence those who bring creation to life. We would not like to see the Government further weaken a ministry whose responsibilities are based on the pretext of bringing them together within a self-governing structure. I would therefore like to point out that the State cannot escape its essential task of accompaniment to the players in music and that the National Music Centre must under no circumstances contribute to the outsourcing of the latter. And I would also not like to see the end of the day, when we dress up the CNM, we undress the other budgets allocated to music. In order to protect ourselves from this temptation, I wish to reiterate our commitment to ensuring that the Centre has a budget worthy of that name. Budgetary autonomy and the administration by the centre of certain tax credits cannot serve as a partition of a Government that pays tribute to the disengagement of the State and the delegation of its missions to private actors. We will therefore be careful to ensure that the funding and resources allocated to the music sector are relevant to the issues, as is the case for the National Film Centre. It is also well known that the impetus of the public authorities has been decisive for French cinema, which is relatively better than other sectors, despite all the difficulties of the moment. The pooling of all services, which we believe is relevant, must go hand in hand with a sacralized budget, preferably rising or at a constant minimum. On the other hand, another point calls for our vigilance: the structuring of the National Music Centre. We are told that he will be "the common home of all music." We will have to ensure that it does not become a kind of Spanish inn because many actors, with sometimes divergent interests, will be represented – trade unions, publishing, concert organizers, a research and statistical centre. If the NJC wants to be a breeding ground for our country's musical policy, it must be able to bring all these people together. Therefore, how can we not be cautious when reading the Profedim communiqué, the trade union in the sector, which is surprised at the lack of consultation during the work of the pre-figuration mission entrusted to two parliamentarians? How can we not be suspicious when we are told about appointments by decree? In view of the Centre's tasks, there is a need for discussions on the composition of its Board of Directors, although several provisions will fall within the regulatory area. As you will see when we defend our amendments, we demand collegiality in administrative decisions. In addition, it is essential that the NJC is not infused with a government that can cut public funding or use appointments for political and partisan purposes. In a context of reform of public action, the horizon being the Public Action Programme 2022, cultural diversity and vitality must be defended; In our view, this is a very important issue. In addition, we question the desirability of setting up a public industrial and commercial establishment, whereas the Directorate-General for Artistic Creation had suggested making the Centre a public administrative establishment, which would have strengthened its public service dimension. It is not possible to turn this argument aside by relying on the purely practical argument of job transfer, as was done in committee. The staff of the current National Centre for Song, Varieties and Jazz could be taken over on public law contracts. The National Film Centre is, I would remind you, an administrative public institution under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture. It is important that the Ministry of Culture does not fully defeat the National Music Centre. At a time when the cultural sector is weakened by budget cuts, we must ensure the conditions for the Centre's independence from private interests, its financial sustainability and its institutional basis. Let us now go beyond the only legislative dimension of the text to interest ourselves for a time in the state of the music sector. During the study of this project, be it under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u33	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u34	...that of François Hollande...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u35	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u36	...or that of Emmanuel Macron,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u37	Fi!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u38	...we have often been presented with piracy as a major threat to this sector. It would now be saved by the growth of streaming, which, we are told, gives rise to real hope and opens up new perspectives. However, I recall that streaming, as it develops, is also the vector of an increasingly polarized market between the big and the small, endorsing the power of the producers. In fact, the model defended by Deezer, Apple Music or Spotify is only viable for the most publicized artists, relayed by algorithms, who collect millions of listeners. For others, the situation is much less comfortable; It even deteriorates at high speed V. Be aware: at Spotify, the pay per listener fell, in 2016, to less than €0.004 for artists. On a monthly subscription of 10 euros paid by the user, for example, intermediaries receive 6.50 euros, while artists share only 46 cents. This is the economic model that is currently developing in the cultural sector of music. Public authorities can't let that happen. In reality, the market for streaming continues to grow at the expense of the remuneration of artists and, ultimately, it is the whole creation that is getting poorer. In this context, the NJC must protect artists and be the guarantor of a certain pluralism, which seemed to be better ensured so far by the existence of different complementary structures. We must not lose pluralism because of mutualisation. The mission of accompanying small project promoters, companies and independent labels must be at the heart of the Centre's project, I believe. While Spotify, for example, assumes "to pay the minimum possible by agreement" with the producers, it is essential that the National Music Centre exert pressure to impose viable conditions for the different actors, starting with those who make the creation live. Music policy cannot save a form of arm of arms with the majors, companies and intermediaries who now make the law, knowing that this is the law of the jungle. The NJC therefore needs substantial, long-term resources that are directed at creators as well as amateurs – we will come back to this when we defend our amendments. I would like to remind you that the music industry is only the scope of symphony; Therefore, missing the check mark of other forms of practice would lead to the multiplication of false notes. We are confident that the National Music Centre has tremendous potential. In the face of the increasing impoverishment of musicians and the increasing constraints on conservatories, music schools and communities, it can be the cause of a burst of vitality. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us be vigilant: we would not like to paraphrase Debussy – which will please Valérie Rabault...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u39	[[Smile]] And the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u40	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and LT]] Yes, of course, to all lovers of classical music! We would not like to take the CNM as "an aurora" even though it would only be a "beautiful sunset".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u41	[[Smile]] Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u42	Well done, Mr. President! What a transition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u43	Music reconciles us all! Music plays a unique role in our lives – we have just witnessed it. It is embedded in our collective history and refers us to intimate memories. "You can only reap the feelings you sow," Aznavour sang. But music sows feelings and allows us to reap a palette of emotions that we can share in a universal way. The creation of a common house of music will provide the French music industry with a gathering place for the myriad of actors who make up it. It will give a unique and harmonious face to our music policy. She will be able to match the various entities that make the sound arts such an exciting field of our heritage. Seven years after the first attempt to create a National Music Centre, we will succeed in giving the only cultural sector that does not have a single reference entity, a structure that meets its challenges and ambitions. From the education of the youngest to the influence of France abroad, the promotion of music is one of the most entrenched public policies of the Ministry of Culture. It's also a success. Since the beginning of the decade, the French sector has enjoyed a tremendous dynamism on the international scene: French music exports better than ever, thanks in particular to its French touch. The aborted attempt of 2012 is probably the result of the history of an atomized sector. This repetition may have been a necessary evil, leading to a project that now follows a more widely shared partition. The music industry is historically diverse. Scholarly music is a written tradition and is largely funded by public funds, while current music is of a more oral and popular tradition, and is based on an economy built on a private model, with audience funding. This cleavage, the result of two distinct phases of public policies in cultural matters conducted in the 1960s and then in the 1980s, was profound and structuring. We are now maturing. In the phase of cacophony, succeeds a harmony encouraged by the revolution introduced by digital. This convergence is evident in several respects. The first concerns the culture of artists: far from remaining in a compartmentalization, they increasingly have a dual culture, scholarly and popular, undeniably promoting the rapprochement of expectations. The rooms also contributed to this rapprochement by promoting the diversity of programming and allowing the discovery of all forms of aesthetics. Finally, the internationalization of the music market has definitely brought the needs closer; The Music Export Office is the best illustration of these common needs, I will come back to that. To say that the digital revolution has transformed the music industry is an understatement. This sector has undergone an unprecedented change which, after the major reorganization which it has been able to carry out, has enabled it to find new growth relays. Streaming is an illustration of this, but the world of living entertainment is also very dynamic. In 2018, the state spent €15 million on music creation, 4 million more than in 2017. These figures reflect the importance that our majority and the department place on this sector. The State must now develop an effective tool to accompany and structure the sector, unanimous on the importance of the creation of the NJC. It must above all be the guarantor of musical education, the protection of copyright – as France has been able to recall and obtain at European level – the sharing of value, particularly for streaming, and the financing of our cultural structures. Its action also involves tax credits, printing the tone that we want to give to our diverse and vibrant musical culture. The creation we are wearing has been greatly accompanied by the comprehensive work carried out by Roch-Olivier Maistre in his report "Rassemble music for a national centre", whose recommendations we have largely followed and on the basis of which broad consultation has been carried out with all sectors. This work was followed by the mission of our colleagues Cariou and Bois. It is now time for the State to give coherence to this support by setting up a common house to meet the converging needs of the sector: economic observation, support for diversity and, of course, international development. On this point, the original bill did not include the Music Export Bureau. However, the integration of this model structure, which has succeeded in serving the whole industry, is a consensus. The parliamentarians wanted it, but only the Government could introduce it into the bill, taking into account the provisions of article 40 of the Constitution. The Minister announced earlier an amendment which we will support without hesitation in order to give real coherence to this building from its inception. With the means of the pre-existing structures at its creation and with a natural rationalization involved in the fusion of these structures, the future CNM will be able to carry out its tasks. As parliamentarians, we will have to ensure, when considering the next financial times, that the necessary resources are allocated to it and that the existing arrangements can be subject to regular evaluations for more agile and effective intervention. Finally, the work in committee has made it possible to devote the place of the sector to this new body, with the installation of a professional council. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is an ambitious score. It is up to us to make the polyphony of the sector as harmonious and as best as possible for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u44	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u45	A few weeks ago, we were working on a completely different text – the draft law on the organisation and transformation of the health system – of which I was the draftsman. At the head of my report, I had the honour of quoting these words: "This system makes children but it leaves them on the way and forgets that if it exists, it is to manage human beings/ We all move head down without worrying about the final plan/ The system has turned against man, lost in his ambitions,/ Equality is under construction and there is far too much deviation". I did not know that, a few weeks later, I would again have the opportunity to quote these few verses of the song Race against shame, by Grand Corps Malade and Richard Bohringer, about another text, just as important, but related to music. First of all, I would like to express a rather rare satisfaction in this House: that of discussing a text which has unanimous support. No doubt the music softens the morals... In any case, it occupies an essential place in each person's life: six in ten Frenchmen say they listen to music daily and six in ten say they can't do without it. We are therefore considering a bill that has unanimous approval on a central issue. This is the creation of the National Music Centre, which will bring together three existing structures: the National Centre for Song, Varieties and Jazz, the Information and Resources Centre for Current Music, and the Music Creation Fund. The creation of the CNM meets an objective clearly stated by Emmanuel Macron during the presidential campaign: administrative simplification, an objective regularly supported by the presidential majority. Dance, book, theatre, street arts, circus, cinema: each of these arts has a dedicated national centre. The Centre national du cinéma, which participates in the international influence of French film production, has existed since 1946; 73 years later, it was time to offer the music a new box. It is interesting to compare the film and music industries, since it is a matter of creating a National Music Centre like the CNC. Cinema and music have been deeply affected by the digital revolution. For the cinema, the video cassettes, then the DVDs and Blu-ray had to empty the theaters and break the French creation. These issues appear again with the replay, streaming and emergence of certain platforms. The music industry has gone through similar stages, but perhaps even more cruelly. Between 1999 and 2014, the world's recorded music turnover fell sharply from €23 billion to €14 billion. Today, in France, the music industry is resuming colors. While the sale of recorded music represents only 10% of its turnover, it still generates close to 9 billion euros in turnover and some 240,000 jobs. The creation of a National Music Centre thus represents an opportunity to accompany and strengthen the development of the French music industry. Indeed, our country has an extraordinary opportunity to seize. First, the Francophone space brings together some 300 million people – one in twenty-six worldwide – of whom 235 million speak our language every day. The French language therefore exports and exports well. Beyond the French song, the CNM is intended to gather all the music in one place. The aim is to offer French artists – composers, performers and producers – a real strategy for international development. The mission of the National Music Centre will be all the more complete as it derives from the missions previously assigned to the three organizations it brings together. The creation of the NJC therefore has the greatest enthusiasm, even though several issues remain outstanding. First, our Assembly will be sensitive to the appropriations that will be allocated to this body when the 2020 budget is adopted. Pascal Bois and Émilie Cariou, co-rapporteurs of the pre-figuration mission, called for funding of €20 million. Secondly, the question of the transfer of staff must meet strong social requirements. It is to be welcomed that this concern has been anticipated, with the establishment of an accompanying mission. Thirdly, the governance of the National Music Centre must respect a certain balance. It would probably be appropriate to draw inspiration here from that of the National Film Centre. Finally, based on the CNC and in view of the large number of missions to be entrusted to the NJC, I have proposed an amendment to the effect that the Board of Directors of this new body should submit an annual report to Parliament, on the one hand, on the financial management of the NJC and, on the other, on an assessment of the tasks entrusted to it. As far as public money is concerned, it seems essential to ensure greater transparency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the LR group]] I will end with a quote, since this is clearly the rule this afternoon. It comes not from a musician but from Nelson Mandela: "Politics can be strengthened by music, but music has a power that defies politics. With this text, it's about putting politics at the service of music. It's a great challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u46	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u47	I will begin by thanking all speakers for their support for the establishment of the National Music Centre. When we study the amendments, we will have the opportunity to come back to some of the points that have been raised; I will then provide you with the details that matter to you, but I can already point out some elements of the general discussion. I am particularly grateful to the Members of the Maud Petit majority, Florence Provendier, Aurore Bergé and Gaël Le Bohec, who were very much involved in the drafting of the text and who gave it their very clear support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u48	What about us?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u49	When we look at the amendments they have tabled, I will give them the answers they have asked for during their speech. In any event, I wanted to thank them for their commitment, as I thank the majority for supporting Mr. Bois's bill. Mrs Kuster, I am grateful for the support of the Republicans,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u50	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u51	...but let me give you a few clarifications. With respect to funding, I have been very clear in my initial remarks, as I was when we had the opportunity to discuss this issue together: the response will be in the context of the 2020 Finance Bill. I repeat to you very clearly what I have said at the rostrum: there will be a specific budget, in addition to the budgets already mobilized in the organizations that we will bring together within the National Music Centre. But we do not put the plough before the ox: let us first define the new needs. This is the task that Catherine Ruggeri is doing with representatives of all professional organizations. This remarkable work will make it possible to define new and possibly complementary priorities. We will then assess the funding needed to carry out these policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u52	That is one point on which we could already move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u53	Mrs. Kuster, I listened to you. You know that some of your colleagues in the Committee on Finance are quite demanding, quite rightly, on the amount of resources mobilised for a particular public policy. You said that professionals in the cultural sectors are suspended from Bercy's decisions; They are also the responsibility of the finance commissioners when they examine the state budget. I will therefore naturally count on you, when the time comes, to support, as you have always done, the ambitious cultural policies that I will present to you. As these Members of the Committee on Finance pay particular attention to the justification of new expenditure, let us give time to carry out the preparatory work. The signal that we are about to send together to the music industry, reflecting the will not only of the Government but of Parliament to set itself a new public policy ambition for the music sector, must be supported by an ambitious budget in support of new policies. I therefore stress the need to work first on the new need, before planning the corresponding means. On governance, wait for the outcome of discussions over the coming weeks and months. Again, let's not put the plow before the oxen. I really want the governance that we are going to establish to be shared by all professionals, as well as parliamentarians. I will come back to you to present the progress of the discussions with the professionals. We need to make them feel good about this new governance, which must be effective. That is why we wish – as you yourself said – a tight board of directors. It would be a bit contradictory to plead for everyone to be represented, since the music sector includes a lot of people. The board of directors must therefore be tightened. I said it very clearly: the state must have the majority and the trade union organisations will obviously be represented – Mrs Buffet, I believe, has raised this issue. We must work towards the establishment of a professional council representative of the various actors in the sector. This professional council will have a central role: it will appear, in a way, as a parliament of music. Professionals will be associated, in all their diversity. Without prejudice to the work carried out by Catherine Ruggeri, he will have to take up the budget, the allocation of public and private resources, the aid programme – conditions of eligibility, rates – and observation missions, particularly economic ones. We will thus be able to abolish the guidance board created by the law on freedom of creation, architecture and heritage – the LCAP law – which has never been created. I repeat, the professional council will play a very important role, while distinguishing itself from the board of directors, which will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the National Music Centre. As you can see, governance must be both effective and representative of all the players in the sector, which will not be figurative but will be decision-makers on a number of very important points. Mrs Autain, the status of EPIC is more appropriate than the status of EPA. Indeed, the CNV, whose CNM takes over all missions, is an EPIC. In addition, MRIA carries out commercial activities, including training engineering. I would add that this ensures the sustainability of the statutes of the staff of the merged structures. With Pascal Bois, we are very attached to this. I am very much in favour of FONPEPS's mission being entrusted to the CNM, which will be much closer to the field and to the problems faced by the actors of music and live entertainment. Mrs Rabault, thank you for your support, but you are going a little hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u54	[[Smile]] Like many times!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u55	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Who made the decision not to create the National Music Centre, except you? In 2012 and 2013, who made this decision? The majority you belonged to, the same one that supported the then President. It was she who refused – I dare not say by sectarianism, although the words burn my mouth – to endorse the creation of a National Music Centre remarkably foreshadowed by Didier Selles and Jean-Baptiste Gourdin, even though there was nothing left but to kick off! [[Protests on the SOC benches]] Thank you for quoting my report, but it is eight years old. Things have changed. Those who worked on the Centre's prefiguration, my teams and I felt it was best to support Pascal Bois's bill and to ensure that the NJC would initially bring together existing structures, before it could take power thanks to the means that would go with it. I was a little surprised that you drew from its context a sentence from the report and that you used it today to say that I do not have enough ambition for the National Music Centre, while the work done by Pascal Bois, Émilie Cariou, the majority, the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education and all the Commissioners is remarkable. I wouldn't have thought you were capable of such a political reflex on such a text, Mrs. Rabault! Having said that, I am responding to some of your remarks. I told you we'll work on the YouTube tax. I am prepared to study this specific question, even if it concerns only part of the financing of cinema and audiovisual. The same applies to the Cope tax. Will it be an affected or budgetary tax? We'll work on it. As you are familiar with financial matters, you will obviously be associated with this reflection. For my part, I consider that arrowed funding is always preferable to budgetary funding, but what matters, in the end, is that the National Music Centre has the means to meet its new missions and needs. Since you talked about the budget, Mrs. Rabault, who dropped that of culture between 2012 and 2017? The majority you belonged to! The current majority has reversed the trend, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, so that culture is at the heart of public policies. The President mobilized, with the support of all Members, in favour of a great European ambition and for the Copyright Directive to be voted on – this was indeed a great success. Our policy is also proactive in the audiovisual sector, as we will have the opportunity to see when we look at the reform that I will have the honour to present in a few months' time. I will not detail the whole of our cultural policy but, with the creation of the National Music Centre in particular, it shows ambition. It is therefore preferable, Mrs. Rabault, to begin by sweeping in front of her door. I agree with you that classical music must be included in the National Music Centre. It must be supported, like other musical genres, without the levers available to central and deconcentrated administrations being removed. I say it and I repeat it, since some of you have mentioned it: it is not a question of removing missions from the central and deconcentrated administrations of the Ministry of Culture and entrusting them to the NJC. The aim is to bring together the missions of the associations or organizations that will be merged into the latter to give it more power, ambition and resources. Again, it is not about undressing Peter to dress Paul. I therefore replied to you, Mrs Buffet, about representative organisations and funding. I also answered your questions about governance. Like Maud Petit, you were right to insist on our ambition: it is a beautiful word that sums up our common will. Mrs Autain, you cannot say that we must not undress the department and the central administration – I agree with you, as I have just said – and, at the same time, fear that the NJC will infederate the state. For you, the state is sometimes formidable, sometimes formidable. In this case, the same people will have the same responsibilities. I wanted to raise this incongruity. Where did you see budget cuts in the music sector? There aren't any. On the contrary! We play our game to accompany and support the music industry. There has been no and there will be no budget cut; However, additional resources will be made available. I also replied to you, Mrs Autain, regarding the status of EPA or EPIC. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] I think we made a first point after the general discussion. Thank you all again for your overall support for the establishment of the National Music Centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u56	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u57	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u58	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u59	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u60	The National Music Centre has important tasks, as defined in this bill. My speech will focus on one of the new missions, not the least since it is about artistic and cultural education. There was a broad consensus on the subject within the Republic on the move, which had resulted in the tabling of an amendment by the group, which had unfortunately been declared inadmissible but had been resubmitted by the Government. This amendment is in line with the Government's and the majority's efforts to promote artistic education. In September 2018, this commitment was reflected in the project "At the School of Arts and Culture", which devotes a great deal of space to music with the idea of creating a choir by college or school, and inviting an individual discovery that allows you to learn how to learn better and a collective practice to learn how to live better together. It is important to stress that this plan is accompanied by structured teacher training actions by providing them with tools and drawing on the professionals of each territory. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, the future actions of the National Music Centre in the field of artistic education are not intended to remedy a possible failure of the State, but to consolidate and multiply the actions of an ambitious and structural policy. We can only invite the National Music Centre to ensure that these artistic and musical education activities are carried out in good coordination with the project "At the School of Arts and Culture". The goal is to multiply this education in music, music and music.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u61	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u62	Despite a few cracks, particularly as regards the scope of action of the future public institution, the debates in committee on Article 1 allowed clarification on a few issues. Minister, I welcome your announcement regarding FONPEPS. I hope that this will help to smooth the management of aid, particularly in the short term. What form or impetus do you want to give to the overall support mission that will be at the heart of the NJC's action? I am thinking in particular of the aid programme. What is the balance between drawing rights and selective aid? As we know, the sector is getting better, but the growth of phonographic publishing is barely at the level of inflation and remains very fragile. The NJC's support must apply to all actors, large and small, to consolidate the economic model while guaranteeing diversity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, can you clarify these two issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u63	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u64	We are meeting today to discuss a long-awaited text. Already mentioned in the sixties, then ninety, defended by Nicolas Sarkozy under his presidency, he had unfortunately been abandoned in 2012 with the arrival in power of François Hollande. The creation of the National Music Centre is yet a structuring project for the players in the sector and the future of the sector. We can only welcome the Government's decision to bring it to life, at least on paper today. Music was one of the last public cultural policies not to have a national centre, such as the National Book Centre, the National Dance Centre or the National Film Centre. Today, this project takes on its full meaning, as the French recorded music sector returns to growth and needs support to strengthen its position in a highly competitive global market. The action of the NJC will therefore be fundamental. It will be entrusted with the task of consolidating the sector for the benefit of creation and cultural diversity. However, while this draft law provides a general framework for the establishment of the common house, it unfortunately does not allow for any clarification of its operation or its financing. My colleague Brigitte Kuster spoke of a text creating an empty shell, and I think she is right. While two excellent reports were comprehensive and dealt entirely with the subject, the proposed law was limited to five main articles and left considerable scope for the Government to use its regulatory power. As often, unfortunately, in the cultural sector, intentions are there, but the nerve of war is well forgotten or postponed. I want to talk today about the pressing issue of funding. Where are the EUR 20 million foreseen in the Roch-Olivier Maistre report and advocated by the Cariou-Bois report? We will return to this when we consider the following articles. No new resources are provided for in this bill. Yet, according to the Maistre report, "the provision of greater resources is a prerequisite for the creation of a common house of music"; "the creation of a national centre dedicated to the whole of music cannot be reduced to a simple pooling of existing credits". The additional requirement was EUR 20 million. Together with my colleagues in the group Les Républicains, we propose, among other things, to restore meaning to the Copé tax – the tax on electronic communications operators, or TOCE – by allocating it to the financing of music. I know that the Minister of Culture shares, like me, the desire to stop the diversion of TOCE to the state budget. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Another question that has been unanswered so far on funding: while organizing the transfer of all NVC resources to the NJC, the bill does not provide any clarification as to how these resources will be shifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u65	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u66	In my turn, I am delighted to see the prospect of the creation of the National Music Centre, that is, of this common house of music that has been expected for so many years by professionals as well as by many of us. Like my colleagues Brigitte Kuster and Virginie Duby-Muller, I would like to point out that it was during Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium and under his very strong impulse that extremely precise work began, of which you were involved at the time, minister. Unfortunately, this work could not be completed, as François Hollande's raise-table policy on many subjects had been the reason for this common house of music. We had Roch-Olivier Maistre's excellent report, which I wished to welcome as soon as it was published. Mrs Nyssen, who preceded you, the minister, had taken up this recommendation again, while our colleagues Pascal Bois and Émilie Cariou seized the ball at the leap. Much has already been said about the missions and perimeter of the NJC. It is a historic moment – I weigh my words – that we are living today, even though we have had the opportunity to insist, and we will do so throughout the discussion of the articles and amendments, on the many issues on which vagueness and imprecision still prevail, starting with funding. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Since we have the chance to talk about music today in this Chamber, which is not so common, at the edge of a parliamentary week that will be very marked by the seal of culture – after music, we will be examining next Friday the bill for the restoration and conservation of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and instituting a national subscription for that purpose – I would like to mention several subjects that are not directly related to the subject matter of this bill. First of all, the fight against piracy to which all creators are all too often subjected, starting with those who create music, must also be at the heart of our future concerns and work, and we must strengthen the means to be implemented. Secondly, I would like us all to work together to implement Article 17 of the European Copyright Directive as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u67	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u68	The creation of a National Music Centre to preserve the achievements and boost the musical branch's knock-on power, thanks to new alliances and cooperation, has been a strong expectation of the profession for years. You accompanied him yourself, Minister. This ambition and hope have been renewed through two reports, one commissioned by your predecessor to Roch-Olivier Maistre, the other by the Prime Minister to two members of the majority, Pascal Bois and Émilie Cariou. Never before have there been so many observations and recommendations made in the last two years. But you tell us that you still need to think, and the bill that we should finally welcome is drafted in such a way that the ambition of its terms is not enough to compensate for its anxiety. Indeed, this merger could be an opportunity to undertake a profound reform of the arrangements, but no guarantees or safeguards are foreseen. On the other hand, it is clear that the State will regain control over the governance of what is now a redistribution system through an affected tax levied on the sector's revenues. Furthermore, there is a stalemate over the necessary additional funding, while new missions are emerging and this issue is at the heart of the two reports I mentioned earlier. While the National Music Centre can finally come into being, it is sad that this bill is only a blank cheque rather than the prefiguration of a confidence pact. In a way, you take hostage the expectations and hopes of the sector while forgetting the promises of change of method made at the highest level ten days ago. At the same time, however, the Government is putting pressure on the actors in the sector to participate in the financing of a cultural pass. Over the past two years, EUR 40 million has been mobilised for this sea snake on a budget line for this purpose, if only to carry out an experiment whose conditions and results are unknown. I have not noticed that, in this case, the finance commissioners demonstrated the same rigour as you did today when we examined the last finance bill. I have noted, Mr Minister, that you have appealed to the voluntary contributions of collective societies, which will also be called upon to repatriate their own actions of general interest within this new structure, thereby losing their control over them. Unfortunately, we are accustomed to a majority who decides for others, without the others, with the money of others, or through foresight committees or professional committees which are devoid of any formal character and which do not commit to anything. I am sorry to break the fine unanimity that you have called for, Mr rapporteur. It could exist if certain guarantees were provided. Our discussions could provide us with an opportunity. We will support amendments to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u69	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u70	Article 1, which establishes the National Music Centre, has been substantially enriched by our work in committee. It gives the NJC all the skills necessary for its success. Nevertheless, in order to re-establish the field of recorded music, live entertainment and varieties, the group La République en marche will support an amendment whose object, I believe, will be shared by all. Moreover, the Government's proposal to add artistic and cultural education to the NJC's missions would enable the NJC to promote access to the musical practice of as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u71	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u72	Article 1 details the seven missions of the National Music Centre. Waited for the industry for more than a decade, this project of a common house of music, imagined under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, unfortunately abandoned under the previous quinquennium, returns to the front of the stage. This project makes sense at a time when the French recorded music sector is returning to growth and needs to be supported to strengthen its position in a highly competitive global market. In 2018, nineteen of the top twenty sales are albums produced in France and sung in French. This exciting result owes a great deal to the public, who plebiscite French artists, but also to the system in place – I am thinking of the phonographic tax credit and the quotas of French songs broadcast on radio. However, this growth remains fragile. Streaming, the engine of growth, remains a market of conquest. The NJC must establish a direct link between professionals in the music industry, communities, their groups, their public institutions and those involved in artistic creation. We must do justice to all local actions that have been carried out for years in our territories in support of musical creation. Unlike the Government, our territories have not remained inactive and many initiatives have emerged, in coordination with the communities. I am thinking of orchestras, choirs and music schools that transcend the cultural action of the territories. The Government, so quick to boast – to boast only – decentralization, would do well to draw inspiration from it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, you still seem to be hesitant about governance, which is dealt with as a minimum in this bill. Without falling into the trap of a plethora of directors, it is necessary to preserve the voice of professionals, authors, artists, music publishers, phonographic producers and producers of live performances, alongside the state, communities and employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u73	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 9 and 109. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u74	This amendment aims to include all the aesthetics currently covered by the National Centre for Song, Variety and Jazz within the scope of the future National Music Centre. The name "CNM", restricted in the state to music, would tend to exclude entire sections of the living show – humor, musical comedy, cabaret – and to create an instance with a narrower field of competence than that of the three organizations to which it replaces. This is obviously not the purpose of the bill. Amendment No 9 therefore seeks to supplement paragraph 1 with the words "and varieties". This new organization, long awaited by professionals, would be called "National Centre for Music and Varieties" and would thus make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u75	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u76	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] This amendment is identical to the previous one. We would like to make it clear that the missions of the new National Centre for Music include the entire scope of action of the National Centre for Variety and Jazz, so that all variety shows, including humour shows, musicals and cabarets, are covered by the NJC's scope of action. The amendment therefore seeks to supplement paragraph 1 with the words "and varieties".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u77	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u78	Similar amendments were rejected in committee. It seems essential to me that the scope of the NJC include variety shows. We have adopted an amendment in committee to clarify that the aid schemes provided for in paragraph 4 benefit varieties. In paragraph 2, I will also table an amendment that will clarify that the NJC's general scope of intervention covers recorded music, musical and variety performances. However, it does not seem desirable to change the name of the National Music Centre, which must remain relatively simple. The term "music" is likely to gather up to the music of varieties. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u79	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u80	I share your willingness to unambiguously include varieties or what is related to this term within the NJC's scope of competence. I'm talking about the term "varieties" because the term "varieties" is not clear, either. Are humor and musicals part of it? These cuts seem to me to be outdated, as I have already had the opportunity to deplore during the examination of the finance bill and among the players in the sector. On the other hand, it is important that the text be clear on this point. Undoubtedly, the NJC's scope of expertise takes into account what is considered variety, including humour, musicals and cabaret. Let's keep the title as clear as possible: Centre national de la musique. It's clear, precise, short, effective and powerful. Music is found in musicals, as well as cabarets, to a lesser extent. As for humorous shows, they remain apart but we are not going to name this body "National Centre for Music and Humor"! In any event, humour falls within the scope of the NJC's competence. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u81	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u82	I am very sensitive to your arguments regarding the term "varieties", by which one will not necessarily define musical or humorous performances. However, here we relay the demand of professionals who need to be reassured, especially since last year's finance law which excluded from the tax credit in favour of phonographic production the variety and live performances. It is better to be clear and precise: that is why I maintain my amendment. If I hear your arguments, I also consider that the variety should be included in the marble of the law. I know we can count on you, minister, because you have taken stock of the issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u83	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u84	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] I agree with the Government. Imagine that the National Film Centre was entitled "National Centre for Film, Documentary Film and Comedy". That wouldn't be clear! By virtue of the parallelism of forms, I propose that you remain, after the National Film Centre, at the National Music Centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u85	That's the point! The title is not "Centre national du cinéma" but "Centre national du cinéma et de l'image animée"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u86	[[Mr. Gaël Le Bohec applauds]] I know, thank you! Let's make it simple, and remember the name "National Music Centre". All types of music will enter his field of expertise, up to humor shows, and everyone will be happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u87	We're relaying a request from professionals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u88	I call Mrs Duby-Muller to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u89	The aim of this amendment is to recall the urgent need for the National Music Centre to play a complementary role with the local actions, which have been carried out by our territories for years, in the field of musical support. The Centre national de la musique must be able to be in direct contact with local professionals in the music industry, throughout the French territory, whether it concerns local authorities, their groups, their public institutions or those involved in artistic creation. It is a matter of ensuring a national centre anchored in our territories. I know, Mr rapporteur, that you have planned another wording to incorporate this dimension, but it seemed to me ambiguous and vague. I therefore preferred to table this amendment again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u91	It is true that local and regional authorities are the primary support for music policies in our territories. In fact, we know the translation that can be made of it through artistic and cultural education, a subject that prevails in this text. We voted in committee on an amendment to link the action of the NJC to that of local and regional authorities, drafted differently from yours. I do not think that it is necessary to quote the CASL legislation, even if it is in the spirit of this bill, which you had to refer to when I read my report. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u92	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u93	Section 3 of the LCAP Act guarantees, inter alia, the diversity of cultural creation and expression, the freedom of artistic dissemination, and the freedom to choose cultural practices and artistic expression. The members of the GDR Group believe that it would be good if Article 1 of this draft law on the establishment of the National Music Centre referred to Article 3 of the LCAP Act, in order to give all its ambition to the steps and tasks of the CNM.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u95	The provisions of section 3 of the CASL Act, which deal with the objectives of the artistic creation policy, will of course apply to the NJC. However, this reference to another law would only increase the drafting of the text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u96	I have before me three amendments, Nos 69, 59 and 77, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 59 and 77 are identical. Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u97	While it is possible to discuss the presence of the word "varieties" in the title of the Act, it is essential to include it in section 1, paragraph 2, so that the scope of the NJC covers the merger of all existing arrangements. Even if you deny the importance of the word "varieties", it is nevertheless proven: for example, the absence of this word in the finance law has brought humor and musical comedy out of the field of the tax credit. It is important to ensure that this sector will not be left out again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u98	I call Mr Pascal Bois to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u99	The aim of this amendment is to restore the scope of the NJC, which has been removed in committee, while including variety shows.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u100	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u101	The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish, in paragraph 2, the definition of the scope of the National Music Centre, which is no longer specified in the current wording of Article 1. As envisaged in the original text of the bill, the National Music Centre is intended to intervene in the field of recorded music and live musical performance. In addition, in order to ensure continuity between the current National Centre for Song, Variety and Jazz and the new National Centre for Music, the proposed scheme also includes live variety shows, including humor shows and cabarets, within the NJC's scope of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u102	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u103	With regard to Amendment No 69, I would like to point out that we are all committed to re-establishing the definition of the NJC's scope of intervention, which was mistakenly deleted during the examination of the text in committee – I am thinking in particular of varieties. We also agree to join the field of variety shows, which are currently within the scope of the CNV. However, the wording of the identical amendments Nos 59 and 77 makes it possible to retain the concept, added in committee, of permanent consultation with the whole sector. I therefore call for Amendment No 69 to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u105	Like the rapporteur, I would ask for Amendment No 69 to be withdrawn in favour of the two identical amendments Nos 59 and 77, the wording of which seems to me better because it preserves an addition, resulting from an amendment by Mrs Bergé adopted in committee, to include the action of the CNM in a process of consultation with the whole sector. I therefore call on you to withdraw your amendment, Mrs Dumas, especially since you have made a great deal of previous emphasis on the need for consultation. I would like to reassure you that working with professionals is in line with the Government's philosophy. This is the reason why several details do not appear in the current text: the Government, under the remarkable leadership of Catherine Ruggeri, is discussing with the professionals so that we do not decide here in their place. I have already told Mrs Kuster that we will keep you constantly informed of the progress of our work. This will allow you to know what the governance and funding of the NJC will ultimately be. I therefore call for Amendment No 69 to be withdrawn and give an opinion in favour of identical Amendments Nos 59 and 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u106	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u107	I will not withdraw my amendment: it has the same purpose as the two identical amendments, but it bothers you to adopt it because it is mine! The pretext for consultation is not serious: it has been discussed two years ago and two reports have already been submitted. You cannot talk to us about consultation even though you are organizing a merger without giving the necessary guarantees. You spend your time asking us to issue blank cheques to the executive branch. I do not call this consultation. As far as culture is concerned, there has been no consultation and no report has been submitted, while the budget amounts to EUR 40 million. You're not serious. That is why, I repeat, I will of course not withdraw my amendment. To ask me is to make fun of the profession, which is aware of it, I assure you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u108	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u109	The amendment on consultation has, I believe, been adopted unanimously by the committee, which has demonstrated its commitment to a permanent process of consultation, which must be re-affirmable in the text. It would therefore be harmful and inconsistent to delete the mention of this consultation, whereas, I repeat, we have all agreed in committee to provide for it. Let us reaffirm this together, while extending the definition of the NJC's scope of intervention to varieties. To ensure such cooperation seems to me, moreover, to meet the expectations of the profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u110	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u111	It is important to clarify the NJC's mission so that it does not suffer from any restrictive interpretation in its implementation. This amendment therefore clarifies that the NJC supports the professional music sector as well as the variety sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u113	This amendment would have been relevant if paragraph (2), which, in a way, covers the entire article, had not restored the scope of the NJC's intervention, in particular by including varieties. The amendment is therefore satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u115	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u116	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u117	My amendment, which comes after two other amendments on the same subject, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u118	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u119	It aims to support the practice of music, which is not specifically mentioned in the text. I ask you, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, to acknowledge the full value of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u121	The intervention mechanisms referred to in paragraph 4 shall cover professional activities; However, practice does not constitute one as such. Through these devices, the existing structures, the CNV, the FCM, the MRIA and the Bureau export de la musique française already support economic actors who take risks to produce, edit and broadcast musical works. This is the intervention logic which the NJC will naturally follow. On the other hand, I would like the NJC to play a role in artistic and cultural education policy, but rather in the impetus. Subsidy arrangements must remain within the jurisdiction of the CARD – the minister has already specified the de-concentrated missions that will remain in the direction of the territories. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u122	Mr Pascal Bois's amendment No 42 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u123	I call Mr Pascal Bois to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u124	This amendment is intended to delete paragraph 5, which was adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u125	I call Mrs Duby-Muller to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u126	This amendment specifies, in paragraph 6, that the NJC's export support mission applies to both live phonogram and performance productions and musical works.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u128	This amendment has already been rejected in committee, in a joint debate, for the benefit of another amendment to include in the text support for the dissemination of works abroad. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u130	This amendment is satisfied, thanks to the amendment already adopted in committee, which I welcome as the rapporteur. Like you, it seems to me very important not to limit the missions of international development to productions alone, but also to target the works, which are the very heart of musical creation. We are therefore pursuing the same objective which, I repeat, is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u131	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 5, 15, 34, 70, 91 and 102. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u132	It states that the NJC's export and outreach support mission applies to both live phonogram and performance productions and musical works. Indeed, the wording chosen by the Committee on Cultural Affairs tends to oppose productions and works, the former to be supported by export, with a purely economic aim, and the latter by virtue of their influence, with a purely artistic aim. However, musical works and productions are both economic and artistic objects whose development the CNM should be able to support abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u133	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u134	My arguments are substantially the same. I shall perhaps ask for the floor again on the basis of the response of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u135	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor in support of Amendment No 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u136	We have discussed the matter at length in committee. In paragraph 6, I too wish to replace the words "musical productions, the influence of works and" with the words "and the influence of musical works and productions as well as". It should be noted that the NJC's export and outreach support mission applies to both live phonogram and performance productions and musical works. Indeed, the current writing tends to oppose the productions and works, the first to be supported by export, with a purely economic aim, and the second to be supported by their influence, with a purely artistic aim. However, musical works and productions of live recording or performance are both economic and artistic objects, the NJC should be able to support development abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u137	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u138	We must show common sense: a work cannot be exported if it is not produced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u139	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u140	The purpose of this amendment is to expand the NJC's mission regarding the international development of the sector not only to musical productions, but also to works. Indeed, the text, by limiting the mission to musical productions alone, sets aside a large part of the work of artists, namely their works such as scores, compositions and all the objects resulting from artistic production.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u141	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u142	I, too, would like to correct a drafting error committed in the course of our work in committee. It should be noted in paragraph 6 that the NJC works not only on works, but also on musical productions. We have tangled ourselves between export of productions and radiation of works. In order to make the text more intelligible, it is therefore necessary to put on the same level works and productions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u143	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u144	We have already mentioned the matter at length in committee. The CNM will support productions – this is how the Bureau export de la musique française already operates, which in fact contributes to the influence of the works.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u145	It might as well be included in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u146	In addition, to repeat your formulation, if it goes without saying that works are radiating, it seems difficult to radiate productions. Each seems to make this provision a reading with variable geometry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u147	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u148	This is a semantic debate, if I may say so. In fact, productions are exported and the influence of the works is ensured. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u149	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u150	In order not to repeat the arguments of our colleagues, I said that I would take the floor again according to the minister's answer; In addition to the CNM's support for the dissemination of musical works and productions, paragraph 6 provides for support to French artists abroad, which is far from anecdotal. Since the export bureau has been mentioned by the rapporteur, I would like to hear you on this point, Mr Minister. Indeed, it is important to support our artists friends abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u151	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u152	Paragraph 6 makes it clear that the NJC contributes to "support for the export of musical productions, the dissemination of works and the presence of French artists abroad".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u153	Mr Pascal Bois's amendment No 44 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u154	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u155	We wish to extend to composers the international development mission of the sector entrusted to the CNM. The composers who work with artists represent a significant part of the music sector and are sometimes at the very origin of the musical work. Parolers, producers and rhythmic designers, for example, must be able to benefit from the support of the NJC in the same way as artists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u157	As you will understand, the authors of this bill wanted a little talkative text and rather effective terminology. If you are right to say that the composers have their full place in the device, they are in my view artists, quite simply. Musicians are artists. We are not going to multiply the categories. I insist: the composers have their full place in this text as far as they are artists. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u158	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u159	In the general discussion, I pointed out that women were too weak in the music trades. I recalled that only 4% of conductors are women, that 22% of directors are women directors. It is therefore necessary for Article 1 to state that the NJC promotes equal access for women and men to the musical professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u161	I am rather in favour of this amendment: the place of women in the music industry is such an important issue! I remember in committee having pointed out that there is indeed a need for a little more effort in favour of women in certain sectors such as urban music. This amendment will also satisfy a request from Mrs Rixain, whom I see already approaching the microphone...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u163	Equality between women and men is a priority of the Government and the majority. This is an objective assigned to all the public institutions of the Ministry of Culture, which are asked to establish programmes promoting equality between women and men – actions to this end are systematically provided for in the performance contracts – and are evaluated as such. The NJC will not derogate from this rule. If it is therefore not necessary, from a legal point of view, for the text to mention this objective, the importance of the fight for equality between women and men, which is a priority of the Government and the majority, prompts me to give a favourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u164	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u165	It is good to recall in our Chamber how much priority should be given to women's access to practice and to the artistic professions. We know in particular that, in the music sector, women develop their talents, be they conductors, slampers, rappers, rockers, and that they obviously excel as much as men. It is worth mentioning that the NJC is an actor in equality between women and men. That is why Members of the La République Group will vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u166	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to support Amendment No. 114.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u167	The artistic creation activities carried out by amateurs were recognized and secured by the law of 7 July 2016 on freedom of creation, architecture and heritage. This was a long-awaited stage for more than 12 million amateur artists in France. If they do not live music in the professional sense of the term, they live their art passionately. It is indeed these musicians who animate our communal festivals such as the bandes and orchestras, who organize shows and concerts in our territories where, every 21 June, this beautiful festival of music is held. They can also teach singing and music classes in an associative setting. However, the text makes no reference to all this part of artistic creation which, alongside the professional sector, contributes to the vitality of musical practice in the territories and to the economy of French music. In addition, the economic challenges associated with the digital revolution and changes in public practice affect both the amateur sector and the professional sector. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to clarify that the future economic observatory for the whole sector will deal with many issues related to the amateur sector. This observatory will allow for a better analysis of the economic field of sales, the methods of disseminating musical works and, overall, the impact of the music sector on the French economy. He may also be interested in the amateur world, which, unlike the professional world, does not have the means to rely on extensive technical analysis. The Observatory could thus provide concrete and useful data for associations, but also provide advice and participate in the development of guides, with the aim of anticipating the needs of amateur associations. I would point out that this amendment is very much in the interest of our colleague Paul Molac, who was unable to come and defend him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u169	You are right, dear colleague, amateur practice is essential and I am all the more aware that I have been deputy mayor of culture in a territory where music schools, in particular, are very active. In our report, Émilie Cariou and I put the emphasis on this part of the musical activity, beyond the mission entrusted to us, more focused on the music industry as such. You will have noticed this when you read the report: the NJC will have in the first place an industry observation mission. But nothing will prevent him from expanding his field of intervention in order to make a much more complete diagnosis. However, your proposal is more a matter of the decree than of the law; I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u171	Same opinion. It must be understood that the NJC will take over missions previously carried out by other agencies, including the NVC. However, the CNV's observation mission took into account the economic issues of the amateur sector – a mission that will now be one of the CNM's missions. Since your amendment is superfluous, I also propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u172	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u173	This amendment provides for the NJC to include an observatory of subsidies to the music sector. You will tell me that we can already find information in the budget yellows published each year as part of the finance bill. Of course, but this is a long document concerning several beneficiaries, and it is sometimes not easy to know whether or not they belong to the music sector. My amendment deals only with music. It could be useful because, as I said earlier, some festivals do creation, in the sense that they place orders to composers, and benefit from nothing at all, unless a few local authorities agree to subsidize them. [[Smile]] On the other hand, Minister, I understand that you are not satisfied that I am quoting your 2011 report, but I enjoyed reading it this weekend. You were right to say that in 2012, the Government had renounced the creation of the NJC, but I don't think it was necessary to do so – I am surprised at you! I recognize without a problem that, in the field of culture, things could probably have been improved during the previous quinquennium. I have even tabled an amendment, which has fallen as a result of the adoption of Amendment No 43, but which recognises the extremely damaging impact of the fall in state subsidies to conservatories. In any case, it is necessary to have a slightly clearer view of the subsidies paid to the whole sector, whether it concerns festivals, composition or creations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u175	You are right: it would be interesting to have a much more comprehensive view of all the public funding devoted to the sector. However, details of the missions of the observatory will have to be included in the decree. As the Minister said, the CNV currently does not always have the means to have an efficient observatory. That is why, as I said at the beginning of the session, one of the NJC's priorities will be to target levers such as tax credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u176	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u177	Among the seven missions proposed to the CNM, the fourth takes over the management of the economic observatory of the entire music industry. However, the current wording does not specify the existence of a steering committee for this observatory. The legislative provisions introduced by the CASL Act should therefore be retained in law by specifying the scope of the mission proposed in paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u178	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u180	The detailed organisation of the sector observatory is at the regulatory level. The steering committee chaired by Catherine Ruggeri is working on this. I would add that the observatory that had been assistant to the CNV did not come into being because of lack of agreement on its governance. The same setbacks should not be repeated by freezing an organization too heavy in the law. It is an observatory that makes economic data available, not a political body. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u182	Unfavorable opinion. As I said earlier, the LCAP Act provided for the establishment of a steering committee representing the entire music industry, including activities not covered by the CNV, to monitor the activities of the observatory. However, the CNM will cover the entire music industry. It was said earlier very clearly that there would be, in addition to the board of directors, a professional committee that would bring together all professionals in the sector. We will take the opportunity to remove the policy committee under CASL but never put in place. Let's not create two redundant systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u183	Amendment No 45 by Mr Pascal Bois is a drafting amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u184	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u185	This amendment was drafted by my colleague Philippe Berta, who has no opportunity to be with us tonight to defend him. It is intended to supplement paragraph 8 with the words "in particular on training courses". The current organization of graduate studies in music and the diplomas that award them is an obstacle to the professional development of French musicians and music teachers internationally. Only two higher national conservatories of music and dance are entitled to award the national higher professional diploma of musician, which is part of the Bologna process of mutual recognition of diplomas in Europe. By way of comparison, Germany has 30 institutions with a recognized higher education degree in music outside its borders. The diplomas awarded by regional and departmental conservatories, depending on the Ministry of the Interior, are undervalued and considered equivalent to the baccalaureate. They do not permit recognition or equivalence abroad, even though the studies to obtain them are considered difficult. The university courses, for their part, provide training in musicology and not music. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to clarify that the educational information and guidance missions of the future NJC will include training courses, with complex readability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u187	The mission referred to in paragraph 8 corresponds to that of the MRIA, which is currently intended to inform and guide professionals and those who wish to engage in the publishing, production, distribution, distribution and dissemination of works. The aim is to help them find partners and to inform them about the regulations and the aids to which they are entitled. The types of training that you mentioned are more the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, within the framework of its regal competences, than of MRIA. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u188	It's just information!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u189	We are in favour of this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u190	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u191	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u192	Mrs. Petit, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u193	In the absence of Mr. Berta, I cannot withdraw him. I would just like to make it clear that this is only about information on training.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u194	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u195	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We support Mr Berta's excellent amendment, tabled very clearly by Mrs Petit. It is a question of informing about training: the aim is simply to do pedagogy on existing training courses. This is not at all a matter for me to know what regal competences the Ministry of Culture has, which, moreover, do not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u196	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u197	This amendment is satisfied: it is very clear in paragraph 8 that the NJC is responsible for providing information, guidance and expertise. The training courses obviously fall within the scope of the fact-finding mission, but, as the rapporteur said earlier in giving his opinion on Mrs Rabault's amendment, we are not going to start detailing all the information that will be provided by the National Music Centre! To be too precise, there is a risk of excluding the necessary information. Let us make sure that the law is precise, not talkative, and that it allows us to include all the missions that can be fulfilled in the future, including information on training.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u198	Training is still very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u199	The next speaker is Mrs Frédérique Lardet, in support of Amendment No. 119.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u200	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure the vocational training of entrepreneurs within the NJC, but also of project promoters. Indeed, the term "entrepreneur" seems to me to be reducing, if it is taken in the strict sense: it might suggest that a certain legal regime is necessary to benefit from the service, "entrepreneur" frequently referring to a incorporated commercial enterprise. However, in the sector covered by this bill, there are many forms of grouping that coexist: associations, cooperative and participatory societies – SCOP –, governing bodies, groups of employers, among others. Therefore, adding the words "project promoters" would broaden the scope of eligibility in a sector where the concept of a mixed economy and a social and solidarity economy is quite dominant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u202	I understand the meaning of this amendment, which extends the right of the entrepreneur to the one who can claim to become an entrepreneur one day, and who is initially a project promoter. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u204	I understand the objective of the amendment, but from a legal point of view, the concept of "project promoter" is not very precise. Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u205	Mr Pascal Bois's amendment No 46 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u206	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u207	In the face of the risks to the diversity of musical creation, the National Music Centre must have an expertise role with the public authorities in suggesting legislative and regulatory changes to preserve cultural diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u209	This amendment was rejected in committee because Roch-Olivier Maistre, Émilie Cariou and I do not want the CNM to recover all the powers of the central administration in the field of music. Some of the functions of the Ministry are regal: the definition of policy and the reflection within the legislative and regulatory framework must, in my view, remain within the competence of the Ministry. This will not, of course, prevent the NJC from being a force of proposal, but it is not necessary to include this jurisdiction in the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u211	The preservation and promotion of musical diversity is truly at the heart of the NJC's project. However, since this public institution lacks any regulatory role, the strategic competence for legislative proposals must remain in the hands of the State and, in this case, the Ministry of Culture. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u212	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u213	The sharing of value within the music industry is affected by the digital revolution. The economic models of digital platforms reduce the remuneration of artists compared to those of physical media. This often results in insufficient income for creators. The large concentration of the sector on some popular artists compromises the diversity of the musical offer by not allowing small artists to live properly of their creations. It is therefore appropriate for the new National Music Centre to address this issue by monitoring the sharing of value within the music industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u215	If there's one topic I can join you on, it's one of value sharing. As we have heard in some interventions, this distribution is not necessarily very equitable. However, as I indicated in committee, this falls within the objectives of the economic observatory for the sector referred to in paragraph 7. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u217	Same opinion. We are at the heart of the missions of the CNM and the observatory, which is precisely quoted in the text. We need to look very closely at what is happening in terms of sharing value: this is the objective assigned to the observatory. We are well aware that the digital revolution has raised real questions in this regard; That is why we have all fought for the adoption of the Copyright Directive, which is a great victory for Europe. This will of course be included in the missions of the National Music Centre, but it is not necessary to specify this in the law, except to have to detail everything that will be studied by the observatory. I repeat, the sharing of value is a very important issue, which we are going to tackle within the NJC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u218	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u219	In the face of the challenges posed by the disruptions in the value-sharing generated by the digital revolution in the music industry, it would be interesting for the CNM to make its expertise in the sector available to the public authorities to propose legislative and regulatory developments that improve the incomes of players in this cultural industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u221	I will give the same answer as on the previous amendment: nothing will prevent the NJC from making proposals to its tutelage. His observatory of the economy of the music industry will allow him to have a good knowledge in fine of the sharing of value. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u222	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u223	This amendment is important to me because it is particularly important. As you know, I, together with our colleague Bertrand Bouyx, conducted a flash mission on the new security charges for theatres and festivals. The purpose of this amendment is to insert in Article 1 a paragraph enabling the National Music Centre to manage the intervention fund for the safety of cultural sites and events. Indeed, I want to give a legal basis to this fund, with €2 million in 2019 and currently managed by the CNV. It helps to support performance organizers in the face of the exponential rise in security costs, which, as we have pointed out during our mission, sometimes hurts festivals. This would make it possible to sustain the scheme – as you know, the professionals are very worried – and to prevent it from being called into question from one year to the next or its implementation delayed – this year was the case for the Bourges festival, as the Government did not activate the decree in due course. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As far as safety is concerned, the accompaniment of entertainment professionals requires both time and readability. That is why I can really insist on this much-anticipated amendment to ensure the safety of the venues and the functioning of this fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u224	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u225	This amendment is satisfactory: we have added a paragraph 13 in committee that fully responds to your request for the intervention fund for the safety of cultural sites and events. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u227	This is indeed reflected in the Commission's text. I confirm that this is a very important subject and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the work of Mrs Kuster and Mr Bouyx, who have produced a very good report on this subject. I therefore request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, I'll give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u228	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u229	After such words, what to say? I believe that this amendment is satisfactory and that we are all committed to the sustainability of the scheme. Perhaps we could have added the word "funds" in connection with the management of an aid scheme: it is still an emergency fund. You will reply that, by definition, it is not intended to be sustainable, but I would have liked the NJC's security skills to be clarified. However, I will not do semantics, minister; I trust you and withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u230	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 93.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u231	Even if this is included in the pre-figuration mission, I would like to add a paragraph echoing what I said earlier and specifically referring to classical music – I see the opine minister. I understand that each mission is specific and that the new National Music Centre will take our concerns into account. Nevertheless, the music rooms – at the Philharmonie and elsewhere – observe an ageing of the audience, confirmed by a number of studies. In 1980, sociologists published studies showing that the public was on average 35 years old; Today, it has grown older as the years have passed. A specific reflection must therefore be made on the audiences of classical music: this is the meaning of this amendment aimed at adding a paragraph to Article 1 relating to the tasks of the CNM.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u233	You're referring to your previous statement calling our attention to classical music. If we mention this kind of music in the bill, we will have to quote them all, as the minister said earlier! The National Music Centre supports the entire music and variety sector, regardless of aesthetics. It covers all fields of music. This does not mean that the NJC will not conduct reflections on classical music, on its diffusion or on the evolution of audiences, in connection with artistic and cultural education. Unfavorable opinion: the point is of course relevant, but we cannot cut or sausage the music.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u234	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u235	To move in the direction desired by Céline Calvez and most of us, this amendment aims to extend the missions of the National Music Centre to artistic and cultural education. This is one of the recommendations contained in Roch-Olivier Maistre's report; It is also included in the report by Pascal Bois and Émilie Cariou. As Céline Calvez pointed out earlier, artistic and cultural education is very important: it is therefore useful to mention it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u237	Favourable, of course. This proposal is supported by many of us, and indeed by all of us. I welcome the Minister for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u238	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u239	We are all in favour of expanding the NJC's missions, especially when it comes to artistic and cultural education. You mentioned Roch-Olivier Maistre's report, which also calls for an envelope of EUR 20 million. Expanding functions without funding is a problem, as the CNV's current revenues do not ensure this new competency. It would therefore be important to provide funding guarantees when you expand missions with, as always, the money of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u240	I call Mr Pascal Bois to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u241	In committee, some Members had criticized paragraph 12 for not being sufficiently prescriptive. I therefore propose that the word "associate" should be substituted for the words "ensure to associate".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u242	Amendments Nos 47 and 48 by Mr Pascal Bois are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u243	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-06-O1219.u244	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the proposed law on the establishment of the National Music Centre; Discussion of the proposal for a law to strengthen the support of vulnerable young adults towards autonomy. The meeting is adjourned.
