ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system (No. 2034, 2064).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u2	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u3	The text before us today has been agreed within the framework of the Joint Joint Committee. The compromise reached by the National Assembly and the Senate seems satisfactory to me. It preserves the course of the plan "my health 2022", one of the components of which is the expected reform of medical studies. It confirms the necessary changes in the organisation of care, whether territorial or hospital. It reinforces the digital shift, with the prefiguration of the health data platform, the digital health space or the telecare. It also provides the legal basis for creating the status of medical assistants and developing their presence throughout the territory. The text of the Joint Joint Committee also preserves the contributions of our Assembly. As far as medical studies are concerned, I am thinking in particular of expert patients, the decoupling over time of the reform of the first and third cycles, the evaluation of reforms and the revision of the zoning of medical specialties. As far as the organisation of care is concerned, I am of course thinking of the reform of the community hospitals, which had changed profoundly during the examination of the text in the National Assembly and which, in particular, made it possible to define clearly the tasks of these institutions. I am also thinking of a subject that is of particular interest to me: the possibility given to pharmacists, within a very strict framework, to deliver according to protocol medicines under compulsory medical prescription for everyday pathologies, such as cystitis or angina. Among the other provisions, I mention the opening of the procedure allowing the regularisation of practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union, the PADHUE, as well as the ethical progress made with, on the one hand, a strengthening of anti-gift schemes and, on the other hand, the transparency foreseen for Internet influencers financed by industry in the sector. The discussions with Mr.Milon, the Senate's rapporteur, had led to the identification of a major disagreement regarding Article 2, concerning the entry into the third cycle of medical studies. In a public sitting, the Senate had added a provision to provide, in the final year of the third cycle, internships of one year's duration in an outpatient exercise, primarily in underdenses, within the framework of supervised autonomy, but not related to tutoring. While everyone agrees on the need to fill posts in under-density areas, this laudable objective cannot be translated into training for students that removes the requirements of university education. As the internship is a supervised apprenticeship, it did not seem desirable to deprive ourselves of a follow-up within the existing framework of ASSPAS, the outpatient internship in primary care in supervised autonomy. The compromise proposal that emerged from our exchanges is very satisfactory. It aims to promote at least one six-month internship, primarily in sub-dense areas, for students engaged in the specialty of general medicine. The scheme provides for the possibility of extending this route to other specialties, in accordance with procedures to be laid down by decree. I would also like to point out that, on other matters, the Senate has brought welcome developments, thereby contributing to the conclusion of the compromise text. He has, for example, adopted an article aimed at merging the multiple support mechanisms for the coordination of the journeys of patients who coexist today: PAERPA, health path of elderly people at risk of loss of autonomy, PTA, or territorial support platforms, and MAIA, or method of action for the integration of aid and care services in the field of autonomy. This simplification is more than welcome. I am also thinking of the aspects of digital health. In particular, the Senate has made a very important step forward by providing for the automatic opening of the shared medical record for all by 2021, in the continuity of the contributions proposed by the MODEM group in our assembly. Our honourable senators have also proposed important, albeit more technical, provisions on system interoperability, which is sorely lacking in the field, or on the evaluation of diagnostic and therapeutic support software. This text, enriched by the contributions of our two assemblies, will allow us, together with the other parts of "My Health 2022", to arm ourselves with the many challenges that we face, and to guarantee, in the long term, throughout our territory, an offer of equal care and quality for all. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would particularly like to thank you for the quality of our exchanges and, through you, all your services, which have been particularly sought out throughout these many months of parliamentary work, with a special thought for Cécile Courrèges. I am delighted to see today the outcome of this text and "my health 2022", which will be a real step forward for the French in terms of access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u4	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u5	The days we often remember are those we have long waited for. This is one of them: we are gathered today for the final vote on the bill relating to the organization and transformation of our health care system. It is a great satisfaction that the two chambers were able to reach a common text and thus allow the enactment of this law by the end of July. However, this satisfaction is also accompanied, as I have already pointed out, by a great deal of humility and determination. Indeed, the expectations on the territories are very strong and we must now implement this text so that results can be felt quickly. The "my Health 2022" strategy is a paradigm shift that is also a change of culture, reasoning now centred around two axes: available or accessible medical time, to allow doctors to do what they are best qualified for, and off-the-shelf, so that isolated exercise becomes the exception and coordinated exercise the norm. Our ambition, and I know we all share it, is to transform our health system as a whole. Whether it is the way in which professionals are organised, financed and trained, or how they are exercised, we must not neglect any means to guarantee and improve access to quality care for all in all territories. Since my arrival in the ministry two years ago, I have sought to bring together all the actors around a priority: access to care for all French people throughout the country. This strategy is bearing fruit, as liberal health professionals have signed agreements with health insurance on the deployment of medical assistants and the financing of territorial health professional communities. I am convinced that this momentum and commitment will lead to the necessary and expected transformation of our health care system. The bill, which originally contained 23 articles, was significantly enriched by parliamentary work. Without going back to all the measures, I shall dwell for a few moments on those which appear to me to be the most emblematic of the changes that we are initiating: the abolition of the CAPES, the first year common to health studies, which will give way to an always selective and demanding system, but with a better place to the skills, the professional project and the quality of life of the students engaged in medical studies; the renovation of the second cycle of medical studies, with the abolition of national classifying tests; engaging in the process of re-certification of health professionals during their careers; the revision of the status of community hospitals, in order to adapt them to the daily care, open to the city and the medico-social. We have heard the reservations that have been expressed and we have thus been able to enshrine in the law the core missions and debate them, while the funding modalities will be defined in the PLFSS, the Social Security Financing Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u6	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u7	With the adoption of several parliamentary amendments, the scope of competence of certain health professions has been reviewed. I am thinking in particular of a measure dear to the rapporteur Thomas Mesnier: the issue by pharmacists of medicines under compulsory medical prescription, as well as the possibility for nurses to adapt the prescriptions and to prescribe certain products on non-prescription.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u9	I am also thinking of the inclusion in the Health Data Hub Act, which will promote the use and use of health data in the areas of research, health system management and patient information. I am thinking of the creation of the digital health area, an online personal account that will allow every Frenchman to access his shared medical file, applications and health information. I'm also thinking about the development of telecare. I will conclude this list by welcoming the balance that has been found for the development of intern courses in city medicine. This provision, the initiative of which belongs to the Senate, was important and a compromise could be found to maintain supervised training throughout the studies. Far from coercive measures, the law obliges the regional health authorities and agencies to find traineeships in the territories in tension as a matter of priority. The parliamentary work which is now ending on this text has been of great quality and the agreement reached by the Joint Joint Committee carries a strong message from all political forces, determined to respond, independently of partisan divisions, to the concerns of our fellow citizens regarding their access to care. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Members of the House, both the majority and the opposition, who have mobilized in committee and in public session. I appreciated the sincere exchanges we had, even though we did not always agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u10	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. Paul Christophe also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law now obliges us. In the context of growing inequalities in access to care, and in the face of major demographic changes, the transformation of our health system is not an option: it is an absolute necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u12	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u13	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Emergency of CHU – University Hospital – Nantes: on strike. CHRU emergency – regional and university hospital centre – in Brest: on strike. Rennes emergency: on strike. Lannion emergency: on strike. Caen's emergency: on strike. Carhaix emergency: on strike. Brive-la-Gaillarde emergency: on strike. The two emergency services of Tours: on strike. Angers emergency: on strike. The two emergency services of the Saint-Nazaire hospital centre: on strike. Bayonne emergency: on strike. Bordeaux's two emergency services: on strike. I see you're upset about that. It may be a little long, though, given the mess you put in!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u14	But it makes the minister laugh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u15	Lons-Le-Saunier emergency: on strike. The three emergency services in Lyon are on strike. Montceau-les-Mines emergency: on strike. Chalon-sur-Saône emergency: on strike. Besançon's emergencies, too, are on strike. Vesoul emergency, Bourges emergency, Vienna emergency: on strike. Mantes-la-Jolie emergency: on strike. Creil's emergency: on strike. Dieppe emergency: on strike. Lisieux emergency: on strike. Beauvais emergency: on strike. Rouen emergency: on strike. Annecy's emergency: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u16	This is the programme of La France insoumé!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u17	The 23 emergency services in Paris are also on strike. Strasbourg emergency: on strike. Mulhouse ER: on strike. Aix-en-Provence emergency: on strike. Marseille emergency: on strike. Château-Gontier emergency: on strike. Auxerre emergency: on strike. Creusot emergency: on strike. Mâcon's emergency: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u18	There's a lot of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u19	Arles emergency, Pithiviers emergency, Le Mans emergency: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u20	It's a lot of people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u21	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Autun's emergency: on strike. Eu emergency: on strike. Chinon emergency: on strike. Chambéry emergency: on strike. Avignon emergency: on strike. Juvisy-sur-Orge emergency: on strike. Longjumeau emergency: on strike. Orsay emergency: on strike. Emergencies of Semur-en-Auxois: on strike. There's more! Libourne emergency: on strike. Agen's emergency: on strike. Bourgoin-Jallieu emergency: on strike. Paray-le-Monial emergency: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u22	There's something for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u23	Toulouse emergency: on strike. Fréjus emergency: on strike. Emergencies of Montauban, Essonne, Morlaix, Vannes: on strike. Hospital emergency Rangueil: on strike. Nancy's emergency: on strike. Alençon's emergency: on strike. Moissac's emergency: on strike. The emergencies of Laval, Pau, Maubeuge and Feurs are also on strike. Oloron-Sainte-Marie emergency: on strike. Montbrison emergency: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u24	Make a proposal, Mrs. Fiat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u25	Marmande emergency: on strike. Saint-Étienne emergency: on strike. Saint-Pierre emergency: on strike. Melun's emergency: on strike. Sainte-Foy-la-Grande emergency: on strike. Toulon emergency: on strike. Cannes emergency, Épinal emergency: on strike. Digne-les-Bains emergency: on strike. The emergencies of Saint-Denis, Puy-en-Velay, Voiron and Martigues are on strike. Emergencies of Bergerac, Soissons, Reims: on strike. Bagnols-sur-Cèze emergency: on strike. Langon emergency: on strike. Orléans emergency: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u26	They must be given homeopathic treatment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u27	Pont-de-Beauvoisin emergency: on strike. Quimper's emergency: on strike. Emergency of Fougères, Concarneau, Roubaix: on strike. Périgueux emergency: on strike. Carpentras emergency: on strike. Neuilly-sur-Seine Public Hospital Emergency: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u28	Even Neuilly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u29	The voters of La France insoumise will strike!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u30	Eaubonne emergency: on strike. Remiremont ER: on strike. Sens emergency: on strike. The emergencies of Cherbourg-Octeville, Niort, Grasse, Seclin and Annonay are on strike. The Emergencies of Rochefort, Pointe-à-Pitre and Loches are on strike. Amboise and Contamine-sur-Arve are on strike. The emergencies of Saumur, Lourdes, Grenoble, Saint-Tropez are on strike. Trévenans emergency: on strike. Firminy's emergency: on strike. Cavaillon emergency: on strike. Tulle's emergency: on strike. Rodez's emergency: on strike. The two emergency services of the Flower Coast in Cricqueboeuf are on strike. Provins emergency: on strike. Thonon-les-Bains ER: on strike. Emergencies of Perpignan and Compiègne: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u31	All on strike!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u32	You're not doing the demagogy strike!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u33	Dunkirk emergency: on strike. Orange emergency: on strike. Orthez emergency: on strike. Châteauroux emergency: on strike. The emergencies of the intercommunal hospital centre of the Ariège valleys are on strike. Emergencies of Nevers, Joigny, Gonesse: on strike. Toul's ER: on strike. Suresnes' emergency room: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u34	What a spectacle for the children in the stands!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u35	The Emergencies of Villefranche-sur-Saône: on strike. Cholet's ER: on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u36	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u37	Pertuis' ER: on strike. Flers' emergency room: on strike. Brioude and Avallon's ER: on strike. The emergency department of Saint-Dié-des-Vosges: on strike. Emergencies of Mont-de-Marsan, Saint-Gaudens, Tonnerre: on strike. Meaux' emergency room: on strike. Clermont-Ferrand's ER: on strike. The emergencies at the CHU in Lille are on strike. Sarrebourg emergency: on strike. Jonzac's ER: on strike. De Jossigny: on strike. Coutances emergency: on strike. Bel Air Hospital ER, CHR Metz-Thionville: on strike. Arras emergency; on strike. Sisteron's ER: on strike. Chauny's ER: on strike. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Anyway – that's a nice word! For several weeks now, a white tide has been rising throughout France. I just mentioned the 181 emergency services that were on strike yesterday at midnight. Maybe they're more numerous today. I also cited the SMURs – Mobile emergency and resuscitation services – on strike throughout the country, in metropolitan France and in the overseas departments. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr. Jérôme Lambert also applauds]] I saved you – yes! – by quoting only emergency services, and not all hospital services on strike, because the fifteen minutes would not have been enough. Against the breakdown of the public hospital service, they shout loud and clear: "We're done with the syringe! "We're not robots! » "Saturated Emergencies, Patients at Risk! » Your bill will aggravate the situation and in no way respond to their demands. That is why the La France Insoumise Group supports this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u38	The facts are stubborn!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u39	The strikers too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u40	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u41	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Above all, I think that demagogy is not on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u42	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] I was hoping that you would use your time to make proposals. Unfortunately, as usual, these subscribers are absent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u44	I worked on the whole text at first reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u45	In any case, when we make proposals, they are never accepted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u46	I would just like to say how much this text will enable the health system to be reformed, transformed and adapted to the current needs of the French. In addition, a number of work on emergency services is underway – I know what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, I don't have much to add.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u47	We're far from having the solution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u48	This text is in the right direction, and as far as emergencies are concerned, further proposals will be made very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u49	In the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is Mr Ugo Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u50	I support this motion to reject beforehand, because the facts are stubborn – and the strikers too. They are right to stand up to this government, which does not engage in any discussion or consultation and is content with the appearance. We have, of course, made proposals, but it is no longer time to do so, since we are now in the text of the Joint Joint Committee. The bill is therefore either to be taken or to be left behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr. Jérôme Lambert also applauds]] Well, we're leaving him, point. We have explained to you why, and we are not the only ones. If there were only us to protest, you would judge it to be a temporary pain in the ass due to unsubstantiated France. But 181 emergency services – not counting other hospital services – are opposed to your policy, which includes the PLFSS component, which we will discuss later. You cannot ask 1.6 billion euros of savings from the public hospital and then arrive like lords by offering 70 million euros to solve the problem! We're making fun of the world! That is why the Group of the European People's Party calls for the rejection of this text in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u53	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] Of course, we support this motion to reject it beforehand. I would like to say to Mr Mesnier that democracy presupposes listening to each other. You are asking us to make proposals: start by accepting our amendments! You never accept our proposals, only yours! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jérôme Lambert also applauds]] This motion is important. We can mention all the emergency workers on strike, and we are right to do so. 183 services are now involved – two more than yesterday. In the territory I represent, Douai's emergency department is on strike. Why is it important? Because there is a gulf between the reality of your bill and the reality of the field. You never want to listen to anyone outside of yourself! It's the transformation of our health care system, you'll see what you're going to see, tell us. Well, we see what's going on! We're facing suffering, burn-outs, suicides, patients who get sick, but you're not listening! You speak of "my health 2022" without worrying about the situation in 2019. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left therefore obviously supports this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u55	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you for that list, Mrs. Fiat. Yes, there is an urgency, and that is why we are legislating, that we are taking important steps. We are reforming medical studies to make doctors more numerous. We are creating forms of open-ended exercise to ensure that medicine is practiced as close to the territories as possible, that care routes accelerate, in order to address the problem of access to the treating physician, medical deserts. Yes, we are acting urgently! The La République en marche group will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u57	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u58	I must acknowledge that the presentation made by Mrs Fiat is significant for a profound malaise in the health sector. However, Members of the Republican Group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u59	What a disappointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u60	For if this text can give rise to some progress for our health system, then we must try to apply it as difficult and even explosive as it is – as you have demonstrated very well, Mrs Fiat – in our public hospital, in its emergency services or in medical and social institutions such as residential institutions for dependent elderly people, the EHPADs – we are confronted with this problem every day in the Committee on Social Affairs. The same is true – and our group's parliamentarians regularly echo this – with regard to the sectors in the process of medical desertification. On this point, the most diverse voices are heard in this House, as the situation in rural areas is cruel. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] However, Madam Minister, we would like to alert you. This is the second bill to transform the health care system that I am voting for in less than three years. The first law, in 2016, did not change the problem. The second law should not have the same fate. Many questions remain: the capacity of the CHUs to accommodate the increase in the numberrus clausus, a measure which we agree with, but which seems not to have been the subject of a sufficiently thorough examination; medical desertification; the financial situation of public hospitals; the emergency services or the situation of PADEUs practising as nurses in medical and social institutions, which this text does not regulate in any way. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Béatrice Descamps and Jeanine Dubie also applaud]] Finally, Madam Minister, I have still not digested the fact that the provision introduced by the only amendment that our group had adopted at first reading, namely the possibility for parliamentarians to sit on the boards of oversight of public health institutions in an advisory capacity removed by the Senate, has not been re-established by the Joint Joint Committee because of the unwillingness of all the members of the majority, whether they come from the Senate or from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u61	And also opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u62	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs. Béatrice Descamps also applauds]] Mr Mesnier, you could have helped me on this point in the Joint Joint Committee. I didn't feel much support. This provision was rejected because no one had the will to support it in the Joint Joint Committee. I regret that this was the only amendment that you accepted and supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u63	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u64	We are talking about a motion to reject it beforehand. What are you rejecting, Mrs. Fiat? The reform of studies, that of the PACES, the boarding school, the local hospital, the organisation of care?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u65	The forgetfulness of patients, the oblivion of caregivers! I said everything at first reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u66	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group and several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] It's nice to make speeches. The role of parliamentarians is to formulate proposals, to vote for reforms and to act, not to recite litany! That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will oppose this motion for a preliminary rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u67	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u68	Our group will support this motion, for the reasons already expressed throughout the debate, and which I will elaborate on in the general discussion. We consider that the measures you propose will not allow us any progress: finally, the philosophy of the text lies, for the most part, in an adaptation to a complex situation, in a management of the shortage and in the apprehension of a very distant future. The upsurges of social or medical-social institutions and services, pioneers in telemedicine, reveal several obstacles to the use of this technique, including the remuneration and absence of health professionals in certain territories. On the other hand, you could have been expected, in the light of the emergency situation, to take immediate action, within this bill itself, instead of an umpteenth consultation which later referred to the resolution of the problems. The crisis of emergency services is indeed symptomatic of the needs of our health system, needs that your text ignores: for the public hospital, a suitable human and financial investment; a response to the suffering of the staff and to the tenibility of their work; the capacity to accommodate and hospitalise patients to meet the needs, in particular by stopping the closures of downstream beds. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches. – Alain Bruneel also applauds]] In the end, we are against this management of the existing at the lowest cost, because it will always penalize the same. For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u69	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u70	If I understand correctly, we are being proposed here to reject simply a text that we have been working on since, excuse me for a little, no less than four months. We had indeed begun the hearings on 5 March, hearing the ministers Agnès Buzyn and Frédérique Vidal. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] You have described a state of emergency, Mrs Fiat, and, frankly, if there is an emergency, it is good to act. This is precisely what this text is about, despite all the imperfections it may contain: we will return to it in the general discussion. The urgency, it seems to me, is not to leave the health care system on the strike, to launch a wave of reforms that will make sense, to bring about solutions. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss all this again with the PLFSS at the end of the year, or even with other texts submitted for our consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u71	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u72	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on a few benches of the FI group]] The minister will then be able to make further proposals to fill any gaps in the bill before us. After four months of work, it is time to move on and sign up for the duration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u73	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u74	The Libertés et Territoires Group will not, of course, associate itself with this previous rejection motion either, for a simple reason, clearly stated by Paul Christophe: there is an urgent need to act and to provide answers. Our colleagues at La France insoumée are familiar with the emergency situation as I am: quite frankly, the best answer is to initiate solutions, even if it is through an insufficient text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u75	He's making things worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u76	You completed your intervention, Minister, by pointing out that, for access to care, the fight was only just beginning. On this subject, which we care about, you are right. The fight, as we know, will be long-term. I would like to congratulate you on one point that I was also very fond of: shared medical records and digital platforms, which are a great lever for maximizing medical time spent on patients. In our view, things are changing too slowly, on the other hand, on the PADHUE. Jeanine Dubie will tell you a moment ago: you have with them an important pool of doctors, and starting with additional medical time to deploy. I regret Gilles Lurton: parliamentarians, and elected representatives in general, cannot be asked to participate in the elaboration of findings and to be active in their respective territories while excluding them from deliberative bodies when they define a particular territorial strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u77	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u78	It seems to me that there is territorial cohesion. My other regret relates to the pace of the deployment of the 400 doctors in the underfunded areas and the 4,000 territorial medical assistants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u79	400 for the whole of France, it's going to be fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u80	For talking to the head of the Regional Health Agency (ARS) in my region a few days ago, I plead for an acceleration on this point, because the expectations are high: every quarter, every year, indeed, we see that access to care, alas, is receding in the territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] It is therefore urgent to vote on this text and to move forward, on the understanding, Madam Minister, that the task is still tough and the road is long enough to ensure access to health care throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u81	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u82	Our colleague Caroline Fiat has clearly demonstrated that the Government has not taken the path of general interest on health issues. I will address two points: first, what we proposed and our vision of the health system; Then, to illustrate Caroline Fiat's remarks, the specific situation of a territory, La Réunion, where health problems are similar to those encountered in many other services. First of all, we have defended many amendments to the bill. Of course, you rejected them all, regardless of the interest of the population, the sick and the health care professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u84	So, Mr. Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u85	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Contrary to what you say, we have made proposals! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Thus, you did not want to include in the law the requirement to preserve our hospitals from the financial interests of private laboratories, which make profits on the backs of the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u87	[[Same movements]] You did not want to suspend reductions in the number of beds in health facilities. You have refused the abolition of the double conscience clause on IVG – voluntary termination of pregnancy. You did not want emergency measures against drug shortages...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u88	Yes! This is becoming urgent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u89	[[Same movements]] ... thereby endangering the lives of many sick people. You didn't want to protect our universities from commercial propaganda from pharmaceutical laboratories. You also did not want our medical students to be better trained against violence against women, even though Mrs Schiappa, your colleague, promised us to do everything possible to combat gender-based and sexual violence. I take this last point, because it allows me to make the connection with the situation in France. You did not want to improve the working conditions of hospital practitioners. All of this, however, was proposed in our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u90	That is, amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u91	This shows that demagogy, alas, is on your side. When I visited the CHU in Saint-Pierre de La Réunion a few weeks ago, then in the throes of a strike, I was able to see the working conditions of the healthcare workers, but also the conditions under which care is provided. The same is true for almost the entire island, particularly in my constituency at the GHER – Groupe hospitalier Est Réunion – in Saint-Benoît. [[Same movements]] Some services are overcrowded and beds are missing. The buildings are incredibly old. Our hospital staff can't do it anymore! They are understaffed on a permanent basis, combine overtime and struggle without respite against fatigue and stress. Our health care institutions are also experiencing financial problems, as the correction coefficient has not been increased for too long in this area. This is a form of discrimination for Réunionnais and Réunionnais. As elsewhere, La Réunion suffers from your policy, Madam Minister. Our caregivers are not well paid enough: the payment of a bonus will not be enough, and you know that. Our population, with the papy boom, ages very quickly. Our territory is experiencing epidemics of increasingly numerous and intense vector diseases. Many Reunions are affected by metabolic diseases, such as diabetes or kidney failure. What we need, minister, is no dizzying formulas, no more flexibility or digitization. We need, you understand, quality health facilities, and several hundred additional positions for caregivers. In La Réunion, we have sufficient human resources to provide it: men and women who are deprived of employment, and who have only one desire: to serve human beings and society. But you don't want it. Therefore, Madam Minister, you condemn us. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, the La France insoumée group will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u92	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u93	Cries of alarm, anger and suffering resonate throughout the country. Health facilities go badly, staff are exhausted, exhausted, breathless. Today, 183 emergency services have been on strike for several months for some of them. Emergencies are a magnifying mirror of the dysfunction of the health system. The summer is likely to be catastrophic, with several canicular peaks announced. What trade unions and staff are demanding are additional human and material resources, but also the valorisation of trades and the revalorisation of wages. Here is a summary, in a few words, of the reality experienced on a daily basis by a professional staff who are still standing – but for how long? Your answers, Minister, are to refer the problem back to later, with an emergency report announced this fall: another report, which will join the dust-covered ones that are stacked in the closets. The best relationship that can exist is the very expression of caregivers. I believe in union, citizen and collective intelligence. You have given a mission to MP Thomas Mesnier, the rapporteur of the bill "my health 2022" – and, faithful to his convictions, he will not be able to deny what he has written or co-written – and to Professor Carli, who has already delivered conclusions in 2013, in a report from which the following excerpt: "The problem of the withdrawal of emergencies far exceeds the difficulty expressed by the urgentists to "find beds". This is not an organizational problem or a failure of emergency medical teams. Emergencies saturation is primarily a health facility problem. It is most often the consequence and not the cause of a failure to organise the establishment. » In 2013, it is written black and white that the problem is not due to a lack of organisation; In 2019, the bill you are introducing is entitled "Organization and transformation of the health care system". Look for the mistake! To get back to the emergency, you will certainly tell me that you have released €70 million, of which €15 million to increase the number of staff where services are under stress and €55 million for the €100 premium paid to staff, except doctors. It is really a drop of water in the ocean, when you know that, for the years 2018 and 2019, you are asking health institutions to tighten their belts by making an effort of 2.5 billion, as the population and life expectancy continue to grow in France. More humans, more lives to care for, but less state money: no need to be mathematician to know the results in advance. It can't work. You said and repeated, Madam Minister, that you knew the situation. On 12 January 2018, on Europe 1, you even said: "Stop at the company hospital, to the administrative pressure, to the budgetary pressures. You are right: the hospital must not be run as a business. People must be given priority. When we talk about human lives, we should not talk about long-term reports, plans, figures, percentages and theories. Today, in hospitals, one hears the resounding of suffering and anger in the face of the lack of response. What is needed is "my health 2019", not "my health 2022"! It's right now that we have to take action! For several months, Communist parliamentarians have tabled a bill to introduce a moratorium on all closures of services and beds in hospitals. We suggest that you take this text out of the drawers and put it on the agenda of our assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] You have understood that, Madam Minister, and I have repeated it quite often in the media recently, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u94	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u95	On 20 June, Members of Parliament and Senators met in a joint committee to discuss the bill to reform our health care system. We can be pleased that an agreement has been reached on this important text, which commits us to a fundamental overhaul of our health system. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the collective work that has taken place: of course I am thinking of the rapporteurs Thomas Mesnier and Stephanie Rist, but also of Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, who is responsible for following the title I for the majority. I am also thinking of all those who, in the majority as in the opposition, sat on these benches throughout the discussion of the text. As we know, access to care is a major concern of French and French people. It is also a priority for the majority. Our health care system has strengths, but it has become considerably weakened in recent decades. Our society has changed; We have to deal with the ageing of the population and the explosion of chronic diseases. And it is because our society has changed that our health care system is no longer adapted to the new context and that it must change. It is in tension in terms of access to care One can mention the case of patients without a doctor, excessive waiting times for access to certain specialists, and I pass by. The bill's ambition is to fundamentally reform our health care system so that it can adapt to these changes. Unlocking, collaborating, sharing, sharing, and innovating: these were our objectives with this text. Together, on the occasion of the discussion of the text in the Assembly, we have succeeded in enriching it widely, in particular by strengthening the place of elected representatives in the organisation of care, by including disability in the territorial occupational health communities, or by providing for the delegation of tasks to pharmacists and nurses. Of course, we disagreed with several points that were passed during the Senate's consideration of the bill. I want to go back to two of them that I think are major. I am thinking first of all of the amendment aimed at ensuring that students complete their last year of postgraduate studies in independent outpatient practice. This provision was a real red line for the La République group, but, thanks to joint work with senators, we managed to transform it by setting up a semester internship into an outpatient practice, carried out in places approved as a priority in the subdenses. I think of the amendments tabled in the Senate that were intended to establish a right of option or to make several provisions relating to the integration of HHT, territorial hospital groups, optional. Recall that the bill "health" organizes a real act II of the GHT, which must allow more integration and mutualization in order to improve the provision of care in the territories, in particular access to community care. It was therefore essential for our majority to re-establish these provisions as voted by the Assembly. This was done by the Joint Joint Committee, which is a victory that we can welcome. You see that on issues on the margins, we have managed to find points of agreement in a constructive way. On the other hand, I welcome the CMP's unequivocal support for the measures at the heart of this text. I am thinking in particular of the reform of health studies and the abolition of the numerus clausus, which will finally put an end to so many years of human waste and absurdity. As we know, this reform will not bear fruit for ten years. It's a first answer, of course, but it's not enough...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u96	Not at all, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u97	... to combat the difficulties of access to care experienced by almost 20% of our citizens in so-called subdenses. We must count on all the forces involved: practitioners who have graduated outside the European Union, but also interns, who have all the skills to assist doctors who are overwhelmed. If we want to ensure that everyone in the country has access to care, we also want it to be of good quality. This is the objective of the gradation of care and the labelling of community hospitals. Of course, I am thinking of the digital shift in health, including the deployment of the DMP – the shared medical record – and, more broadly, the digital space in health, which has been unanimous. In this regard, I am pleased that honourable senators have improved the text by allowing the automatic opening of the DMP. These are the real focal points of the bill. It is around these measures that the President of the Republic's project is articulated. On all these major points of the text, MPs and senators were able to agree on the substance. The Senate did not question the measures that made the DNA of the bill. They aim to modernise the careers and careers of the medical professions, to improve the provision of care, and to develop digital health services. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Colleagues, the real challenge of this text is to have the assurance that we are moving towards a "4P" medicine: preventive, predictive, shared and personalized medicine. The Joint Joint Committee was able to find itself behind this modern and ambitious objective. Let's do the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u98	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u99	I would remind you that the majority of the Republicans have not voted on the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system at first reading, whether in committee or in public sitting...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u100	I voted for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u101	In fact, it seemed to us that this text was a few light years away from solving the catastrophic situation of access to care and hospitals, particularly emergency services. It is this situation that has been reminded of us by the demands of the yellow vests. They're still up to date. The performance of our health care system is uneven and a challenge is needed. Minister, our health care system needs real resuscitation. It struggles to meet the ever-increasing challenges of unequal quality, disenchantment of professionals and hospital, erosion of the place of France in the international ranking of biomedical innovation, of the territorial medical demography in breakdown... Having said that, I know you don't have a magic wand that would allow you to solve all the problems overnight. However, there is no explanation why two years have been required to draft a text whose main measures will ultimately be taken by order or decree. Legislating by prescription for a transformation of the health system may seem hasty. In recent times, this is the first time that such authorizations have been introduced into a bill to reform the health system. I am thinking of the texts that we discussed in the previous three legislatures, four health reforms over the past 15 years. This method deprives Parliament of a global debate. It is this method that we are contesting, because these authorizations apply to subjects of importance, be they community hospitals, TSPs – territorial health projects – or settlement medical commissions in local hospital groups. Once again, we are witnessing a fine demonstration of the technocratic vision emanating from the ministry, and a contraction of the concertation as well as the content and duration of the debates. Rather than respecting clear governance that would include the medical profession and citizens and build on a framework based on the needs of the territories, you have established administrative models worthy of the inefficiency of the methods used for years. However, it may be noted that some of the points that had previously been blocked have eventually evolved in the right direction. I am thinking of the details of the missions of community hospitals, the territorial health projects, or the organisation of the territorial health professional communities, in respect of which the role of regional health agencies has been reviewed. We have been in favour, under certain conditions, of the increase in the numberrus clausus, which has already been greatly increased for fifteen years, and of the abolition of the national classifying tests, which we would have wanted to regionalise. The Senate has, above all, clearly emphasized the needs of the territories, which we agree with, with a toolbox that includes the practice of task delegations for health professionals: doctors, pharmacists and nurses. While the strengthening of the role of local elected representatives in the territorial management of health was our ambition, it is regrettable, as our colleague Gilles Lurton pointed out, that the idea that we supported the strengthening of the presence of parliamentarians on the supervisory board of regional health agencies has not been supported. Indeed, because of the effects of the law prohibiting the cumulation of mandates, parliamentarians are now completely isolated. The ambition of the fight against medical deserts has finally been reduced to generalizing the possibility for students in the final year of the third cycle of boarding school to practice autonomously in the territories for six months under tutorship from a referent physician. The creation of a health data platform, replacing the former National Institute for Health Data, and the creation of the digital health space for every citizen and the DMP are welcome, provided that risks of piracy and commodification are protected. Telemedicine, to which I am very attached, which solves certain difficulties of access to a practitioner, is reinforced. There are still a few negative or totally missing points in this bill. I am thinking of the lack of a strategic vision for prevention and innovation, or of the lack of proposals on the status of university hospital centres. Consideration must also be given to the integration of the PADHUE, which are the forgotten of this text. They contact us every day to remind us that their situation is not regularized. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, this bill alone cannot respond to the crisis in our health care system. Nevertheless, the amendments made by senators, following the compromise reached by the Joint Joint Committee, provide some answers to the requests of the Territories. Therefore, despite our criticisms and the shortcomings of your bill, Madam Minister, I propose that my colleagues in the Republicans group vote in favour of the text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u102	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u103	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u104	We are looking at the Joint Joint Committee's conclusions on the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system, after extensive exchanges between the Senate and the Assembly on this important text. I can only welcome the fact that the Joint Joint Committee has been held in listening and benevolent conditions which have led to a consensus version. A spirit of compromise prevailed for the benefit of patients, citizens and the general interest. The many exchanges between our two chambers were necessary because of the very nature of the text. The draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system is indeed a structuring text, on the one hand because it involves the ambitious reform of medical studies, long overdue to put an end to the disaster of the PACES, which will ultimately help to combat medical desertification, on the other because it is carrying out a profound territorial reorganization of care, thanks to the cooperation of health professionals and an important digital component. We have managed to agree on a joint text. This text now represents a good balance between the contributions of the Assembly and those of the Senate. The exercise was far from easy, given a major disagreement on article 2 of the bill, concerning the third cycle of medical studies. I congratulate the rapporteurs who have been able to overcome the divisions which can sometimes oppose us in order to reach a compromise between freedom of establishment and the fight against medical deserts. In addition to Article 2, we welcome on behalf of the MODEM Group that an agreement has been reached on the participation of parliamentarians in territorial health councils – this may not be enough, as this is not the same as that on hospital boards of directors, but it is already a step. Indeed, we believe it is important to link national bodies to local issues. It was a point to which the MODEM Group, a strong advocate of local democracy, was particularly committed. I come to prevention, specifically "population responsibility" – you see, Mr. Door, that through this, prevention is dealt with in the bill! The CMP has made it possible to re-establish this important principle, in perfect harmony with the philosophy of the text. A population-based approach to prevention is more than necessary. With regard to the digital transformation component of our health care system, collaborative work has taken place between our two assemblies. At the initiative of our group, several amendments were adopted in the National Assembly, and supplemented by the Senate, in particular concerning the automatic opening of the shared medical file for all as early as 2021. This is a significant step forward in the coordination of care and better information for the patient. I also welcome the creation of the Health Data Hub, which will now be powered by preventive data from school medicine, maternal and child protection services and occupational medicine. This platform is a valuable tool to accelerate the digital shift in France's health by facilitating data sharing and valorisation. I hope that this progress will make it possible to reaffirm the innovative role of the French system, which must return to its pioneering character. Minister, parliamentary work is not over. We will remain attentive to the bills to ratify the various ordinances that will be submitted to us, in particular on the key issue of the establishment of community hospitals. In this regard, we thank you for the precise explanations you have given us, and for the inscription "in the hard" of the missions of these hospitals – they were a sensitive point. During the first reading, you committed yourself to presenting the orders to us upstream: this is an important commitment that we appreciate. So the appointment is made. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like once again to stress the fine spirit of compromise that irrigated our discussions, ignoring political differences, especially among all the members of the political groups who were present at the CMP meeting. I welcome the ambition of a text that will make it possible to reorganize our health system by offering flexible tools to health professionals. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore be happy to vote on this text, hoping that it will be the same on all the benches of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u105	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u106	This bill, which was to lead to a complete transformation of our health care system through an extensive emergency operation to cure chronic diseases, is ultimately nothing but small surgery – some will even say aesthetics. Because in the face of the monumental crisis in our hospitals, emergencies and maternity hospitals, and in the face of the ever-increasing medical desertification, the Government and the majority are proposing the policy of small steps: a small step towards reducing activity-based pricing, a small step towards the territorial organization of care, another step towards new so-called "neighbourly" hospitals. Some measures are interesting, but largely insufficient. Thus, the development of telemedicine and the reform of the numerus clausus go in the right direction, but if the first can be useful in some cases, in particular to facilitate exchanges between professionals and consultations with certain specialists, will never replace the presence of the general practitioner, and the end of the numerus clausus will bear fruit only in a good ten years and will remain useless if nothing is done about the territorial distribution of doctors. We, the Socialist and related group, had presented last January a proposal for a law against medical desertification, but your majority rejected the measures to regulate the installation of doctors, despite the support of many other groups. However, there was an urgent need to address medical desertification, since a territory without access to adequate care was a dying territory. The text resulting from the CMP certainly provides for a compulsory traineeship in outpatient practice, primarily in deficit areas: we will be particularly vigilant about the implementation of this measure, because in order to be effective, it will have to be accompanied by a massive development of teacher training courses at universities in under-denses areas. The bill now provides that the national convention between the order of doctors and health insurance involves a negotiation on the contribution of doctors to the reduction of territorial inequalities in access to care. We hope that the inclusion of the concept of territorial inequalities in a national convention will be a first step towards selective conventioning, along the lines of what we had advocated in our bill. We believe that the labelling of community hospitals is a communication operation, as a facility dedicated to community hospitals and eligible for adapted funding arrangements already exists since 2016. Where is the real novelty? Our fellow citizens do not want a new label: they want to stop the closures of hospital services. When the SRA unilaterally decides to close a maternity, one always hears the argument of insufficient quality of care, but would the closure of a hospital service in itself be synonymous with improved care? In Die, in the Drôme, it is the third baby born by the road since the closure of maternity! Would it not be better to improve the quality of community care by mobilizing additional resources rather than forcing women to take another ten kilometres, even if they gave birth in their cars? In 20 years, we have already lost half of our maternity homes. We have to stop this bleeding in our territories. Much of the response to the growing concern of our citizens, both in terms of health and in terms of all public services, is about proximity and the human being. Yes, the answer will come from the territories... provided that the means follow, which is not the case. After two and a half years, we can no longer trust the growing gap between communication and the reality of the Government's actions. And on this issue of proximity, as on many others, we had not found an answer in the Government's original bill. In the end, the text continues to suffer from a lack of comprehensive policy, which is the only response to the problems of access to care that are related to each other. Despite lengthy discussions in this House and in the Senate, the parliamentary review of this text and the agreement reached between your majority and the Senate right will not have been able to respond to the expectations of our fellow citizens. For this reason, socialist and related members will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u107	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u108	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] It is not recalled enough, but France has a formidable health care system: a universal system of equal access to care for all, driven by high-quality professionals who have only the goal of optimal care for the patient. This health system holds; but it suffers, and today returns a degraded image. In the absence of reforms and changes that are sufficiently extensive, internal dysfunctions are accumulating and affecting its functioning. Many, therefore, aspire to real changes in practices and profound reform. The IDU and independent group shares the Government's assessment of the situation of our health system and, like many French, was eagerly awaiting your text, Madam Minister, which is part of the broad objectives set out by the President of the Republic during the presentation of the "My Health 2022" plan last September. In the end, this bill is mostly structural, and while it does not attempt to solve all the difficulties in our health care system, far from it, it does have the merit of setting out broad guidelines to which we largely subscribe. The reform of health studies was an essential step, since there can be no reform of the health system without a reform of training. We welcome the abolition of the numerus clausus and your willingness, Madam Minister, to diversify the profiles of students, since general medical interns are now required to complete a six-month internship in the under-dense zone during their last year of study. The last year thus becomes a professionalizing year, out of hospital, in the territories. However, be careful to ensure that there are enough traineeships available. We regret, however, that the CMP has deleted Article 3 bis A, introduced by our group, which provided for the awareness of health professionals, during their initial and continuing training, of the specific situation of caregivers. The question of carers is dear to me, you know; and it is the doctor who, from the moment of diagnosis, can identify the helper couple, and orientate towards the accompanying devices – the green number, the home of the carers, etc. This awareness had its full meaning. As we have pointed out many times in the debates, health policy must be superimposed on a policy of spatial planning. It will therefore be necessary, Madam Minister, to support you with the local authorities, first and foremost the municipalities and departments, which are indispensable players in reorganising the provision of care in our country. For it is not necessarily a question of forcing professionals to come and settle in subdenses: above all, they must be encouraged to build a life with their families, a desire that will necessarily involve planning the territory to provide it with local services and transport. The construction of the health supply must also be carried out with the support of the regional health agencies, which must therefore move beyond their technical-financial approach in order to better work in concert with the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u109	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u110	If, for example, the RSA is to remain present in the process of building future CPTS – the territorial health professional communities – it must also give actors and communities some flexibility to organise themselves. The formalism of their management must not interfere with the proper medical time. It is this useful medical time that the bill wants to give doctors back by developing skills sharing. It thus tends to open up practices and encourage shared exercise. As we announced, any mechanism to release medical time currently devoted to bobology for the treatment of more serious conditions will be welcomed by our group. The digital component of the bill will allow for more efficient collection and processing of health data. They will tomorrow be essential to ensure better prevention and coordination of actors in order to improve the provision of care. Allow me to express a regret about the provisions on PADHUE: if the text will make it possible to regularise certain situations, many of them will remain on the side. At first reading, however, our group had obtained the inclusion in the regularization scheme of PADHUE practising as health professionals in hospitals, and the Senate had extended this possibility to EHPADs. We regret the return of the CMP, with the majority wishing to remove the latter possibility, which appears to be an injustice to many practitioners who have graduated abroad. Finally, as I have already had the opportunity to say, our group also regrets that the Government did not wish to co-build this text further with parliamentarians, preferring to go through the drafting of ordinances – but we know your commitments in this area, Madam Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In its final version, the draft law resulting from the discussions in the CMP presents significant advances in favour of better access to care for our citizens, even if at this stage it does not sufficiently take into account the voice of the territories. We hope, however, that this reform will succeed, and above all that our health care system will be improved. That is why our group will speak in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u111	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u112	Putting the patient back at the heart of the health system: this is the priority of the Libertés et territoires group. This requires equal access to care in all territories, but also a necessary upgrading of the health professions and a more fluid organization of the care path. It is on the basis of these criteria that we are positioning ourselves today. First of all, let us note the progress. We had come out of the first debates disappointed that we had not been able to get anything about the main challenge of the health system: that of medical desertification. Of course, the reform of health studies is in the right direction, whether it is the raising of the numerus clausus or the abolition of the national classifying tests, and these provisions have been supplemented by the introduction of a mandatory six-month course, which will take place as a priority in the areas underfunded after the last year of medical boarding school. This is a first step, we will have to continue the effort. However, the effects of these measures will only be apparent in ten years' time. The urgency of medical desertification is therefore far from being resolved. A few other developments need to be highlighted, in particular the territorial occupational health communities, so that coordinated exercise becomes the rule. We had concerns about their financing, but we see that agreement has been reached with health insurance to define their core tasks, and above all their funding modalities. However, there is still some doubt about the bureaucratic complexity involved in setting up these structures: they must not become gas plants. Finally, the automatic opening of the digital health space and the shared medical record by 2021 should facilitate the provision of care as long as interoperability will really be effective for better cooperation of practitioners, better patient monitoring and a true path of graduated care. Digital tools must increase the medical time available to foster the caregiver-care relationship. In this regard, the creation of telecare, a complement to telemedicine, will enable remote care practices to be extended to pharmacists and medical assistants. Despite these few advances, questions and disappointments remain. We are disappointed at the abolition in CMP of parliamentary representation in health authorities and at the lack of account being taken of territorial specificities in the distribution of students and doctors. As for community hospitals, one of the key elements of the bill, they arouse questions and disappointments. It will be hospitals without surgery or maternity services, a further threat to access to the care of our fellow citizens, especially those whose mobility is reduced or who live in isolated territories. Their organizational and governance arrangements will be determined by order, and their funding will be referred to the next FSLP. You are therefore asking us, Madam Minister, to validate today devices whose form and means will not be revealed until tomorrow. At first reading, you made a commitment in this House to involve all the parliamentary groups in the drafting of these orders. What about it? How long will this new classification be operational? [[Brouhaha on various benches]] Other questions remain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u113	[[Approvals on various benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, please make less noise, because it will soon be impossible to hear the speaker. Please proceed, Mrs. Dubie.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u114	I repeat: other questions remain. I am thinking in particular of the situation of practitioners with a foreign diploma outside the European Union, the PADHUE: if their conditions of recruitment have been improved, why have they excluded medical and social institutions from the eligible institutions? Such a provision creates unequal treatment between these practitioners, who nevertheless fulfil the conditions for exercise. I am also thinking of medical assistants, a category whose funding has just been secured, but whose real effectiveness in releasing medical time remains to be appreciated. In addition, can you tell us what is the status of the deployment of the 400 general practitioners in the underfunded areas, the first measure of the "my health 2022" plan, since their recruitment is already under way? In conclusion, some progress, which will take several years to bear fruit, will in no way solve the catastrophic situation of hospitals, both in budgetary terms and in terms of healthcare staff. They take us every day to witness their exhaustion and discouragement. Ensuring hospital fees and funding covering the costs: this is the subject that needs to be addressed. However, it is completely absent from your text. For all these reasons, the Libertés et territoires group will therefore abstain for the most part.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u115	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u116	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the Assembly to take a decision on the amendment before me by the Government. The minister therefore has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u117	This is simply a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u119	He's in favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u120	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendment that the House has just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u121	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 173 Number of votes cast 156 Absolute majority 79 For adoption 138 Against 18
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u122	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for the parliamentary debate during the debate on this bill, and for your vote. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I believe that our health care system urgently needs this reform, so I will be at work this July to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u124	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u125	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u126	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate to adapt the organisation of new municipalities to the diversity of territories (No. 1491, 2102).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u127	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u128	First of all, I would like to congratulate you, the rapporteur, on the very thorough work you have done since the passage of this bill in the Senate last December. I believe that this text is a fine example of parliamentary co-production between the Senate and the National Assembly, which has also benefited from the Government's natural benevolence. Indeed, this bill, originally tabled by Senator Françoise Gatel, whose commitment on the issue of new communes I welcome, has evolved very positively throughout the parliamentary debates, and in particular last week in the Law Committee. I hope that this method of co-production will serve as a model for the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, which will very shortly be presented to the Council of Ministers before being discussed as soon as the Senate and then the National Assembly come back to Parliament. So we have a balanced text here, which I hope will be able to be finally adopted by the Senate in a few days and implemented very quickly. As you know, he is very much expected by the elected representatives of the new communes, because he brings a series of pragmatic and common sense answers to different expectations or difficulties encountered on the ground. The examination of this bill also gives me the opportunity to recall the importance taken by the new municipalities since 2015. After the failure of the Marcellin scheme of 1971, the laws of 16 December 2010 and 16 March 2015 allowed a reconciliation of the municipalities on a completely voluntary basis. This volunteerism and total freedom largely explain the success of this system. As of January 1, 2019, we had nearly 750 new municipalities, with around 2500 municipalities and just over 2.4 million inhabitants. For the first time in our history, France now has less than 35,000 communes. This result was achieved without any coercive measures. In the context of the Grand National Debate, there was not a single meeting between the mayors and the President of the Republic without the new communes being hailed and honoured by the actors on the ground. This is therefore a reality that is increasingly rooted in our territories, and which is consensus. Françoise Gatel speaks of a silent revolution, others of territorial innovation: independent of these words as concepts, it is certain that our territorial landscape is undergoing a profound change that affects an ever more important part of the population. If the success of the new communes is based on a free and voluntary approach, the State will accompany the communes who want to regroup. We will do so for one reason only: the new communes remain communes like the others, and we intend to defend the communal model, which, since the French Revolution, has remained the historical republican entity of proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u130	In concrete terms, as part of the review of the original 2019 finance bill, the Government had issued a favourable opinion on an amendment to extend the overall operating grant subsidy of 5% for all new municipalities created between 2 January 2019 and 1 January 2021. I want to be clear, however, because I have sometimes heard some concerns here or there: the state will never force anyone's hand. The creation of a new commune is both an act of freedom and a decision that calls for the free administration of elected representatives and the confidence that we place in them in their choice of an optimised territorial organisation. Unlike other countries, France has not made and will not make the choice of authoritarian merger: the new communes are not there to remove the communal fact, on the contrary. In recent years, certain territories have been particularly avant-garde in terms of new communes: I am thinking in particular of the departments of the North-West of France such as Maine-et-Loire, La Manche, l'Orne, Le Calvados and L'Eure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u131	Long live Maine-et-Loire!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u132	And the Orne!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u133	Let us now go into the details of this text. First of all, several of its provisions will have very concrete effects in the coming municipal elections. I am thinking of Article 1, which deals with the composition of the municipal council. The objective is simple: to allow new municipalities, which include many municipalities but have a relatively small population, to be better represented. Currently, during the transitional period, i.e. between the first and second renewals, the municipal council is composed of a number of elected representatives corresponding to that of the higher demographic stratum. In some cases, however, the result is a considerable drop in the number of municipal councillors. Let us take the example of Livarot-Pays d'Auge, in Calvados, to convince us: 22 merged communes, a total population of 6552 inhabitants, 234 municipal councillors at the beginning of the process, compared to 33 only after the first renewal of the council. The Senate has proposed that the number of municipal councillors may, where it is more advantageous, be equivalent to one third of the elected members of the municipal council of the new municipality. In the example of Livarot-Pays-d'Auge, 78 were elected instead of 33. In the Assembly's Law Committee, you have usefully enriched these provisions by providing that this third-party rule does not apply to the outgoing municipal council, but to all the original municipal councillors. You have also introduced an overall ceiling of 69 elected members, in order to avoid plethoraic assemblies. Under this new rule, the number of municipal councillors in the new municipality of Vexin-sur-Epte, for example, would increase from 49 elected to 57, or one third of the 2014 population. This request came from the field and was made by many elected representatives. I would remind you that if we accept these provisions, it is precisely because they are transitional, in order to facilitate the application of the common law. They must therefore remain transitional in the name of necessary flexibility. Then I am thinking of Article 2 on the establishment of a college of mayors. This article has evolved considerably in the light of parliamentary debates. The original text provided for the establishment of a standing committee, which led to lengthy but justified legal debates. The Senate had chosen to replace this commission with a college of mayors with powers that could be delegated to it by the municipal council. In the Senate, I said that the parliamentary shuttle would give us time to think about another device. Mrs Rebeyrotte and Mr Rebeyrotte will present an amendment redrafting Article 2 in order to build on, strengthen and give greater visibility to the conferences of mayors. The strengthening of the conference of mayors, which would make it possible to involve all delegated mayors in the decision-making process without depriving the mayor of his own powers, is, in my view, a good balance. We will come back to that when we consider the amendments. As regards the immediate effects of the text, I am also thinking of Article 3, which deals with the completion of the municipal council. This article has the merit of securing the process of creating a new commune by preventing the resignation of a municipal councillor who would intervene between the creation order and the appointment of the mayor of the new commune from undermining the project as a whole. It also helps to prevent an isolated elected official from taking hostage a project carried by a very large majority. This is again a measure of common sense on the ground. Finally, I am thinking of Article 5 concerning the place of the delegate mayors in the protocol order of the table. This symbolic but important measure will allow the delegated mayors to appear before the deputies in the order of the table. Secondly, several provisions give more predictability to elected officials wishing to create new communes. These are first of all Articles 4a and 4b. The creation of a new municipality is not an anomalous decision: it can have consequences in terms of taxation, endowments, indebtedness, staffing, etc. Now, as the adage says, a wise man is worth two. These two articles make it mandatory to submit impact assessments before municipal councils deliberate or the public is consulted. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that Bill Engagement and Proximity will include a similar provision for changes to EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation: in this case, too, a municipality must know the consequences, for itself and for others, before engaging. Furthermore, Article 6, which deals with thresholds, provides flexibility. When creating a new municipality, thresholds laid down by law or regulation may be crossed, which sometimes implies new constraints. After consultation with the various stakeholders and an in-depth review of the provisions, the Law Committee of the National Assembly decided to limit this article to the establishment of cinematographic sites and medical-society schools and to the obligation to publish greenhouse gas emission assessments. With regard to the law on urban solidarity and renewal – SRU law – and after an exchange with the minister responsible for the city and housing Julien Denormandie, I can say that the objective originally sought in the text is satisfied. Thirdly, this bill gives new municipalities much more flexibility and allows them to organize themselves more freely, for example through articles 7 and 10 concerning the deletion of annexes of town halls and delegated communes. In so far as it does not seem appropriate to freeze the annexes of town halls or delegated communes for the duration of the term, these two articles allow the municipal council of the new commune, with the agreement of the delegate mayor and possibly the council of the delegated commune, to delete all or part of the delegated communes or annexes. I welcome this measure of flexibility and freedom. In addition, should all municipal councils necessarily take place within the central town hall? I don't believe it. That is why section 11 allows the organization of municipal councils in the annexes of delegated communes, with a condition that I mentioned in a public sitting in the Senate: that of informing the public for 15 days beforehand, because the municipal council must remain a free place, open to the public. The Law Commission has clarified this point. I would, of course, not be complete if I did not make a specific point about the communal system created by Article 4. This article clearly represents a paradigm shift, and we must be aware of this, since it allows a new municipality established at the level of its EPCI to exercise both communal and inter-communal competences. If this arrangement already exists in certain territories, in particular islands, where the municipalities do not belong to any intercommunality, it would be a novelty on the continent. We must not be afraid of territorial innovation as a matter of principle, if it meets the legitimate need of a territory and its population while, of course, defending the general interest. The shuttle between the Senate and the National Assembly and the numerous exchanges with the Government have resulted in a drafting that includes several safeguards. I'll mention two of them. The first is the protection of EPCIs: the community must not detriculate them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u135	It will therefore only be possible to form itself on the scale of an existing intercommunality, not of the former EPCIs which have been merged. Moreover, there is no provision calling into question the minimum population thresholds to constitute an intercommunality, in particular the well-known one of 15,000 inhabitants. The second safeguard lies in democratic legitimacy. This is one of the contributions of the Law Commission of the National Assembly: because it represents a structuring decision for one territory, the choice to join another EPCI or to become a community-municipality must intervene as soon as the new commune is created, and express itself very clearly. Some of you also question the implications of this, particularly in terms of calculating the overall operating staffing – DGF. The current law already allows a new municipality to exercise dual powers for a period of two years before joining another EPCI. The mechanism is then simple: the compensation allocation and the intercommunal allocation of the EPCI are frozen and perceived by the new municipality, within the flat-rate allocation of its DGF, for three years. The cases identified by the Directorate-General for Local Government have not shown any specific difficulties in this regard. Unlike the current law, the community-municipality is not intended to join another EPCI. Building on what already exists, it will therefore be necessary to build, within the framework of the Finance Bill for 2020, a long-term mechanism that avoids the potential bounty effects of over-optimization of state endowments. Several options are possible. We will have an opportunity to come back to it during the discussion of the finance law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is largely in favour of this bill, which meets the expectations of local elected officials who wish to create new communes in the best possible conditions. Beyond the discussion that we are going to have today, I hope that this text can be completed as soon as possible in order to provide readability for the forthcoming municipal elections and to enable the future elected representatives to better understand their mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u136	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u137	The bill we are considering this afternoon had been tabled by our colleague Senator d'Ille-et-Vilaine Françoise Gatel and members of the Union centriste and Les Républicains groups, and reported by Agnès Canayer, Senator of Seine-Maritime. It was adopted by the Senate on December 11, 2018. Its purpose is to accompany and encourage the development of new municipalities in our territorial organization, in order to participate in the process of modernization of the communal institution, which deserves to be strengthened and facilitated. To respond to communal fragmentation in a country that has long had more than 36,000 communes, the legislator has put in place two tools: intercommunal cooperation and consolidation in new communes. The consolidation of communes has been initiated, as the Minister said, by the Marcellin Act of 1971, which allowed the merger of communes, with a rather limited success. It is the law of 16 December 2010 on the reform of local authorities, supplemented by the law of 2015 known as Pélissard and Pires Beaune, which created the current regime of new communes, with the aim of launching a dynamic. Since 2010, 2508 communes have been grouped into 774 new communes. The phenomenon now affects all the territories, both rural and urban, but with a clear predominance for the north-western quarter of France. In my department of Maine-et-Loire, this dynamic is very strong. The success of the new communes in this territory and the success of the mergers of the new communes depend mainly on the willingness of local elected representatives and citizens to work together in the same area of life. My constituency is one example: local elected representatives, in collaboration with citizens, have been able to set up various models of democratic innovation, both in the development of territorial projects and in the installation of citizen councils, with different demographics and configurations. The population of the new municipalities thus created ranges from a few hundred to nearly 130,000 inhabitants, for example in Annecy. The vast majority of these new communes came from the merger of two or three communes, but there are also cases of up to fifteen or twenty communes. In the Maguges, on my territory, six new communes are composed of two to eleven historic communes. It is up to us to encourage this phenomenon, because the creation of a new municipality, when it responds to a local will, allows us to unite energies around structural projects and to restore its dynamism to the municipality, that level of proximity to which we are all very attached. This bill aims to remove some of the obstacles to the establishment of new municipalities by providing, where necessary, additional flexibility to their regime. The aim of Article 1e is to make the reduction in the number of municipal councillors in the new municipalities more gradual. After a merger, the city council is usually composed of the addition of all municipal councillors – sometimes 150 to 200 councillors or more. From the next renewal, this number falls, depending on the size of the municipality, from 50 to 70 %, and then returns to the common law. This poses problems of representativeness for the smaller delegated communes, which are seeing their representatives disappear. Article 1 therefore significantly increases the size of the transitional strength of the municipal council at the first renewal following the creation of the new commune. Last week, we passed an amendment in the Committee on Laws to more precisely regulate the size of this transitional workforce as it was passed by the Senate. The number of municipal councillors has thus been capped at 69, in order to combat the plethora of municipal councils. This degression is the primary demand of local elected officials. The purpose of Article 2 is to enable the municipal council, during the period following the creation of the new commune and until its first renewal, to delegate to a limited college some of its powers. The aim is to overcome the governance problems created by the establishment of a plethora of councils. We removed this article in committee, as it seemed to us to go too far in terms of delegation of powers and might exclude a large number of municipal councillors from decision-making processes. We will propose that you re-establish it in a more flexible form, that of a conference of the mayor and the mayor delegates. The purpose of this forum will be to provide them with a space for exchange and coordination. Article 4 aims to exempt a new commune from the merger of all the member communes of an intercommunality of the obligation to attach to another EPCI. By definition, the new municipality resulting from this merger has sufficient size to assume the powers normally transferred to the inter-municipal level itself, and its perimeter is already supposed to be adapted to the map of the living areas and urban units. Dispensing such a commune from the obligation to join a new intercommunality is therefore less a breach of the principle of cooperation than the recognition of the merger of communes as a result of intercommunal cooperation. Article 4 therefore seems to me to be in the right direction, and is supported by many associations of local elected representatives. In committee, we have adopted an amendment to clarify that, for the creation of such a commune, the collection of a reinforced two-thirds majority, representing two-thirds of the population. The aim is to ensure that the new municipality is informed about its non-attachment to the EPCI. Article 6 provides for the submission of certain new communes, for a period of three years following their creation, only to some of the obligations laid down by law, by reason of their size, in order to smooth the threshold effects resulting from their creation. In committee, we have excluded some obligations from the scope of these derogations. As for the other provisions of the draft law, they are essentially intended to give more flexibility to the current system of new communes, thus maintaining the proximity link with the historic communes: among other things, to give the possibility of retaining one or more delegated communes, rather than all or none; According to the same scheme, keep one or more annexed town halls rather than all or none; hold a few municipal council meetings in a delegated municipality rather than at the only seat of the new municipality. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the bill we are considering this afternoon. It is not a question of rewriting the whole system of new communes or of reforming it, but of simply facilitating its implementation and giving the necessary autonomy to mayors, mayors and municipal councillors. The new communes are not against the communes, but rather on the basis of the communal will to work together, to associate and to federate territorial plans. This bill will, I hope, receive broad agreement from you, as was the case in the law committee last week. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Before I begin the study of this text, I would like to acknowledge the co-construction work we have done with the Senate and I thank the senators, the minister and his cabinet, the text manager, the draftsman, the administrator and the staff for their investment and support. Thank you and invite you to study this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u138	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Catherine Kamowski, rapporteur of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u139	The bill to adapt the organisation of new municipalities to the diversity of territories, adopted by the Senate on December 11, 2018, aims to respond to a need for our country and territories: to facilitate the consolidation of municipalities in new municipalities and to encourage the municipalities to regroup, while ensuring the acceptability of these groupings by the inhabitants and by the elected ones. The delegation to local and regional authorities naturally took up all the articles of the draft law, because of its implications for the arrangements of the new communes and, more broadly, its potential impact on the organisation of the communal bloc. Widely enriched in its consideration by the Senate, this bill now contains fourteen articles that propose various very welcome provisions aimed at further strengthening the incentive for the creation of new communes. At this stage of the discussion, I would like to concentrate on the central provision, which is also the most delicate: the one provided for in Article 4, which aims to allow a new municipality created on the perimeter of a pre-existing inter-municipal public institution not to join a new EPCI and to constitute what is agreed to appoint a community-municipality, i.e. a municipality which itself exercises the powers which are exercised by the EPCI elsewhere, whether legal or optional. At first glance, it is difficult to judge whether the possibility for a new municipality to form a common-community is a good measure. Beyond purely technical aspects, and in particular budgetary and fiscal questions, the Community-Community raises the question of the aim pursued by the legislator in the movement for inter-communal cooperation and communal grouping which it began about ten years ago. Is the final objective of this movement to develop inter-communityism and to ensure that the municipalities co-operate with each other in an EPCI? In this case, the concept of community-community is not, in my view, a relevant object. On the contrary, if the aim of the legislator is to ensure that the powers of the communal bloc are exercised by an entity of sufficient size, then it does not matter whether the entity is an EPCI made up of communes comprising a total of 15,000 inhabitants or a new commune created on the perimeter of a former EPCI. After the hearings that I have conducted and after having discussed at length the various implications of the commune-community and its potential risks for the intercommunal fact, I have come to the conviction that the commune-community, provided it is sufficiently framed and does not lead to a reduction in the rationalisation of the organisation of the communal bloc, is a mechanism that can be approved. Indeed, the circumstances have changed. The inter-communal map is now being finalized and applied, and the possibility of establishing itself as a commune-community will, in our view, bring welcome relaxation to a provision of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – the NOTRE law – which may, in some cases, be a hindrance to the development of the new communes. While the Community-Community can be seen as a result of inter-communal cooperation, which is the ultimate degree of integration, a clear view of the financial and fiscal implications of this new object is needed. The delegation therefore requested the Government to report on the financial and fiscal consequences of such an operation. It is not a question of carrying out a study of specific cases: we would like to know the general doctrine of the State with regard to the creation of communes-communities so that local actors can make an informed decision on the financial, budgetary and therefore fiscal consequences of such a merger. As you said, minister, a wise man is worth two, a territorial community too! The sooner, three months, would be the better, minister, so that Parliament can vote, too, in an informed manner, on the 2020 Finance Bill. We have had relatively lively discussions in delegations on this subject and there is no doubt that some of my colleagues will also question you on this issue. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Apart from these remarks, which remain primarily of precaution and clarification, the members of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization welcomed this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u140	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u141	I present myself at this forum with experience, it is now a little distant, local elected, majority, and elected departmental a blow in the opposition, a blow in the majority – finally, sufficiently educated of local life for having become accustomed to the permanence of certain speeches and conclusions that I see from year to year, I can even say in my case from decade to decade, confirm itself. First of all, this way of repeating all the time that 36,000 communes is too much. All right? Why? No one ever told us why 36,000 communes were too much! I almost want to tell you that's not enough, and in a moment I'll explain myself. Then we hear from now on about territories. It has become a common word of all speeches. But the Republicans once did not pretend to represent territories! They represented populations, and this since the revolutionary origin of the commune – I'm talking about the Revolution of 1789, but in a moment I'll go back a little bit. The question of the commune has never come up other than as the possibility for people to take decisions of common general interest. I saw, therefore, progress, in the spirit of modernity, of efficiency – of course, always – and what I still know, the idea that the commune was an insufficient level and that it had to be regrouped with others: in order for there to be fewer communes, so that we could have sufficient budgets... But the question is never asked in the other direction, to know precisely why these budgets are not sufficient and what prevents one municipality from cooperating with another. When, at what time did there exist a legal mechanism prohibiting one municipality from cooperating with another? On the contrary, intercommunality was a formidable initial flexibility! It was possible to create an inter-municipal union for garbage collection on one side, with some, and to create a water union with others, depending on the watershed, etc. Therefore, by grace, let us not freeze the debate by placing on the one hand the conservatives who dream only of the past and on the other the modern ones who know how to manage the territory in a dynamic way. That's not true. There are projects that are at work long-handed, and that must be assumed for what they are, i.e. ideological projects. I do not claim to respond to a pure rationality in my choices: I respond to a concern, to an objective, to a philosophy of life in the city. Similarly, what is being put in place corresponds to a philosophy of life in the city, which you, Minister, have summarised perfectly in the National Assembly, in a single sentence that kills the game, in a way. You said: "Today we want to take another step by breaking the uniform carcan inherited from the Revolution. The President of the Republic said this himself: "We want to be tailor-made, that is to say create a right to difference. » Minister, we know well those who excite the right to be different, and we have always warned them that the right to be different always ends in the difference of rights. We have almost no exceptions to this rule and, once again, this will be the case here. Methodically, law after law, under all governments – yours is no more guilty in this field than others in the past – we have seen the defence of this right to the difference, sometimes even under the flamboyant colors of invented girondinism. Because the Gironde never called herself Gironde at the time! She was broken, that is to say, on the right. She was never a federalist, nor was she a commune. It is the Jacobins who, on the contrary, have developed communal freedoms, even to the absurd, I cannot help but say to you: decide that a law does not apply if a third of the departments oppose it, we do better as centralization! Jacobinism has often been confused with Napoleon's laws, but it has nothing to do with it! On the one hand, it is the Revolution and the intervention of the sovereign people, on the other it is the authority of the tyrant – for it must be called by its name: when one governs without assembly, it is that one is a tyrant. Methodically, therefore, we have seen in our country all that could push this right to the difference. Obviously, this right to difference leads to differences of rights, that is to say, local laws that are only the modern version of custom and tradition – all things that may be charming in certain areas, but that are abominable in terms of law. For the Revolution has introduced a novelty into history: the law is the same for all and applies in the same way to all, because we all deliberate on it. This is a big break in the country's legislative history. It's not nothing to go back on! Admit it: your project, and I do not blame you otherwise than to tell you that I do not agree with it, it is differentiation! You invented a new concept. We left-wing jacobins had invented decentralization. Decentralisation is not differentiation. It is not the same political principle that is at work in both cases. Differentiation consists in creating different local law from one place to another. And you started to do it! The Treaty of Aachen thus allowed the existence of communities. In fact, we started in this assembly to fix one for Alsace, which no longer fits fully within the framework of the one and indivisible law. Why should the law be one and indivisible? Because it is the condition of the existence of the Republic. The one and indivisible Republic is not just a matter of borders! Of course it is a matter of borders – it is wrong for those who would touch it – but it is above all a political idea. The Republic is one and indivisible because the law is one and indivisible and the only recognized community in the Republic is the legal community. We have always supported this view against all those who claimed the opposite and created Community rights. Of course, a "local law" makes it less barbaric, less obscure and less dark than a "Community law". But it's the same thing: everything that breaks the unity of the law opens up to a communalism. And all communalisms inevitably end up in the same rut, which is that of ethnoism. It consists of inventing natural local reasons for not doing the same thing as the neighbour: either because you do not speak the same language altogether, or because the customs are not the same, etc. You will never find sufficient justification for the effectiveness of joint action other than in this kind of exaltation of the difference between people. That's not a small point, minister. Of course, I could, as others will – and they will be right – look more closely at this or that gargoyle of the new mâchicoulis that was invented today. For I have noted that those who go protesting against the administrative mille-feuille are often those who reassert it, and not that a little: to one structure is added another, then another that cumulates the previous structures, or cancels them but allows them to remain... Here, of course, we have some on our behalf. But that is not what I want to talk about in the motion to reject – in the motion to refer to committee and in the general discussion, we will see. In the motion for rejection, I want to talk about the initial republican political philosophy, and tell you why we absolutely and totally reject this idea. Nor do we believe that it is a coincidence that all attempts at force passage have failed in the past. Every time we tried to regroup, we didn't do anything. But there have been episodes of the highest feudal folklore at the time of the agglomerations. I was concerned, at the time, and I saw how it was going; how, on the pretext of territorial logic, feudal lords, here socialists – I was at the moment –, there on the right, arranged between them: "Give me such a commune, that one will go there, that other one will not go there..." And the prefect, at the end, would stamp on all this, or push each other to regroup! By far, citizens were told that it was the rationality of the organization of the territory. That's not true. This has never been the case. I've never seen him before. The protest, in this case, is therefore fundamentally political. I want her to go as far as she has to go to be well understood. The communes are the foundation of French freedom. At the time when it was considered that the main wealth was the land, they enjoyed charters of all kinds, which gave freedoms to those who lived there. Initially, they were laboriously constructed. It was sometimes communal assemblies that had been granted, or rather, most often, torn off. This is for example the case of Marseille, where it all started with an assembly of trades. "Professor is a nobility," it was said. All those who practiced a trade, without even having to belong to a corporation, had the right to elect representatives. What for? To control the tax, of course. And why control the tax? To ensure that they were used. From the beginning, at the root of democracy, there is therefore the will to control the use of the common good. What I'm saying is generally true. I have just given the example of Marseille – a "trade worth nobility" – where citizenship existed as the basis of common power. But that's not true everywhere. In this regard, I would like to highlight, once again, a difference that sheds light on the rest of the story. The real cultural frontier that crosses Europe is not the border of languages, nor that of religions: it is the files of the Roman Empire. On the one hand, the city, whose memory is strong enough to irrigate the entire municipalization of Italian life and, consequently, that of France – let us agree to call France the territory of the time, around the year 1000. It is on this basis that the citizens' assemblies are re-established. But on the other side of the files, it is another model: that of the horde, of the tribe – said without any pejorative connotation. These are other traditions. There prevails the right of blood, while on our side – I include myself, Mediterranean as I am – prevails the right of the ground: "You are here, you have the right to decide; No matter who your father is, who your mother is, where they came from or who you are. Since you're here, you have an equal right to decide. » This is what was the fundamental element of republican inspiration, in the long, very long, very long time, until the great revolution, many of which episodes are somehow hidden by history. It is believed that the great revolution was a kind of spontaneous movement towards a centralization induced by the destruction of the monarchy and of the entire old regime, with its salmigondis, its tartifouillis of bailages, of seneschals and what I still know, in short, this confused organization of territory allowing all abuses and juxtaposition of all excessive powers. No, that's not it. From the founding moment of the revolution a new phenomenon emerged: what is called federations. As early as the summer of 1789, following the Great Fear – the event counts few – bourgeois militias formed themselves to resist improbable invasions of robbers that had never taken place, but which led directly to the emergence of a popular power, as it was at the time, to control what was happening. On the first 14 July, it was the Feast of the Federation: the response to a process that came from the ground, to a desire to control locally what was being done. It had to be human-sized: people had to know each other, they had to be able to recognize each other. During the revolutionary process of 1789, this assembly was regularly invaded by the sections of Paris; In fact, here we have a picture – the only one, I don't know why, which represents the Revolution – where Mr. Drouet is seen threatening the session chair of the time. We ended up believing that these were popular invasions without any basis other than what we call emotions. Not at all: they had a political foundation, the holding of the sections of Paris. The Parisian without-colotry was the assembly of those who gathered locally. So that in 1793 an attempt was made to create, in place of the republic as conceived by those who sat, a republic which would have been a federation of the communes. That is to say, the deep anchoring of this will in our history, and, let a man of my political family remind you, a revolutionary anchor. From the beginning, the will of the people to control their own destiny has passed through the revolutionary form of the commune. That's how it is. That is why we feel heirs and recuse anything that could, in one way or another, rule out this source of inspiration. Mr.Minister, we do not believe in the new formula, which now seems to include 2.4 million people. We're 65 million, I have to remind you, so it's nothing! Previously, we tried to twist our arms, it didn't give us anything. Finally, we found more subtle: reduce the funds, until, exsangue, the small communes end up going, by saying "we can't anymore, so let's see that". This was obviously not the case in the municipality of Serre-les-Sapins, in the Jura, which had difficulty spending its budget every year. A kind of green Kuwait... but, well, these cases are rare in our country. Yes, Serre-les-Sapins has a great forest, so that at the time – I don't know today – we bought a year of refrigerators for everyone, the next year, washing machines... But still, it's an extraordinary case. Elsewhere, it is the opposite: the small communes wonder how to change the pipes when they have a public water control, how to maintain their sidewalks, how to maintain the communal building. Don't tell me that's not true, that's exactly how it goes! When I learn, with surprise, that we find 150 mayors agree to close their communal school, the local elected one that I was wondering how such a thing is possible. But just phone them and ask them: it's not that they think it's much more fun to put children on a bus, it's just that they can't afford the communal building! Just the building! And that's how local elected officials can agree to shut down schools, while, like other citizens, they know perfectly well that the end of school is the beginning of the end of many other things in local life. Then it's the same: strangled people end up giving in and saying, "Since you tell us that staffing will increase by 5% if we go with the others, let's go, because otherwise, we don't know how to do it anymore. » They don't know how to do it anymore! The evidence is that 60% of mayors do not intend to represent themselves. That is to say that, gradually, the freedom that was at the origin of democracy, freedom rooted in customs, very old habits – two centuries ago these communes were created – is dying, suffocating. Of course, there are those perfect people who have committed themselves to municipal councils, regardless of their political colour: fully engaged, requisitionable night and day, at the service of their people, and who can no longer do so; who are often blamed for almost everything – when it is not on the MPs that one falls, it is on the municipal councillors! We ask them everything and anything, on any subject. It is a true apostolate and, for some, it ends up turning into a monacat. They dedicate all their lives, night and day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u142	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u143	We're a little far from the text...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u144	The argument of efficiency ends, of course, when the municipalities no longer have the means. But let's go back to the starting point and see how this freedom has been asphyxiated. That is why we are calling for rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u145	We didn't get it right...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u146	Under the guise of efficiency and good management of the territories, we forget what will be the normal consequence of these measures: the mismanagement of the populations themselves. Thirty-six thousand communes, it's not too much if they can live. Thirty-six thousand communes are good, and it is not even enough if it does not guarantee the whole population the possibility of intervening in their affairs. France was not weak because it had many communes, despite the hardships it had to overcome. Its 36,000 communes have been the means of entrenching national unity in the unity of the law. What is emerging is that by blowing up the territory, creating this right of differentiation, we will create something else. It will no longer be the same state. You have the right to be in favour of it, ladies and gentlemen, and to assume it. But hear those who tell you that they oppose it for reasons of political philosophy, in the name of their conception of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u147	The relationship to the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u148	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The right to differentiation is the end of a certain idea of the Republic. We can say it's out of date, but do you think we don't see what we're going to? We know this system. It obviously favours a certain economic model: the one that lives from the difference, and whose raison d'être it is. He thrives on these differences. You will see that we will begin with this form of difference, then we will come to differences in the application of the labour code, then to specific laws. We must not say this will not happen: if, this will happen, because it is in the genetic code of the right to differentiation! That is what is planned. On this subject, we do not agree with many of our colleagues. I am of the opinion that, when we have to see that the difference is reflected in reality, not in the will of the legislator, we must be fully aware of it and accept it, including against our own feelings and beliefs. For example, unlike you, who advocate differentiation here, I am in favour of the application of Article 74 of the Constitution to Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u149	That would be a great thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u150	I do not say it of a cheerfulness of heart because, in my view, we are one and the same national community. But I understood that when three out of four MPs are independent, when the local community is self-governing, we have to hear the message and leave, because France is not a straitjacket. France does not impose itself on its own citizens, it results from its citizens, from what they are. In this particular case, it is necessary to start from this reality. But that's not what we're talking about here, but about the communities that I think are going to be regrouped, when nothing in our history, nothing in these areas, nothing in these populations pushes such differentiation, but the will to lead them there. France as a republic, France as an idea of the unity of the population based on the unity of the law – the unity of the law arising from the fact that it is the result of the common will –, this France dissolves in differentiation. Other models exist, for example in our German neighbours, which have extremely strong Länder and local authorities. This means that this model is suitable for Germans, no doubt. I maintain that this is not appropriate for what our homeland is. And here we reach the basic level of its self-organization. These are the reasons why, in the name of soil law, in the name of the unity of the law and the organization of the territory, in a country in which no one seems aware of the importance of the changes that the administrative unit has already experienced, we are entitled to ask ourselves whether we must continue to push before ourselves discoveries and inventions without questioning the overall result. Is France truly one and indivisible with the statutes of New Caledonia and French Polynesia? The unity and indivisibility of France remain, but not those of its structures!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u151	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u152	Polynesia has a government with regal responsibilities, which have been specially assigned to it. I am telling you this to encourage reflection and to make you realize that we are not just talking about efficiency and administrative organisation. We're talking about what makes the country. If, from the year 1000 or 1200, in France, municipalities begin to form, which is not the case elsewhere...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u153	Around the parishes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u154	Of course, but the Revolution then broke with the parish. Its legislation states: "Municipalities currently in existence in every city, town, parish or community, under the title of city hall, town halls, echevinats, consulates, and generally under any title and qualification whatsoever, are abolished and abolished, and yet the municipal officers currently in service will continue their functions until they have been replaced. » Some minds in the revolutionary assembly were concerned: "What, you're going to create communes, you're going to cut the territory into small pieces? This is not at all our conception of the unity of the law! Fortunately, the Jacobins protest – it would be better to credit Mirabeau, because the Jacobins are not yet constituted. But if Mirabeau supports this communal will, it is not because he has an abstract dream of administrative organization of the territory, it is because he knows that democracy, the Republic and the Revolution are rooted in this desire for local mobilization. That was the case, the Feast of the Federation attests to it. [[Laughs]] I have little chance of convincing you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u155	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u156	What a lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u157	But I have a duty to try. It is the role of an assembly and a Parliament to speak. Fortunately, we do not all agree. That is why we are a democracy. Of course, the decision that will be made will be binding on all, but only the decision, not its content, nor the ideology it carries. This one will never be imposed, in any case, on people like me. I am not in favour of what you call girondinism, which is an invention. The President of the Republic referred to a girondin pact. I have already had the opportunity to tell him that it existed only in a bad history book that he would have read: there was never a Girondins in this country, it is an invention of the 19th century. The girondin pact does not exist: it is either the unity of the homeland, or another idea of how that homeland can function. I don't believe in a federal France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u158	But it's not in the text! Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u159	[[Ms Bénédicte Taurine and Mr Stéphane Peu applause]] I would like to think about it, but I do not want us to lead to such an organization without realizing it. I do not want us to discover that by multiplying the structures, administrative unity and unity of the law there is no longer in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u160	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u161	In my turn, I will try to convince you, Mr. President Mélenchon. I share, like the majority of parliamentarians present, your love for the commune, simply because the commune is the Republic. You forgot the big brother of the commune in the famous law of 11 November 1789 which you immediately recalled, the department. This law was quickly followed by another...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u162	The December one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u163	... in December of the same year. In three major moments in our Republic, the commune was discussed: at the end of 1789; in the Act of 1884 which seals the democratic character of the commune, at the same time as it affirms the principle of freedom; and in the Constitution of 1958, in which the commune is enshrined. To get back to the department, you were general advisor to the Essonne, a long time ago you said – you hurt yourself because it's not so true. Since your memories are quite fresh in your mind, I assure you that this text does not deny the fundamental character of the commune. On the contrary, it celebrates the commune as a republican entity of base and proximity. This text merely provides facilities for local elected representatives, democratically elected, to gather in a given territory, without any particular intervention by the State or by the legislator. I say, for being also a young mayor and a young departmental council president:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u164	[[Smile]] A long time ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u165	... the brutal intercommunality resulting from the NOTRE law has damaged the communal fact, in some respects, more than the new municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u166	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u167	The new commune is never just a gathering of communes; Of course, its creation has called for transitional measures, and we will discuss them, because four, five or six communes cannot meet overnight with a magic wand. But the new commune is the celebration of the republican commune. The commitment and proximity bill that I will be presenting to the Council of Ministers before the end of this month, which will be before you in the fall, will include measures to influence this five-, ten- or twenty-year-old movement, I don't know how to date it myself, which organized a competition in the commune. This movement, joined by intellectuals, think tanks, perhaps too liberal, parliamentarians, ministers, liked gigantism: it required large cantons, large intercommunalities, large regions. But what is immense is not necessarily part of our country's identity. I am very clear and straight in your eyes, Mr Mélenchon: the Government does not have a plan to drastically reduce the number of communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u168	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u169	From 36000 a few years ago, according to the last count, there are about 34900 communes. To return to this period at which you and I have a great interest in the late eighteenth century and the French Revolution, it is from the parishes – you are right, Mr Cordier – of the parish communities or tax parishes that we have led to 40,000 communes. So we remain in the same cleanliness. The Government does not intend to reduce the number of communes in our country. Conversely, it has the will – I imagine as a majority of Members in this Chamber – to equip the elected representatives who decide sovereignly in their territory to organize things a little differently, in particular because life in 2019 in France is not necessarily that of the last century. Then, Mr.President Mélenchon, you opened another debate, without any connection in my opinion – but I understand that you wanted to take advantage of the forum that was offered to you. It is a question of territorial differentiation. I must admit that you have put the terms of this debate. You have called for a value that is cardinal in your political identity: equality. Let me remind you that we can also be Republican by loving freedom. Both are important values that govern the organization of public authorities in our country. I do not mean in the National Assembly that freedom and equality are two potentially competing values. However, as we know very well, this subject is before us. To affirm the principle of equality as well as to better contain local desires to see a form of differentiation recognized in practice, in the daily lives of our fellow citizens, will not, in my opinion, produce the effects you expect. In your speech, you concede that in Corsica, it was necessary to differentiate and you acknowledge that you must be equally evident in the case of New Caledonia and French Polynesia. In overseas departments and regions, differentiation is increasingly common. Every bill that the National Assembly is called upon to vote on contains a title relating to its overseas application. What do you want, a road in Guyana, a French department big as Portugal, cannot be subject to the same rules as in my department of Eure! But it is not the debate we are dealing with today. This subject will find its place in the constitutional revision: a beautiful republican debate will have to be conducted on how to recognize more local freedoms, because the social body demands it. Should we say yes to everything the social body asks for? I don't know. But it's not up to you, Mr. Mélenchon, that I'm going to learn that you have to listen to the people. The people also call for an opportunity to organize themselves more freely. Like you, I don't believe in a federal organization for our country...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u170	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u171	...because I believe in the nation state. Besides, if we look closely at the history of our country, the state has preceded the nation. In short, differentiation will have to give rise to a specific debate. It is an innovation to which the President of the Republic is committed, and he is right, but it must not be applied in any way. In any event, you propose that Mrs Gatel's text be rejected, almost in turn. This is not very kind to her, because she has worked very hard to develop concrete proposals to help the mayors of the new communes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] If I haven't completely convinced you, Mr. Speaker Mélenchon, you may be able to vote against your motion of rejection, which would allow us to begin the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u172	In the explanations of vote, the floor is Mr Stéphane Peu.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u173	[[Smile]] I greatly appreciated Jean-Luc Mélenchon's explanations and pedagogy in his motion to reject and also appreciated the quality of the minister's response. That being said... the GDR Group will vote on the motion to reject. I will not take up all the arguments put forward by Jean-Luc Mélenchon, which I share. But when you say that regrouping is the result of a sovereign decision by the municipalities and their elected representatives, it is not really in line with reality. Indeed, in many cases, this decision is constrained by the financial environment: because of the declines in allocations, the municipalities are obliged to move away from it to grouping. Their choice is not always free. On the other hand, grouping can take place without involving the population. Some new communes were created by decision of the municipal council without the question being put to debate or to the vote of the inhabitants. This poses a major democratic problem. Finally, and Jean-Luc Mélenchon has explained it very well, let us not start from the principle – the minister has defended himself, but the law lends itself to it, as others who have preceded it moreover – that the 36,000 communes and the 500,000 local elected representatives are a handicap for our country. It's an asset.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u174	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u175	Let's grow him, strengthen him, but above all let's not weaken him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u177	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u178	Article 1 of the 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen, the founding text of the Revolution, states that "men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions can only be based on common utility. » From this first article, the distinction is present. It must be based on common utility, but it is at the very heart of the French Revolution. It is very often the vision of common utility that separates us, and not only in this matter. Of course, the La République en marche group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. On the one hand, we find this text opportune, since it brings improvements to the existing law and is based on the will of mayors and municipal elected representatives. On the other hand, it is a parliamentary initiative, more specifically the Senate: given the number of slots on the agenda of the assemblies to examine texts of parliamentary origin, it would be a shame not to debate them! Let us take this opportunity to create a right at the initiative of Parliament. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is, among other things, for these two important reasons, of substance and opportunity, that we will reject your motion, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u179	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u180	This text is in the right direction. I do not understand why we want to introduce ideology into the debate today, when this is a concrete question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u181	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u182	I do not believe that it is necessary to intellectualise or to theorize a process of common sense that is demanded by the field and based, I would remind you, on the volunteerism of the elected representatives who have embarked on it. First, this text was built on listening. Let us pay tribute to Françoise Gatel, author of the bill, which came from consultations and hearings, and inspired by the conclusions of the working group of the AMF – Association des mayores de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité – on the new communes. The text has been improved, it must be said, through discussions in the Senate, particularly at the initiative of its rapporteur, Agnes Canayer. Then, it was said, this bill is part of the continuation of other consensual texts that have already improved the system: the Pélissard-Pires Beaune law and the Sido law. Finally, this text is necessary for the territories already organized in new communes, and the elected representatives who have embarked on this process call for it. In the short term, at the end of the 2020 municipal renewal, the number of municipal councillors will have to be sufficient for all delegated municipalities to be represented. There is also a need to clarify the place of the delegated mayors, as proposed. It is also necessary to be able to manage resignations in the municipal councils of the new municipalities. On the other hand, Minister, I hope that we will be able to maintain the possibility of combining the functions of mayor and deputy mayor, which is essential to avoid conflicts in our territories. In the medium term, the creation of the commune-community will allow the completion of the intercommunal process, leaving time to "get back into the nails" in relation to the various thresholds. Finally, we will be able to streamline the operation of the delegated town halls, as provided for in this bill. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. We must go to the end of the examination of this text, which is indispensable for the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u183	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u184	Mr President Mélenchon, from any text and from any subject we can draw a philosophical debate, as you have just done brilliantly. However, I think you are wrong about this bill: it is not a political text; it does not question the municipality as you described it; far from coming from above, it is the result of the experience of the local elected representatives and their reflections, which it translates in an effort to improve communal life. In other words, it is the text of the arch-bouté territory on communal identity. It is, of course, a matter of adapting the communal grid to the new constraints and realities, but also to the new needs of both elected representatives and our fellow citizens. However, when opportunities are opened up and eased, security must be secured. In this case, it is necessary to do so in order not to weaken the communal edifice, and this is, of course, the object of this text and its various articles. This text must not exempt us parliamentarians and elected representatives from any sensitivity and level, national or local, to be vigilant about the preservation of both the identity of the commune and of the intercommunal fact, since the communal bloc is an element that works well in our country. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] This text will help the commune. Above all, it will help local elected officials to better live up to their mandate and to better exercise their skills for the benefit of our fellow citizens. He should be happy for you. In any case, he welcomed the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, which would therefore reject the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u185	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u186	The Socialist and Related Group will not vote on the motion to reject beforehand, which will not surprise anyone. However, I thank President Mélenchon for reminding us how Mirabeau took him over Condorcet... When you love history, it's always interesting to have a little review course, especially about this period that we all love. I recall the conditions under which President Pélissard and I, in 2015, defended the proposed law on the improvement of the regime of the new commune: this text came from the base and was intended to respond to a request from the local elected representatives. There is therefore necessarily a misunderstanding about this. I certainly don't have 30 years of tenure behind me, but I'm so immodest to think that I know a little about what I'm talking about. When we have met, on the ground, with delegated mayors who have created new communes, we know that it is necessary to bring a little more flexibility. That is precisely what this text does, and it does just that. A new municipality is a municipality, no more or less, even if it has been created. We are all attached to the commune, and I am particularly attached to it, because it is, as is usually said, the "base cell" of democratic life. The aim of this text is to strengthen it, neither more nor less. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With the famous commune-community of Article 4, we will not create anything new: we will strengthen a commune, certainly of another form, but which remains a commune. What is more, if I have understood the text correctly, we will bring a little more democracy, because we will call for universal suffrage where this has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u188	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u189	Mr Mélenchon defended the "communal cell" with, it must be said, a certain elegance. In particular, he regretted that the high number of municipalities was constantly being invoked. I can understand that the commune is being defended, but I do not see why this number should be frozen. Why should communal elected officials be refused a voluntary merger? Indeed, the entire Pélissard-Pires Beaune system relies on volunteerism. France is changing, mentalities are also changing, and elected officials sometimes find it useful to merge. Why deny them this right? Therefore, we do not agree with the arguments raised in the motion for a preliminary rejection. [[The rapporteur and Mr Stéphane Baudu applaud]] The creation of the new communes faces difficulties which need to be addressed. The authors of this text put forward solutions that we believe are relevant and expected. It does not seem appropriate to reject without any debate a bill adopted in the Senate and co-produced with the National Assembly. Therefore, the independent IDU group will not vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u190	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u191	First of all, I want to reassure you, Mr. Mélenchon. Is the current power really disruptive, considering for example the creation of the European Community of Alsace? This community is only a large department, to which neither the powers of the region nor the regulatory authority corresponding to these powers have been transferred. Had this been the case, this creation would have been truly disruptive and a source of differentiation, but we are still far from it. For my part, I hope we will go this way, but I doubt it. As for the proposed amendment of Article 74 of the Constitution, it is actually intended for Corsicans. However, I would remind you that the Corsican elected representatives are not independent, but self-governing. In other words, they feel they have to manage a number of areas themselves. For my part, I see two, which are the subject of an old request from them. First, they want to take care of their language, in order to save it from the disappearance that UNESCO – the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – has promised us. This requires a number of public policies. They want to be able to make the necessary adjustments. Secondly, they intend to create a resident status, given the considerable land pressure in Corsica: when you come from the Paris region and you have money, you can buy a property in Corsica on the coast, but when you work in tourism in Corsica, you are obliged to stay 30 or 40 kilometers in the mountains. That is the reality. I think the Corsican elected representatives are, in this area, very progressive. Then I do not share your analysis, Mr Mélenchon, because the commune is changing. In the past, people lived and worked in the commune. They traveled by bike, sometimes by train. Now, with the car, people live in one commune, work in another, sometimes quite far away, and have activities in others. It is in this that intercommunality takes on its meaning. The communes are sometimes forced to join several to have a full football team! The mentalities are changing. It therefore seems interesting to me to discuss this bill, which would provide some flexibility in the constitution of the new communes. This text seems welcome to the Libertés et Territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u192	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u193	I apologize to my Corsican colleagues, for whom I have the greatest friendship, if not affection. I don't think I've offended them by calling them independentists, but they're actually self-governing: each one is what he is and must be named by his name. On the other hand, I have no doubt about the quality of the intentions of those who voted against my motion to reject. I hear perfectly the arguments that you have put forward, ladies and gentlemen. You are convinced that this bill is in favour of communal identity. For my part, I do not think so, and I believe that we are engaged in a broader process. Mr.Minister, you acknowledged earlier that there was a problem: we have always wanted to make a big deal. That gave metropolization. The same arguments have always been put forward, in particular that of greater efficiency. But in reality, it is another way of organizing people's lives: we rationalise by concentrating the means and places to which we can access, in other words by removing annexes of all kinds which are nevertheless a vital necessity for many people. This issue is also addressed in the proposed legislation. You say that we will have the right to keep certain annexed town halls open, rather than to keep them all or to close them all. This means, however, that many of them will be closed, which will reduce the basic comfort of many people when they want to access common services. Gigantism consists not only of seeing great, it obeys a logic: it is a form of organization, rationalization and profitability of life in common. On this point, we agree, Minister. I hope that we will also find ourselves later when we talk about the right to differentiation. You say it's not the subject of the day, but it is! I understand that my opinion is not shared, but that is what we are talking about: from text to text, gradually, the law and administrative structures cease to be the same everywhere. And to refuse this is not to show a commitment to the past. I'm not talking about the past. Mr Minister, you forgot to reproach me: when I spoke of the revolutionary roots of the homeland, I did not mention the Commune of Paris, nor the other communes of the same nature that existed on the national territory. Once again, you will notice, it is the communal form that has been the form of revolution and resistance to invasion. For the Commune of Paris is first resistance to invasion, then workers' power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u194	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u195	This bill, tabled by Françoise Gatel, was passed by the Senate on December 11, 2018. Its aim is to encourage and support the development of new municipalities. As has been said, the French communes are a legacy of the Revolution. Their existence is guaranteed by the Constitution of 4 October 1958. They constitute the first level of territorial administration. The French are particularly attached to it. This was confirmed by a survey of the municipal expectations of the French, carried out by CEVIPOF in partnership with the AMF. Its results, which have just been published, reveal broad public agreement: 75% of respondents are satisfied with the results of their mayor and the municipal team. To the question: "On the future of your municipality, what solution seems to you most in line with your expectations? The French respond to 47% that it must remain as it is, keeping its current skills close to it. Only 11% said that it had to merge with neighbouring municipalities to form a new municipality. To the question: "What confidence do you give to political figures in the following positions? The French respond that they trust the mayor at 71%, the departmental councillor at 55%, the regional councillor at 49%, the MP at 40% – unfortunately! – and to the senator at 37%. The commune is therefore the first level of our representative democracy. It is the institution that preserves the link with our fellow citizens. In the area of public action for the future and development, the French expect the preservation of community services as a matter of priority; Hence the need to maintain elected officials on the ground – which we believe is not possible with the merger of new municipalities and municipalities. The legislator wants to impose absolutely the grouping of municipalities. You say that it is the will of the elected representatives, but it seems to us that it is contrary to the will of the people. This explains the creation of a financial incentive in 1971, when the Marcellin law on mergers and groupings of municipalities initiated and encouraged the consolidation and merger of municipalities. It was anticipated that the government's capital grants for operations already undertaken by the merged municipalities would be increased by 50% within five years of the merger. This law was not successful and was supplemented in 2010 by the law on the reform of local and regional authorities. As Senator Agnès Canayer points out in her report on the bill, there are several factors that explain the success of the new municipal merger mechanism. The first is the importance attached by the new municipal system to local elected officials and to the population. Except that I wonder about the place given to the latter: unless I am mistaken on my part, it is not clearly assured. A new municipality may be created at the request of all municipal councillors; two-thirds of the municipal councillors of the municipalities that are members of the same EPCI, representing more than two-thirds of its total population; the deliberative body of an EPCI; or at the initiative of a representative of the State in the department. At no time, therefore, is there any question of seeking the opinion of the public. The second factor is that by the laws of 2010 and especially 2015, the legislator managed to create a fair balance between the creation of a new full-function commune and the preservation of the identity of historic communes, thanks to the establishment of delegated communes. But for us, the latter were established when the legislator realized that the populations were attached to the commune, and that the fear of its sudden disappearance was a reason for opposition to the merger. This is therefore an adaptation. Mrs Gatel explained the real purpose of this reform. It is neither the involvement of people in the life of their communes, nor the improvement of democratic representation: according to her, "the regrouping of several communes is a way to regain room for manoeuvre and to maintain, or even develop, the supply of services to the inhabitants, despite the decline of the State's endowments. » The merger therefore does not meet the political objective of listening more to the citizens or of promoting better representation, but rather the constraints of a budgetary restriction, which results in the reduction of the State's allocations to the functioning of the communes. Let's look at the various articles. Article 1 of the Senate's bill was intended to ensure a more progressive reduction in the number of municipal councillors in the new communes. After the merger, the city council was generally composed of all municipal councillors, up to 150 or 200 councillors, which is too much to allow for effective debates in this type of commune. From the first renewal, this number falls from 50 to 70 per cent depending on the size of the municipality. At the next renewal, he returned to ordinary law. This poses a problem of representativeness for the smallest delegated municipalities, which often lose all their representatives on the municipal council of the new municipality. It is therefore proposed to significantly increase the transitional strength of the municipal council at the time of the first renewal. The Law Commission amended section 1 by limiting the number of councillors to 69. Take the example of Château-Gontier-sur-Mayenne, a new commune created in 2019. It originated from the merger of three communes with a population of 3397, 11807 and 1654. If reference is made to Annex 4 of the Ministry of the Interior indicating the number of municipal councillors by population, the number of councillors should be 75. However, according to the general code of local authorities, the new municipality with nearly 17,000 inhabitants, its municipal council will be composed of 33 elected representatives. In the long term, therefore, representation is considerably less and it is possible that one of these three municipalities no longer has a representative. In such a situation, what rule will make it possible to choose which elected officials will be removed? Will a municipality of small population be able to have no elected representatives at the time of the creation of the new municipality? Yes, according to the text of the Senate. And yet, everyone complains about the lack of interest in politics! The actions of the yellow vests, however, show that this judgment is not entirely correct; I also encourage the participants in this movement to make their voices heard in the upcoming local elections... The text also does not specify how it will be possible to leave a new municipality. How can we reduce abstention if, even at the local level, people can no longer be represented by elected officials they know and can easily meet? We believe that all these points on the issue of representativeness are insufficiently defined and require further elaboration. That is why we are proposing a referral back to committee. Let me turn to Article 4. At the meeting of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, each interpreted the text in its own way and opinions were divided. In commission of laws like that. Today, every municipality is required to belong to an EPCI, with the exception of islands with a single municipality. When a new municipality comes from the merger of all the municipalities that are members of one or more EPCIs, it is obliged to join a new EPCI within two years. Otherwise, the prefect is obliged to take the initiative. We see that there is no longer even a question of elected officials or populations: no one has a say except the prefect! According to the Association des mayores de France, between 2015 and 2017 30 new municipalities were formed on the exact perimeter of the EPCI of which they were members. All joined a new EPCI within two years. There have been no other cases since 2017. The drafters of the law considered this excessive obligation, recalling the objectives pursued by the generalisation of intercommunality and the increase to 15,000 inhabitants of the threshold of constitution of the EPCIs. Ms. Agnès Canayer justified this choice by asking why it was necessary to impose on an EPCI with own taxation resulting from this recast of the intercommunal card and which was turning into a new commune to attach to another establishment. The purpose of this article is therefore to derogate from the obligation of any municipality to belong to an EPCI, and to allow a new municipality resulting from the merger of one or more complete EPCIs not to join a new EPCI, exercising both communal and intercommunal powers. The NOTRE law obliged the municipalities to attach themselves to an EPCI. They can now become "communal-communities", joining communal and inter-communal competences. We would like to know whether there is an impact assessment of these communities, and whether any assessments have been made since the NOTRE law and the various laws that have followed for several years. A balance sheet might be useful before a further change in the territorial pattern is made. Article 7 opens the possibility of deleting part of the annexes of the town hall of the delegated municipality. This will lead to a situation comparable to that experienced by municipalities with rural schools, for which they no longer have the necessary funding, involving pragmatic non-choices which further keep citizens away from community services. I am myself elected from a rural mountain department: journeys and distance are not measured in distance, but in time. The removal of meeting places – schools, town halls and others – obliges people to manage to find ways of moving and makes their daily lives much more difficult. As in other rural departments, the population suffers from the desertification of public services, whether schools, hospitals or La Poste; It is mostly aging, and therefore needs public services and better accessibility. Older people, often alone, find it difficult to move. The closure of the annexes will force them to watch the ravens fly on their backs so as not to see misery. The remoteness of public services clearly undermines republican equality, but also democracy, as decisions are increasingly taken in bodies far from users. I will take the very specific example of water management. Three small municipalities of Ariège, in mountainous areas, Le Port, Antras and Arrien-en Bethmale, were dispossessed, against their will, of their competence for water and sanitation, while the people were perfectly satisfied with their management. These communes are faced with peculiarities related to the territory, and they are deprived of this right. They fight, with the inhabitants, to recover their water skills. What will happen when these municipalities are swallowed up in a merger and they have no elected representatives to represent their interests? This law not only dispossessses the inhabitants of their decision-making power, but it will facilitate the establishment of a management that serves them! [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] For all these reasons, this bill cannot be passed as it stands and a referral to committee is required. Our fellow citizens deserve better: it is not by voting an inabouti text, which does not place citizens at the centre of democratic life, which seeks only to save money, that we will regain their confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u196	In explanation of vote, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u197	There are excellent reasons to vote for this referral to committee. They have just been exposed and I have nothing to add that you have not already heard in my speech or in that of Benedict Taurine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u198	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u199	Mr Mélenchon referred to the adequacy of municipalities and populations. In fact, by trying to facilitate the emergence of new communes, we seek to take the problem from another end: of course, the commune is the place in which people root themselves, but history has evolved! The territorial map today is imposed on us, not only by history but also by the EPCI created in 2016: the territorial division was set aside without real observation of the evolution of the populations. New municipalities may emerge according to management criteria. But above all, the basins of life have recomposed, the populations have changed, some territories formerly distant now know the continuity of the building. The aim of this law is precisely to take into account the realities of people who have evolved, allowing them, in conjunction with their elected representatives, to regroup whenever they wish. While IBDAs allow cooperation between communities, it is true that they are often organized in the name of effectiveness. However, Article 4 offers the possibility of transforming a new municipality into a community-municipality, when it covers the entire perimeter of the EPCI. It is indeed a strengthening of the democratic level, since what was previously managed at the level of the EPCI will be observed directly by the citizens, without depending on a two-tier system as before. This bill, as we have said, emerges from the ground, but also from the very simple desire to better involve our fellow citizens in local democracy, on the scale of a renewed territory. Of course, the La République group on the move will vote against this referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u200	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u201	I take advantage of these explanations of vote on the motion for referral back to committee to mention the experience we have had, my colleague Jérôme Nury and myself, in our department of Orne. Prior to 2014, there were 525 municipalities. Since then, thirty new communes have been created, bringing together 152 delegated communes. This brings me to a number of points. First, after a few years, it must be noted that elected officials and citizens are satisfied with this situation, that they have organized themselves and that they measure its positive effects. On the other hand, we regularly call for more freedoms, more autonomy and, in short, more decentralization. The elected representatives are also asking for more latitude. The bill, which is a response to these expectations, will provide more freedom and allow the territories to adapt on a voluntary basis. Secondly, in the National Assembly, we often regret not evaluating public policies sufficiently. In this regard, our colleague Senator Françoise Gatel's bill is a fine example: Parliament should regularly take this action. The text rapporteur in the Senate, Agnes Canayer, assessed the current mechanism, from the Marcellin laws to the Pélissard-Pires Beaune law, to point out the strengths, weaknesses and to present ways of improving the terrain. This proposal, which is part of the evaluation work that we should undertake more often, should be supported. Thirdly, the Senate has already conducted a large number of hearings and has helped to improve the text. We have also worked here in the National Assembly, notably in the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, whose rapporteur Catherine Kamowski organized a trip to three new communes of Orne: Tourouvre au Perche, Rémalard en Perche and Longny les Villages. For all these reasons, the members of the LR Group consider that it is not appropriate to return to committee. They will therefore not vote on this motion for dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u203	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u204	I will be brief, because it is not useful to repeat what has just been said by previous speakers. The text aims at trusting elected officials and territories, who ask for only one thing: to be able to organize themselves in conscience, choosing what is good for them given their legislative and financial situation. The new municipalities are a positive response in this respect. In my territory, no one elected has expressed disappointment at the creation of a new commune. It certainly takes time; one must have the capacity to organize; There is also a need for more flexibility. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. Ms Taurine – who left the Chamber – spoke of the annexed town halls. The point may seem anecdotal, but it is the local elected officials who will decide whether to maintain them or not. I'm not going back to what I said before. Now we have to go fast. We need serenity to ensure that Article 1 of the draft law – to mention only this one – is implemented quickly, which will make it possible to prepare for the municipal elections, which are no longer very far away, in a calm and serene manner in the new communes. It is therefore not possible to refer the text back to committee. That is why Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote on the motion for referral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u205	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u206	The proposal for a law, which draws the threads of a previous text that has demonstrated its qualities, tends to simplify and adapt to the reality of the field. The "common-community" comes, it is true, to complicate the territorial organization, but it aims to allow a differentiation resulting from the diversity of the territory. I will not oppose differentiation and decentralization, even if my heart, like that of Hervé Saulignac, prefers the second to the first. Moreover, the minister reassured us that decisions would be taken on the basis of voluntary work and that the finance law would not be a surprise. If the text ignores the consultation of citizens, I have no doubt that we will find other legislative means to remedy this problem. Since this is a bill and its early passage is essential for it to be effective before 2020, members of the Socialist and Related Group will not vote on the motion for reference.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u207	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u208	This bill of Senate origin, which takes note of certain difficulties, has been the subject of serious work in the commission of laws. It is therefore pointless to return to this committee. We must now consider the text in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u210	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear you talking about the communes, I have the impression that you are speaking on behalf of a certain ideal. We need to look more closely at the situation: some of them have fewer than ten inhabitants, others more than 100,000. So, when a bill aims to provide more flexibility to the municipalities, which will allow them to settle down, I consider it to be in the right direction. Indeed, in some rural areas, municipalities are too small to implement certain transport policies, for example – this can only be done at the level of intercommunality or even at the higher level. I do not deny that the IBDs have some faults, as in every community. But it all depends on what we do with it. When elected officials in any community work well, we move forward. I have no position of an ideological nature in this regard. Some people sometimes claim that the centre would be virtuous, when the periphery would not be. But what is happening in the federal states? Scotland or Wales used their devolution to organize a much better health system than England, governed by Tories' conservative policy, opposed to Labour or Scottish National Party social policy. Isn't that proof that we can use differentiation for a progressive purpose?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u212	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u213	I will not go back to the brilliant statements made by the chairman of our group, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, and by our colleague, Bénédicte Taurine, although I must admit that I am in favour of a right to differentiation for the overseas territories. More specifically, I hope that this right will be exercised overseas in accordance with the principle of favour: never should the law be less protective or less generous in overseas than in Hexagon – which is the case today. I'll come back. For the time being, let me point out that, in the overseas region, characterized by insularity, differentiation is a reality. I therefore urge the Government not to hide behind pretexts. Let's talk about the mayors and the ties between them and our citizens. A recent study carried out by the CEVIPOF, the political research centre of Sciences Po, for the Association of Mayors of France reminds us of many things that it is good to keep in mind. Thus, the most important criterion for 65% of French people is honesty, just before honouring their promises, chosen by 45% of them. On the other hand, the study validates the general idea that the smaller the city, the more people are satisfied with municipal action. So when I hear macroists pretending they're "near the field," I think they're making fun of us. The elected representatives closest to the field are all the mayors of the small communes, who really spend time dealing with the problems of everyday life. These mayors are now out of breath because of your government's fault. In 2014, in the last municipal elections, 60% of outgoing mayors were re-elected. Four years later, almost 50% of them said they were ready to give up any elected office. This rate rises to 60 per cent for those who are only in their first term of office. 36 per cent of mayors said that they were facing increasing difficulties in meeting the demands of their citizens. In rural or small municipalities – under 2,000 inhabitants – mayors are concerned about reducing their room for manoeuvre and their capacity to act. They feel political and administrative dispossession. Why? Because you crush them, because you dilute the power of the communes in technocratic intercommunities in which few people trust, but also because you reduce funding to our communities everywhere. However, as I have already said, mayors are the elected representatives in which our fellow citizens have the greatest confidence. And it is this trust that you want to break, to break the state and the republic, to divide our territories and leave a growing place for private interests against public services. No one has forgotten that, on 12 July 2018, the three major associations representing local elected representatives – the Association des mayores de France et des présidents d'intercommunality, the Assemblée des départements de France et Régions de France – boycotted the National Conference of Territories. And they explained the problems that this government poses. First, communities are required to be placed under guardianship, which you make up as a "contract to control local spending." The second problem is the lack of State participation in the financing of individual solidarity allowances such as the RSA, the income from active solidarity. Thus, in Reunion, the state left a very high slate by under-funding the department. I have already said that the solution will be to cover up this debt and to recentralise the financing of solidarity allocations overseas. Local elected officials, like us, also denounce the closure of community services, after the sharp reduction in the number of jobs supported by the 2018 budget, which continued in 2019. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So we think you've done a lot of harm to our communes. I therefore call on the voters to vote against you in the next municipal elections, because you retain as your objective to reduce the means of the communes, therefore of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u214	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u215	For many years, our group has been constantly showing hostility to the development of the new communes. However, our criticism has never focused on the entity as such, which, in some respects, is part of the spirit of the communal bloc. It has focused on the philosophy of the device which, pushed to its climax, will lead to the disappearance of our communes. Our original intuition was strengthened over time as we studied the various laws that were submitted to us on the subject. And it must be admitted that it is not the bill under discussion that will deny our analysis. Following the failure of the Marcellin Act of 1971, the Act of 16 December 2010 on the reform of local authorities introduced a new system for the merger of municipalities, which was intended to be "simplified, more flexible and more incentive-oriented", giving the possibility for several municipalities to regroup into a new municipality. In the same spirit, the law of 16 March 2015 on the improvement of the system of the new commune has relaxed the provisions in force afín to facilitate the integration of the old communes, thus promoting mergers. These arrangements have enabled the new communes to achieve a much greater success than expected. As of January 1, 2018, there were 560 new municipalities throughout the metropolitan area, bringing together 1910 municipalities and 1.9 million inhabitants. Some 200 merger projects were also launched in 2019. What are the reasons for this success? In committee, the rapporteur, whose frankness and intellectual honesty I welcome, told us that the increase in the number of new communes depends primarily on economic motivations. It's an understatement! It should be recalled that various texts have introduced a derogation budgetary regime for new communes created before 1 January 2016, allowing a set of allocations to be stabilised for three years. It should also be noted that the 2018 Finance Act not only extended this financial incentive scheme for municipalities created between January 2017 and January 2019, but also raised the threshold to take advantage of the stability of the overall operating allocation for three years in new municipalities with up to 150000 inhabitants. Finally – I recall these carrots to show how much the scheme is more a constraint than an incentive – that specific advantages are provided for new municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants, bringing together all the municipalities of one or more EPCIs. In addition, an amendment to the 2019 Finance Bill, adopted after a favourable opinion by the Government, extends the increase in the overall operating allocation for all new municipalities created between January 2019 and January 2021. These are the reasons for the development of the new communes, and how could it be otherwise? With lower endowments, contracting and the disappearance, or weakening, of public services, communities are forced and forced to unite. Should we, however, rejoice in this perspective? Should we accept this fatality promised by Brussels and the Government? We don't believe that. So this text may well soften the transition to come, it does not change the case. At best, it will bring the functioning of a new municipality closer to that of the municipality; At worst, it will further blur the institutional benchmarks of our fellow citizens. It is the ambiguity of this text, worked with the Government, which knowingly brings the functioning of the new communes closer to that of the communes. The aim is to make transformations easier to accept, in what the author of the text itself describes as a "silent revolution". It is true that some elected officials involved in the creation of new communes have the illusion of believing that the old communes will continue to exist within the new commune, albeit in a somewhat special form. Nothing is more false! The promotion of new communes, such as the transformation of intercommunality, aims first of all at the abolition of the largest number of communes. The reason is simple: this government, like the previous ones and in accordance with the wishes of the European Commission, wishes to reduce the number of municipalities. Édouard Philippe himself, in his first policy speech in 2017, called on new municipalities to develop. But for what purposes? Mutualisation of resources, reduction of operating costs and so on. Each time, the same arguments are put forward to initiate these mergers and reduce the number of communes, without ever the question of the disappearance of a democratic level recognized by the citizens. This is little to say, as according to an opinion poll, almost 73% of French people say they are strongly attached to the commune, far ahead of the other local authorities, the department and the region. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] As far as we are concerned, we are in favour of cooperation between the municipalities, both voluntary and useful, which leads to a deepening of local democracy and respect for the free administration of the communes. We demand a strong commitment to the municipalities, which are rooted in our institutional heritage: they represent the oldest community level and the best identified by our fellow citizens, as well as the basic level of proximity and local democracy. We believe that the existence of more than 36,000 communes and a network of 500,000 local elected representatives throughout the country is a considerable asset for the Republic and democracy. The commune represents an essential stage of sovereignty, inherited from the French Revolution. That is why, in support of our communal model, the Communist Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u216	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u217	Our colleague Senator Françoise Gatel, whom I welcome, has taken the fortunate initiative to introduce a bill to facilitate and encourage the creation of new municipalities. The text provides for several adaptations in the areas of governance, functioning during the transitional period and the link between these municipalities and intercommunality. Let us be clear: when it comes to the creation of new communes, we continue to talk about the volunteerism of mayors and municipal teams. The aim is to facilitate the task of those who wish to move forward and create stronger municipalities, better able to provide services to the population over time. Under no circumstances is it a matter of forcing anyone: we simply want to make the initiative easier. The idea is also to take better account of the diversity of territories and situations. Thus, the text makes it possible to adapt the number of municipal councils of the new municipalities during the transitional period, so as not to discourage commitment. Article 2, which we have reworked, specifies the operation of the conference of the mayor and the mayors delegates. The draft law opens the possibility of not replacing vacant seats of municipal councillors during the term of office or of creating, in the size of an existing EPCI, a commune-community in the same territorial area. On this creation of a new tool for inter-communal cooperation provided for in Article 4, we look forward, Minister, to your vision of governance and the financial dimension. We hope that this territorial innovation will encourage local elected colleagues to turn more to the new municipality. I stress that the aim of the text is not to thoroughly review the very mechanism of the new communes, which has shown its interest. Indeed, more than 1200 new communes have been created since Jacques Pélissard, president of the AMF, proposed, in 2009, this original and voluntary form of communal grouping, translated by the 2010 law and then improved by the 2015 law. The text enshrines further improvements and aims to set the new framework before the March 2020 municipal elections, so that colleagues can prepare them in good conditions and make informed proposals. It is therefore a proposal for a law, above all a technical one, with the exception of the Commune-Communautaire, which can meet new organizational aspirations, but still within the inter-communal framework. The new commune and the commune-community are all tools that colleagues can use to build projects, work together to serve their people, strengthen local public services and support initiatives. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The bill thus represents a further step forward in facilitating this long-term dynamic and opens up a new path of cooperation, based on the voluntary work of mayors and local elected officials. The La République group is very much in favour of this. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the minister for their listening and our joint work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u218	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u219	As we begin our consideration of the bill by our colleague Françoise Gatel, whose presence in the gallery I welcome, France has 34970 communes. Despite successive laws over the last few decades, the decline in this number is relatively slow and, finally, rather weak, which signifies the French's unwavering attachment to this level of proximity, to their mayor, to their municipal elected officials, to all the answers and to the level of services they receive from those who devote themselves to their daily lives. In the run-up to the 2020 municipal elections, a very recent poll, which the major media comment on these days, shows that 75% of French people say they are satisfied with the action of their mayor. What to make all parliamentarians dream on all the benches of this assembly! The Republican Group and, more broadly, the parliamentary right and the French right are very attached to the communes. For us, this essential level of the administrative mesh of our country is emblematic of a long history, reflects the reality of a France of the territories, whose population is much more evenly distributed than in many of our western neighbours – European or not – and represents the flagship place of democratic expression. We therefore want to do everything possible to devote, preserve and strengthen the role of the communes, and to do everything possible to prevent their dismantling. The bill introduced in the Senate addresses the thorny issue of new municipalities in a rather innovative way, which I would like to welcome here. First, it excludes any coercive dimension to the creation of new municipalities. The latter can only be the result of a shared local will: the prefects will have no exceptional power under this text to force groups. This aspect is an absolute prerequisite of our support for the bill. This does not relate directly to this particular provision, but I would like to take this opportunity to stress here our total opposition, which we have often expressed, to the re-visit clause, provided for in the NOTRe law by 2021, of all intercommunal schemes, via the departmental commissions for intercommunal cooperation – CISC – and the enlarged powers of the prefects. Minister, you have made a commitment to include the repeal of this provision in the discussions of future texts, and we will be particularly vigilant on this point. Secondly, this proposal makes corrections on governance, in particular during the transitional period, but also at the time of the constitution of the new commune, the financial resources of the new community, the threshold effects often denounced by the first territories having experienced the scheme, and the practical arrangements for the continuity of the territorial existence of the commune, after the creation of the new commune, both by the possibility of holding meetings of the municipal council in the delegated town halls, but also, and above all, by the amended statute of the mayors or by the capacity given to the new communes to create and abolish delegated communes within their perimeter. All these provisions go, in our view, in the right direction, since they sanctify the power of the elected representatives of a territory to create and shape, according to the project they carry, the tool of the new commune, in order to make it best embrace the contours of its history, but also the axes of their ambition in terms of equipment, services and, quite simply, attractiveness. In doing so, it is at the communal level and to the citizens that we give the power of decision-making and organisation: we subscribe to this approach and will therefore vote for these articles. In the course of the discussion, however, we would like to see certain improvements made to the text: amendments will be defended by several of my colleagues, notably Jérôme Nury, Member of Parliament for Orne, a pioneer territory in the creation of new communes, who has a solid experience and wishes to put it at the service of a desire to improve the arrangements that we should all share. Madam rapporteur, I very much appreciated the preparatory work carried out during the hearings, and I hope that you will support these amendments. We would like to see the reflection on the development of the municipalities which wish to do so accompanied by a genuine commitment by the State, in all its extensions and for the longest possible duration. I explain to myself: there is nothing worse for a mayor, for elected officials and for a whole population than to base hopes on the regrouping of local forces with the neighbouring territory or territories, often long-time friends, to realize, after a few months or a few years, that the financing of the state is no longer there. The reasons put forward are many: the prefects consider that there is a supply of equipment of the rural territories – DETR – per year and per commune and that the new commune is in their eyes only one community; the academic directors of the national education services – DASEN – believe that the merged municipalities may have only one school; the rule stipulates that public services are present only in one point of the communal territory, etc. On the contrary, it seems to us that the virtuous and modern planning effort of a territory that would be carried out by elected officials wishing to move forward must be subject to a contract with the State, in order to guarantee a parallelism of forms. The bill does not address this issue, but Rémy Rebeyrotte and I are in the process of formalizing proposals in the report of the fact-finding mission on the commune in the new territorial organization, which we are currently drafting. Finally, the question of Article 4 and the famous community-municipality envisaged by this bill remains. The idea of starting out is obviously good, since the creation of a new municipality within the boundaries of an existing community of communes immediately, under constant law, leads to the accession of the new municipality thus constituted to a larger EPCI, which has caused immense difficulties and setbacks in many territories. I am reminded of the examples drawn from my department of Aveyron, which I will not mention, where the situation would have been very different without this constraint. In this regard, neutralizing this obligation in order to preserve the expression of a strong territorial will and the implementation of a concerted project is a good thing. It is necessary to give the elected representatives the power and the means to reach the end of their ambitions for their territories, which they are best able to gauge, apprehend and channel. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that, in my personal capacity, I am in favour of leaving these prerogatives to the elected representatives, who are obviously entitled to state their intentions in their campaign commitments, possibly to organise the forms of consultation which they consider most appropriate, rather than to complicate the schemes by imposing mandatory stages of citizen consultation on them by law. It seems to us, however, that the text, in its present form, is very inadequate on this point in many respects. First of all, and the debates in the Law Committee last week have shown this again, the legal status of the new category of territorial collectivity thus constituted is not sufficiently clear, neither in its powers nor in its coexistence with the municipalities, on the one hand, and the communities of communes, on the other. Secondly, the question of the means available to this new legal being has not found a satisfactory answer in the course of the discussions to date. To give local elected officials this perspective without telling them clearly how the allocations will be established, what coefficient of tax integration will be retained, what the tax lever could almost be called a deception on the goods! Finally, and in line with these remarks, the bill does not include any actual impact assessment; It has not been the subject of any formal advice from the Directorate-General for Local Authorities, DGCL, or the Council of State. She is, if I may say so, light on this point. We have tabled an amendment asking the Government for a detailed report, and, to make it clear, we will demand that it be accepted to vote on the text as it stands: it is the seriousness of our work that would be at stake if we did not. I have also heard and accepted your proposal, Minister, that if the text is to be adopted in its present form, it can be clarified on this point, after careful consideration by the Government, by the other texts in preparation on the local authorities that you must submit to us in the coming months. It seems to us that this proposal is such as to calm down our debates today and to allow a favourable vote for the members of the Republican Group. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, the elements on which I wanted to stress in this general discussion. My colleagues and I will have the opportunity to review the articles in detail at the time of their consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u220	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u221	This bill, put forward by Senator Françoise Gatel and which we are starting to review today, aims to ease the conditions for the creation and functioning of the new communes. I would like to pay tribute in the preamble to the work done on this text by the Senate and then by the Law Commission. Collectively and in a constructive spirit shared by the Government, parliamentarians have managed to maintain the text within the framework of its initial ambition: to correct the imperfections of an already tried and tested system, as evidenced by the creation of more than 750 new communes since the law passed by Jacques Pélissard in 2015. We can only share the intention of this text, which is based on the experience of local elected officials. Indeed, I think we are very much in favour of the view on these benches that the production of the law must be based more on the experience of the territories and that, while respecting the constitutional principles of equality, it must be able to adapt to the diversity of local needs and realities. That was largely the subject of the constitutional reform that had begun and that we will, I hope, have an opportunity to complete it in the near future. It will also be the subject of one of the aspects of the bill on engagement in local life and the proximity of public action that you will shortly be presenting to us, Minister, with several provisions in the direction of trusting local elected officials, allowing them to determine the organizations most suited to the constraints, assets and ambitions of their territories. The easing of this text has three major objectives. The first is a measure of progressivity of the law. By reducing the brutality of the decline in the number of municipal councillors in the new communal assembly, Article 1 facilitates the composition of municipal teams as they approach the electoral deadline of 2020 and their representativeness at the level of the new municipality. Let us highlight here the best framework for this transitional arrangement, decided in the Committee on Laws by adopting amendments tabled by our group and in agreement with the Association des maires de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité, amendments which specify and cap this relaxation. Let us also stress the importance attached to the rapid adoption of this provision so that the forthcoming municipal elections can be prepared in a peaceful manner. The second major provision of the text is part of a differentiation approach. Thus, Article 4 allows municipalities created from 1 April 2020 by the merger of the member municipalities of one or more EPCIs to choose not to be attached to a new EPCI. This is about the possible advent of "community-municipalities", even if this term seems inappropriate to me, because it is not a question of legally creating a new layer of community. It is necessary to take into account these very special cases where the creation of new communes would in fact lead to an unnecessary or unreasonable expansion of intercommunal boundaries, with adverse consequences for the organisation of competences in this territory and for the governance of the communal and intercommunal entities which animate it. In essence, this mechanism is in full coherence with the orientations of the future draft law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. We need to "reinvigorate" the territories so that they can draw up, as a matter of responsibility, organizations capable of carrying local public policies and meeting the needs of our fellow citizens. More broadly, we need to correct what the systematic application of our successive decentralization laws has been able to weaken in terms of the democratic vitality and efficiency of our actions. In this sense, this derogation introduced in Article 4 is a positive development of the law applied to the communities, not a revolution of the latter. Without calling into question the general principle of linking municipalities to an EPCI, it offers an additional tool to elected officials who will consider this alternative to be the most suitable for the particular situation of their territory, in particular in the case of EPCI which is very integrated and formed on relevant living areas. However, if I may, I would like to express two points of vigilance. First of all, we cannot risk, through this mechanism, weakening the intercommunal construction that has brought so much to our country. The common-intercommunal couple must remain the norm of our local organization. The recomposition of the communal landscape, with the advent of new larger communes, better equipped to implement public policies as closely as possible to our fellow citizens, must not forget the importance and the stakes involved in intercommunal cooperation for territorial vitality and solidarity. Thus we must collectively ensure that these new communes, falling within the scope of Article 4, are, in their configuration, in the maturity of their political project, in perfect capacity to assume the full and complete responsibilities that will be theirs. In this regard, I welcome the contributions of the Senate and then the Law Committee, on the proposal of the rapporteur, in line with the vision expressed by the delegation to local and regional authorities. The new wording consolidates the process of creating these specific new communes, affirming its derogatory character to the common law and insisting on the need for a very clear expression of the will of the communes to enter this system according to the two-thirds majority rule. Secondly, the financial consequences of this provision, particularly with regard to the calculation and allocation of the overall operating allocation, remain to be clarified. Although the text provides for the impact to be taken into account in the next finance law, there are still concerns about the lack of prior assessment of the impacts of what we will act on through this legislation. On this subject, our group supports the amendment which will be defended by the rapporteur of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization in favour of the Government's drafting of a report on the financial consequences of Article 4. The third strong provision of this text, which appears in Article 6, is also a measure of progressivity in the application of the law of these new communes. On this point, the work of the Law Commission to ensure that its provisions for a three-year period do not create an unjustified exception to the universality of the obligations of communities and their groupings should be commended. It leaves a reasonable flexibility in the implementation of legal obligations whose brutal application would unnecessarily complicate the first years of the new communes. As you understand, the MODEM and related groups will support the adoption of this text. We believe that the constructive work done so far does not call for amendments to be tabled at the sitting, although some of us, personally, will propose some adjustments to the margin. We support it, because it aims to give all these chances of success to the process of constitution of the new communes. We need to remove the last obstacles which can help them to function properly, keeping in mind the spirit and ambition of the scheme originally intended by Jacques Pélissard: to allow the emergence of new communes, formed by the convergence of shared stories and projects for the future. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Let us beware that our examination in session will complete the drafting of the text, with in perspective a double requirement: on the one hand, to relax without destabilising neither the communal fabric indispensable for democratic vitality, nor the dynamics of inter-communal cooperation with attractiveness and efficiency, on the other hand, to adapt without compromising the legibility of the decentralized organization of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u222	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u223	We are meeting today to consider a bill, brought by Senator Françoise Gatel, that I welcome, adopted by the Senate on December 11, 2018, to facilitate the creation of new communities. As at 31 March, 2532 communes were grouped into 775 new communes; On 1 January of this year, we had passed under the bar of the 35,000 communes. It's a fact. If I say that, it is because when in 2015, Jacques Pélissard and I passed a bill to encourage the creation of new communes, we never claimed a numerical target. It was simply a matter of drawing the consequences of the failure of the Marcellin law, but also of the new commune version 2010. The large number of communes in France is absolutely not a problem in itself. Our territorial organisation is based first on the commune, and these 35,000 communes are all houses of the people opened every week, even in the smallest communes. But when the elected representatives consider that they would do better together than alone, that their commune has long worked with the neighbouring commune and that the meeting of the two would make it possible to do better, then the legislator must facilitate this union. The new commune is a freedom, a territorial evolution based on volunteerism, and this rule must continue. In 2015, we facilitated the creation of new communes, improved the provisions governing the first years of common life, guaranteed the maintenance of a communal identity, proposed a financial pact, ensured the place of elected representatives in the institutions. There is no single model of the new commune, the reasons for launching are multiple, but doing so for strictly financial reasons is running towards a disaster programmed. The main objective must be the effectiveness of communal action and the maintenance and improvement of the supply of public services to the inhabitants. During the discussion in 2015, a single point of friction with Jacques Pélissard: the compulsory accession for the new municipality to an EPCI, with, as the case may be, more or less long deadlines. At the time, the president of the AMF was already defending the possibility for the new municipality not to join an EPCI. At the time, the communal map had not been completed and the new municipality could be a pretext for escaping intercommunality. I had opposed it then. Since then, the communal map has been completed and the question can legitimately arise. The Socialist and Related Group is in favour of the majority of the provisions of this bill, which allows for feedback on the ground and for the relaxation of the legal framework of the new communes. For example, with regard to the size of the municipal council, it is a question of returning more gradually to the common law, in order to facilitate the representation of historic communes. The departure from the principle of full municipal council during the first election of the mayor and deputies is a good thing. The smoothing of threshold effects in order to comply with the new obligations also goes in the right direction, such as the possibility of removing some annexed town halls. The main innovation of this text remains the Commune-Communauté. As I recalled, this question has already arisen in 2015. It arises again today, but in a completely different context. Indeed, the communal map has been completed and the new patterns of inter-communal cooperation have given rise to EPCIs comprising many municipalities and at least 15,000 inhabitants, except for exceptions. Therefore, if all the municipalities of an EPCI decide to regroup themselves in a single municipality, should they be forced to join an EPCI? It can be assumed that this new municipality will have sufficient size to assume the powers usually transferred to the inter-municipal level and that its perimeter is supposed to be adapted to the living pool. Why then want to impose a membership of an EPCI that will necessarily be bigger than the previous one and will keep the elected ones a little more away from the inhabitants? The opportunity offered by this bill therefore seems relevant – but I can only say it seems so, because we do not know what the financial arrangements are, and we regret it. In fact, nothing is said about the means granted to the new communes. However, this text could have provided an opportunity to look at the existing enhancements. Do they have to last? What financial rules for communities of communes, in terms of DGF and equalization? What about the FPIC, the national fund for equalization of intercommunal and communal resources, and financial potential?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u225	Many questions remain unanswered. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the minister and my colleagues to the future bill on engagement in local life and the proximity of public action, which provides for many welcome measures for small municipalities, with a threshold of 1000 inhabitants: I fear that this threshold will discourage the creation of new municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants – but we will talk about it again. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Despite these reservations, the Socialist and related group will vote for this text, because it gives even more flexibility to the new municipality's scheme, trusting local actors to decide on the most efficient organisation in their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u226	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u227	The communal level is multiple and diverse. There are 34968 communes in France, which are legally identical but, in reality, very different – and we have known up to 38076! The establishment of the new communes has made it possible to revive this territorial level by pooling forces. If this idea of grouping is not new, since it was initiated in 1971 by the so-called Marcellin law – which was not a great success – progress had to be made to move from the idea to the effectiveness. Finally, the new system of new communes, which emerged from the law Pélissard-Pires Beaune, in 2015, was a success: 775 new communes were created, bringing together nearly 2532 communes and 4 million inhabitants. This success is largely due to the fact that the new communes are born on a voluntary basis. The initiative of the local elected representatives is given a great deal of space, contrary to what would happen in the event of forced regroupings. Many elected representatives have also joined this mechanism, which enables the municipalities to restore their full vitality, a stage of proximity to public services and local democracy. That is a point on which we must remain vigilant. For municipal elected officials, the creation of a new municipality is also the way to regain room for manoeuvre, particularly financial, following the decline in State allocations since 2013. However, some pitfalls exist. Indeed, the creation movement seems a little stagnant and the distribution of the new communes on the territory is very disparate according to the regions: if they are numerous in the north-west quarter of the country – Calvados, Eure, Maine-et-Loire, Manche – there are few in the Parisian crown and the DOM, or overseas departments, very little in PACA, the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, and eighteen departments are not equipped with them. Taking into account these difficulties, a Senate information report, which emerged from the monitoring and monitoring of the implementation of the laws of the 2018 territorial reform, made several recommendations aimed at changing the regime of new communes in order to remove obstacles to their creation. This is the result of the bill, which came under Françoise Gatel of the Union centriste of the Senate and which we are discussing today. It makes it possible to reinvigorate the constitution of the new communes by offering them more facilities, for example by changing the way of governance, by introducing a more flexible transitional period, or by proposing the new communes-communities. This bill, which, as you said, Minister, is a co-production of the National Assembly and the Senate, is therefore in the right direction. While the magic formula for rationalising the smallest municipalities and avoiding territorial fragmentation has not yet been finally found, it is always appropriate to work in this direction. However, I would like to stress several points. First of all, what are the financial incentives for new municipalities that have been emerging since 1 January 2019? If the financial aspect is not to be the reason for the consolidation of the municipalities, it is indispensable in a rationalisation logic. Mr Minister, you have made some clarifications on this subject, but can we hope that the financial incentives will be sustained for the new municipalities in the years to come? In rural areas, in fact, a penny is a penny and this is a recurrent demand. Secondly, the new communes must be the subject of a global consensus – among the elected representatives, which is currently the case, but also with the population. It seems to me essential that the citizens be informed beforehand of the creation of a new commune which concerns them. I have therefore tabled amendments to ensure that the public can be consulted, but unfortunately they have been declared inadmissible. However, as a result of the great debate and in view of the unequivocal request of our fellow citizens to be more involved in the policies carried out, this debate should have taken place. This is particularly justified, because the process of merging municipalities results in significant changes, if only in the relationship that one maintains with the identity of the place where one lives. In view of these elements, I nevertheless wished to table for the public sitting amendments in the form of requests for reports, in order to relaunch the discussion. I will be able, Minister, to withdraw these amendments on the basis of what you will tell me. I say this today before the national representation, because I see some cries in my department of the Lozère, where conflicts already arise between elected representatives of the same new commune, going up to appeals to the administrative courts. In one of these cases, the population has not been informed and it contests the creation order. In a second case, a delegated municipality considers that it is ill-treated by the new municipality and asks for demerger. If this movement were to grow, the image of the new commune would be tarnished. On the other hand, one question remains: for the next elections in 2020, some delegated communes may not be represented on the lists. However, it is essential to maintain the representativeness of all the municipalities. I would like the Government to pay attention to this problem. Finally, the new status of commune-community must not give rise to new forms of complexity. The amendments to Article 4 adopted in committee are welcome on this point, in order to clarify that, unless otherwise provided, a municipality-community and its mayor have the same prerogatives and are subject to the same obligations as those which the law assigns or assigns directly to the EPCIs with own taxation and their presidents. The new communes are a form of intercommunality about which several questions arise. What will be the distribution of operating and investment expenses? Are we going to have to rethink the whole functioning of the intercommunities? Stronger municipalities are in a position to exercise their own powers, which elsewhere are transferred to the inter-municipal level. What about the DGF of these new structures? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] In conclusion, our independent IDU Group will vote for this text, which contains welcome adjustments, while hoping to obtain some answers on the problems I have just raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u228	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u229	The French are attached to the commune, which is the place of local democracy, and the mayors are among the most appreciated politicians of their fellow citizens. The disappearance of the communes is therefore not on the agenda. However, developments are under way, which are largely the result of necessities, with the widening of the displacements of life. The municipality is no longer the alpha and the omega: some people can live in one municipality and work in another, or practice sports or cultural activities there. Space has expanded somewhat. With nearly 35,000 municipalities, metropolitan France alone accounts for one third of the number of municipalities in the European Union – and that is neither good nor bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u230	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u231	This results in a large number of municipalities with limited resources. In fact, more than 90% of the municipalities have fewer than 5000 inhabitants and the average population of a French municipality is 1750, compared with 4100 for the rest of Europe. Many difficulties then arise for the smallest of them, who do not have sufficient resources to meet the demand for public action and the expectations of their inhabitants. For example, in the field of rural public transport, low densities are an obstacle to the establishment of frequent and efficient transport, which must be considered rather on an intercommunal scale or even on a larger scale. Some mayors of small communes complain that they do not have the means of their policies and that they can only act through intercommunality. In fact, the office of mayor of a small commune is a priesthood or even an apostolate. The task can even be very difficult when it comes to announcing to parents the death of a young person on the roads – because it is the mayor who sticks to it, and I do not wish that to anyone. The mayors and their council are therefore heavily involved in their duties, and it is important to reiterate that the majority of municipal councillors receive no compensation and work for the community free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u233	Our European neighbours have had the same questions and, from the 1960s onwards, have begun a movement to reduce the number of communes, which has often taken an authoritarian turn and, in some countries, has taken a spectacular turn. Between 1950 and 2007, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Germany reduced the number of their municipalities by 87%, 79%, 75% and 41% respectively. In France, on the other hand, this reduction was only 3% over the same period. It is true that we have made different choices and we have preferred the silent – or almost – revolution from intercommunality to that, which would have been much louder, from the authoritarian merger of municipalities by law, an option chosen by Germany, Sweden and many other countries. Perhaps it is not even worse for the peace of households. It is in this context that the creation of new communes, which consist of a grouping of several communes, has taken place. There are more than 750 municipalities, with nearly 2,500 former municipalities and 2.4 million inhabitants. It's modest, but it's a reality. This phenomenon is sometimes a source of fear, some fearing the dissolution of the identity of the historic commune, the need to submit to new obligations which may change the shape of their territory or the loss of jobs and services in some municipalities. Thus, the legislator had taken note of the failure of the administrative process of grouping communes established by the Marcellin Act of 16 July 1971 and had replaced it with a system based on volunteerism. The latter, however, could only be implemented through a complex process, at the initiative of the municipalities, with compulsory consultation of the voters, by an absolute majority of the votes cast corresponding to at least one quarter of the voters registered in all the municipalities concerned. It's still a lot! However, a municipality could not be forced to merge if two thirds of the votes cast, representing at least half of the registered population, had opposed the merger. It is quick to understand why this type of procedure, which is reminiscent of the referendum organised on the single community of Alsace in 2013 or the right of option provided for in the law on the division of regions, does not work. When you don't want something to happen, you start administrative procedures that make it impossible. The bill before us makes it possible to relax the rules governing the constitution of the new communes and therefore goes in the right direction. I note, however, the extreme precaution taken not to overshadowed the communal map: I am astonished that we still refuse to consider a threshold and that we allow municipalities that have twenty, thirty or forty inhabitants, and sometimes less than ten, to continue. This is beyond reasonableness, and I can't help but note that we didn't get the same attention when it came to merging regions that didn't ask for it into mega-regions...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u235	... which many of our colleagues, including those who voted for this measure, believe we could have abstained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u236	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u237	Attention, therefore, to what we do: we must respect our territories. In the context of the rise in the power of intercommunities, the municipalities must be given the opportunity to follow this ascending slope, and even to obtain this status as a commune-community. Indeed, many rural communes, fearing being dispossessed of any means of action, could come together to create new communes. In this context, what about financial incentives? Minister, we have been a number of speakers asking for clarification on this point. This text also provides for the creation of the municipalities-communities, resulting from the merger of all the municipalities of an EPCI, which would have the powers both of the municipality and of the EPCI. It may be thought that this type of organization would be of interest to some rural communities by allowing them to share services and be more effective. But with the large EPCIs that the majority of the country now has, such a provision will have concrete opportunities only at the margin. Indeed, the NOTRE law, sometimes applied with great zeal by some prefects, has led to the forced constitution of EPCI with own taxation whose population far exceeds the legal threshold of 15,000 inhabitants, including in rural areas. Thus, in the Côtes-d'Armor, which has 600,000 inhabitants, there are only eight intercommunalities left, with an average of 75,000 inhabitants. We are far from the threshold of 15,000 people! How can we imagine merging all these communes into one? That seems totally impossible. It should also be noted that with the new communes-communities, an election by direct universal suffrage will be held within the perimeter of certain intercommunalities, when for others it will always be indirect suffrage by arrow. This suggests a good debate about the democratic progress that would be achieved by extending direct universal suffrage to all the inter-communities, while they are increasing in power, with sometimes very large budgets, real services to the population and genuine democratic choices. With regard to another subject that is of great interest to me, I would like to point out once again that the legislation in force does not allow all problematic cases, such as intercommunal cases, to be settled in several departments or regions. This question arises very concretely for the community of communes of the Pays de Redon, riding on the Ille-et-Vilaine, the Morbihan and the Loire-Atlantique, three departments and two regions, Brittany and the Pays de la Loire. We had tabled an amendment to facilitate the formation of new interdepartmental or interregional communes without the old communes having to change departments or regions, which are too restrictive for elected representatives and the population. Thus, the delegated communes should be able to be recognised as electoral sections belonging to each of their initial departments in order to express and collect the votes of each electoral section for the departmental, regional, legislative and European elections and also to appoint delegates for the senatorial elections. I am defending this proposal now because my amendment was declared inadmissible under Article 40 of the Constitution for the creation of office, when I had been able to defend it twice during the last parliamentary term. I regret that this issue cannot be discussed in the interest of the people concerned. However, another solution would resolve this very particular case. It consists of linking the Loire-Atlantique, the Breton department, to the Brittany region, and therefore to satisfy this historic region, which needs only to be reunited. Thus all the inhabitants of the new communes would be at least the inhabitants of the same region. Finally, we regret that the prefects still have significant power in the process of creating the new communes. We believe that for such a project, resulting from the common will of the actors of the territory, priority must be given to the will of the elected representatives and the populations of the communes concerned and not to the representative of the State. That is the meaning of some of the amendments that we tabled in connection with the study of this text at the sitting. Moreover, I cannot be satisfied with the consequences of the merger of municipalities in terms of toponymy. We have seen in Brittany, for example, that new names invented by the new commune have lost any reference to the unique identity of the original communes, which is a loss of heritage. The protection of heritage, particularly cultural and intangible heritage, and the preservation of its identity as part of the compulsory competences of the Regional Council, we propose that it can support the communes in the search for a name that does not ignore history. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, this bill will, in our view, be limited in scope. However, we hope to be contradicted, particularly in the context of the revision of certain too wide intercommunal perimeters. However, it is welcome to relax the merger procedure between municipalities and contains incentives. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Pierre Morel-À-L的Ouissier also applauds]] The Libertés et Territoires Group will therefore vote in favour of this bill, which, hopefully, will be fully understood by the local elected representatives to enable them in the future to act with more means and freedom in the logic of differentiation that is dear to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u238	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u239	On August 20, 1790, Louis XVI was already promoting the consolidation of communes by explaining: "It is in the spirit of the National Assembly to favor these meetings and the administrative bodies must strive to provoke them and multiply them by all means in their power. » Thus the new municipality is part of a constant legislative process, which began in 1790. With this in mind, the present bill to adapt the organisation of the new municipalities to the diversity of the territories, adopted by the Senate on 11 December, provides for the facilitation of the consolidation of municipalities in new municipalities and encourages the municipalities to come together, while subjecting these mergers to the acceptance of both citizens and elected representatives. Indeed, France's territorial organization is unique in its very large number of communes. Building on this historical heritage, the commune remains a reference institution for French and French people and arouses a genuine attachment on their part. The great national debate, held in our country from January to April 2019 and to which you took all your part, Minister, came to recall, if necessary, this commitment. The commune is both a place of memory and of producing identity, but also the basic unit of our democracy and the stage of "living together". Our fellow citizens are attached to their commune and their mayor. In his report entitled Living Together, published in 1976, did Olivier Guichard not state that it is in the commune that one is a citizen? However, it has to be noted that when it comes to dealing with communal communities, it is agreed to speak of "communal nanism". 90 per cent of the municipalities have fewer than 2000 inhabitants; 93.9% have fewer than 5000 inhabitants and only 5% exceed the 10,000 population threshold. This communal fragmentation may lead to difficulties for small municipalities which cannot afford to bear the costs of exercising some of their skills or necessarily the ability to provide quality public services. In this context, and in order to respond to these difficulties, the legislator has, over the years, allowed the grouping of municipalities and inter-communal cooperation. The current regime of the new communes, which succeeded that of the so-called Marcellin Act of 16 July 1971, was created by the Act of 16 December 2010 on the reform of local authorities, and was amended by the Act of 16 March 2015 on the improvement of the system of the new commune, known as the Pélissard Act. These new provisions of 2015 were very successful, since on 1 January 2019, France had more than 750 new communes throughout the national territory, bringing together nearly 2500 communes and 2.4 million inhabitants. The new municipality is therefore a response to revitalise the municipality, a locality. Thus, this bill is not intended to thoroughly review the arrangements of the new communes, but rather to offer opportunities to the communes who wish to regroup themselves by a voluntary process, with the aim of bringing a new ambition to their territory. It therefore helps to accompany and encourage mergers of municipalities, seeking to reduce the consequences of mergers for the municipalities concerned and to ensure a longer and more favourable transition period for the merged municipalities. Without going into the details of the articles of this bill, however, I would like to refer to the central provision: section 4. It makes it possible to exempt a new municipality, resulting from the merger of all the municipalities which are members of one or more public institutions for intercommunal cooperation with own taxation, from the obligation to attach themselves to another EPCI. These municipalities of tomorrow, called communes-communities, will have all the prerogatives directly attributed by law to such an institution. The Community-Community, which responds to new organizational aspirations, can be seen as a result of inter-communal cooperation, "the ultimate degree of integration", as Mrs Kamowski points out in her information report. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress that the creation of a new commune is an opportunity for local elected representatives and under no circumstances an obligation. This bill does not oblige or coerce. This is an act of freedom and a decision under the free administration of the communities. In conclusion, this bill is guided by two clear objectives: the adaptation to the territories and the flexibility that meets the expectations of local elected officials who want to create new communes in complete freedom under optimal conditions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore respectfully count on your votes, ladies and gentlemen, to make this text a reality for our territory and to "do better together".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u240	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u241	I will make three observations on this bill. First, the communal movement goes back to the neolithic, in any case in the 10th or 11th century. The commune is an expression of the need to join forces to manage common interests in a coherent way. It corresponds to the deep nature of humanity. It does not result from an administrative division, unlike the departments or, to cite a more recent example, the regions. It is above all a community of life, a history between women and men and a territory. The municipality has a heritage dimension and a democratic identity in essence different from any other administrative entity. It therefore requires that the devices intended for it be designed with care and taking into account the fact that, before being an administrative structure, it represents a place of life. The so-called Marcellin Act of 16 July 1971, which created a trauma by providing for an authoritarian grouping of municipalities, was a failure because it ignored this reality. Since then, the laws of 2010 and especially of 16 March 2015 have offered interesting prospects for municipalities wishing to regroup. It is now within the framework of a voluntary approach, to go to the end of the logics of mutualization or to overcome the territorial divides, while preserving the proximity, history and identity of the founding communes, that this path is open to the communities. For them, such a rapprochement is obvious. In a context where people see the territorial divide getting worse, schools closing and public services moving away or dematerializing, we need to see this text not as a technocratic approach but as a guarantee of obtaining more local public services, with a higher quality of service. It is in the light of this requirement that I believe we must legislate. Secondly, the creation of the municipality-community, which replaces the existing EPCI, is an interesting configuration hypothesis. However, it adds complexity to a system of territorial organization which, as a whole, is not simple. Of course, there is no need to know the Archimedes principle to swim, but let us still keep in mind the necessary legibility of the devices we decide. On this point, improvements and clarifications must be made regarding the community. Moreover, the special status of the metropolis of Lyon, the president of the Committee on Laws, has just been corrected, for example, because of a serious legal gap, since the community councillors were excluded from voting power for the senatorial elections. Gravity! Thus, even the most competent administration is lost in its complex paths, let us not forget. As far as volunteering is concerned, let us ensure that the financial arrangements do not betray this beautiful idea by draining the own resources of the municipalities and by proposing in case of pooling financial advantages such as many elected officials could only accept them. You must reassure us on this point, minister. But we cannot say that we love the communes and at the same time organize their disappearance – if I believe the comments made earlier by Stéphane Peu. Thirdly, the citizen must be at the heart of our concerns – many Members have raised this point in the rostrum. The issues of existence, disappearance or grouping of communes must be addressed with the citizens, who are the members of this community of life that is being proposed for change. The first guarantee of success of a new municipality is undoubtedly a appropriation of the project by the inhabitants directly concerned. To speak like Tocqueville, the commune is to democracy what the school is to science. On the subject before us, citizen consultation, a legislative measure enshrined in the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities in 2010, is only necessary in the event of disagreement between the municipalities. I find it regrettable, from the point of view of local democracy, that this consultation is not further encouraged by the law. It is not a question of increasing the procedure, nor of making this consultation and its outcome imperative, but of giving keys to success to local elected officials. This success, I speak of experience, lies in the discussion with the population. Article 40 has prevented us from tabling amendments in this respect. In general, therefore, it is impossible for a parliamentarian to propose a mechanism for consulting voters, whatever the subject. However, it is a question of local democracy, and we are the first to feel the need for it on the ground. As national elected officials, we must also be the first to guarantee their effectiveness. In a context where democratic demands are growing, Article 40 seems to be obsolete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u242	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u243	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u244	First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative of Senator Françoise Gatel, who, supported by several of her colleagues, has put in place concrete and indispensable proposals to unlock the various obstacles that are likely to obstruct the promise offered by the new communes in our territorial landscape. What is this promise? The new commune is the promise of non-infringement of the free administration of local authorities, as the consolidation of several municipalities remains at the initiative of local elected representatives and the population. The new commune is the promise of maintaining a local and historical identity of the communes thanks to the establishment, in 2010, of delegated communes. The new municipality is the promise of more skills and resources, as this community has additional room for manoeuvre to maintain, or even develop, an offer of services to the inhabitants. In short, the model proposed by the new municipality is a success. It should be stressed that, in this respect, we recognize that the previous laws have not had the same success. The new municipality is a success because it has managed to integrate and legitimize itself in a decentralised network, which is often subject to remodelled or even recast legislation. In view of this success and its contributions, it seems necessary to perpetuate its role in the transformation of our local landscape. To that end, the drafters of the law wanted to break the last locks that could stop these local initiatives and prevent the transition to the common law. I think, and I am sure that the rapporteur will agree, that this text, by its very philosophy, is intended to reassure local elected representatives. Indeed, and we must not hide it, there are still concerns, which can hinder the birth of a new municipality in a territory that needs it. To those of our colleagues who have been able to find this very technical bill, I would like to make it clear that it does not in any way constitute a sum of marginal corrections, but rather the act of confirmation of the new municipality in our country. As proof that its new provisions are essential and legitimate, it is supported by the Minister responsible for local authorities, the Association of Mayors of France, the Assemblée des communautés de France or the Association des petits villes de France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u245	Everyone agrees, it deserves to be stressed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u246	I will take two measures, on which I have worked with the rapporteur and my colleague Rémy Rebeyrotte, whom I thank. The first, in Article 1, relates to the increase of the transitional staff of the municipal council of the new communes. The AMF had alerted us to the earlier version of the text, which did not avoid the risk that some new communes would have, in 2020, a municipal council composed of 73, 79, or even 83 elected. Such a situation would have been embarrassing, since these plethora of municipal councils would then have exceeded those of municipalities with a population greater than or equal to 300,000 inhabitants. The Law Commission responded to AMF's concerns by retaining its proposal to limit the number of municipal councillors to 69 in the new municipalities. You will note the consistency of this figure, which corresponds to the population of the most populated communes, i.e. whose number of inhabitants is greater than or equal to 300,000. The second measure, in Article 11, concerns meetings of municipal councils. Although the original version of the text echoed many requests for better integration of the old communes into the new one, the minister rightly pointed out, when examining the text in the Senate, that this mechanism should be accompanied by better information. In addition, this text constituted an involuntary breach of article L. 2121-18 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, according to which the meetings of municipal councils are public. In the absence of effective publicity measures to inform the public of the holding of a meeting of the municipal council in another place, the proceedings would have been subject to litigation on the grounds that the municipal council was able to meet in an unusual place so that the public would not attend. The Law Commission has therefore specified, on the one hand, that municipal councils may be relocated to any delegated municipality, provided that at least two meetings of the municipal council per year are held at the town hall of the new municipality, and, on the other hand, that the municipality must provide for publicity obligations on such relocations, so that the inhabitants can be informed of them. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Ultimately, this bill, which is the result of upstream work and the expertise provided by the legislator, is, as I have said, an imperative, serious, timely and appropriate legislative framework in line with the expectations and needs of local elected officials and their officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u247	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u248	I will come back to a few points, which may allow me, Madam chairman of the committee, to go a little faster when considering the amendments. I want to clarify what is our doctrine and our reading grid on this text. Mr Ratenon, who has left the Chamber, has mixed things up by referring to the presence of public services, both local authorities and the State. I do not go back to the answers given to President Mélenchon and to the deputy Taurine – who also had to be absent, but apologized before returning to represent the group La France insoumée – that the bill does not in any way call into question what the commune represents in the history of the Republic. We must repeat this again, and not let our fellow citizens or local elected officials be told that, in one way or another, we would be ill-advised to question a well-proven republican model. A number of opinions of the Government, Mr Molac, will be motivated by our desire not to break completely with a republican tradition which, in fact, dates from the laws of 11 November 1789 and December 1789: I will return to it in a moment. Mr. Little, who also left us, referred to the 5% increase in DGF in terms that I believe deserve to be stopped for a short time. Basically, I have already heard, on the ground, or read in the regional daily press, that this enhancement would be a bit of a carrot, compared to what, on the other hand, would be the stick – Mrs Untermaier said, but in a different tone, which I would like to greet. Forgive me, but if this increase is the carrot, it means that the local elected representatives who are launching themselves into the creation of a new commune are donkeys! That's not the case. Local elected officials embarking on such an operation do so in order to draw up new spatial planning or to reflect its geography in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u249	The carrot isn't enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u250	The Normans are present in numbers in this Chamber, as in the stands, and this leads me to observe that the phenomenon I have just spoken of is very marked geographically: it is observed very much in Normandy or in Brittany, in short, in the Great West. I am not saying that it is not being observed elsewhere, but the statistics show that something has happened in these territories, for reasons that are related either to the history of local freedoms or intercommunality, or to a generation of elected officials who have embarked on an operation that, in their eyes, could bear fruit. In any case, that is what I was able to observe in my department of the Eure: the enhancement of the DGF was in no way the central argument. What, moreover, is the reason for this increase? The question was asked by Ms Untermaier and Mr Morel-À-L'Huissier, who also went away.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u251	He's coming back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u252	The increase is therefore due to the fact that the merger act can generate a few costs, quite simply. Any merger, any mutualization, those who have been elected local know this well, generates savings in the future, but sometimes also costs in the immediate future. The municipalities, which then need financial and legal support, are assisted in engineering, which may be lacking those which are rural and small. The State services are doing their utmost to assist them, with the local authorities' directorate-general providing support to the prefectural corps for this purpose. In short, the 5% bonus of DGF is a help, but in no case the motive of marriage. [[Smile]] On the commune-community, Mr.Rebeyrotte – others have mentioned it, but you were the first to do so – you give me the opportunity to try to explain what Mrs.Gatel here, and of which you have understood that she is the star of the evening, imagined in her bill – and I say it under the benevolent eye of Senator Agnès Canayer, who is also Norman. The community-community, I said, is not a community – Senator Gatel, I think, will not blame me for saying so. If we reason in law, and this also responds to the question of MP Viala, the commune-community is above all a commune! You point to a certain legal vagueness, but the law that will apply in this case is first and foremost that of the communes. I am against the case of the island communes, such as the island of Sein, for which the legislator has already made the attachment to an EPCI optional – in fact, an obligation in this area would have had no logic. What happened to these territories? They remain communes, which, as such, exercise all the powers entrusted to the communal bloc – of which, we will never repeat enough, the intercommunalities. On the FPIC, Mrs Pires-Beaune, the community will therefore have no particular impact: the calculation will be exactly the same as for any municipality. The real question, which I was talking about in the presentation of the text, concerns the allocation of intercommunality and the allocation of compensation, since the Community-Community is precisely not an EPCI. Of this, we will debate again in the context of the finance bill, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate. The innovation that we are talking about, I think it is useful to recall, certainly makes a lot of ink, because France loves legal and territorial innovations, but it is perhaps more timid than it looks, since there are already reference frameworks. For some time now, we have been talking about section 4 of the bill, but none of you, by the way, have mentioned any concrete example in its territory. As Senator Gatel suggests, innovation is to give elected officials the opportunity to create a new commune without forcing them to join a larger EPCI: this is, I believe, the spirit in which honourable senators have imagined this provision that should not be given visibility that it does not deserve, as it is common sense. It avoids the exponential effect of the "XXL", which condemns certain communes, for reasons of territorial division, to join a larger EPCI. The scheme envisaged is of common sense and, as we shall see, it will probably be used less often than some people imagine. Thank you, Mr Viala, for your comments on the role of the prefect in relation to the new communes. Nothing will be decided which can question the free consent of the local elected representatives: this will again be one of the driving threads of our debates this evening. There will be a common new place where there is a local will. To look closely at it, moreover, no new commune in our country is the result of any prefectural instruction. I would also refer you, on this point, to the general code of local authorities: even if it came to the prefect's idea of making the process mandatory, Mr Morel-à-L'Huissier, he would be legally obliged, in this case, to consult the public. In short, let us have no fear as to the role of the prefect: we will return there a moment ago, the prefect is there to represent the state, but also to defend the general interest and, forgive me, to remind him, to enforce the law that you are voting for. Of course, we were able to be scalded by the application in the territories of the NOTRE law – Molac mentioned in this regard some prefects who imposed the creation, on a forced march, of EPCI "XXL". But, to talk about a department I know, the Eure, I also knew local elected officials who wanted to make their intercommunality grow ever more – Mrs.Claire O'Petit, present here, could also testify to this. The desire for expansion was therefore not always due to the prefect. Some of my colleagues in the Eure may have had some appetite, and thought that they would do better than their neighbor if they were bigger or as big as him. Sometimes things have also been done in a hurry in the departmental committee on inter-communal cooperation, without anticipating the real impact of choice on the tax integration coefficient or on the evolution of the DGF. It must be seen that when you leave a community of communes that are potentially "poorer" to reach a community of potentially "richer" agglomerations, you see its DGF evolve. It is not the fault of the deputies, the senators or the Government: it is the application of the law as it has existed for thirty years, with the criteria for the allocation of the DGF defined by the local finance committee and by the Parliament. It is true that if the elected representatives had been warned, it would have been otherwise. Mr Viala, you have also referred to the departmental schemes for inter-municipal cooperation provided for by the NOTRE Act, which must be revised by 2022. I confirm that the Bill Commitment and Proximity that I will be presenting to the Council of Ministers in a few days will propose to parliamentarians that this provision be deleted in order to avoid another big night in the overall inter-municipal scheme. I believe that the elected representatives are demanding this stability. As far as the community-municipalities are concerned, you went far, about the DGF, talking about "deceived goods". I just answered you. Look at the case of the island of Sein! As part of the finance bill, I will propose that you stick to what already exists. I repeat, some new communes will not be affiliated with any EPCI. I recognize that this makes us funny because, for years, all municipalities have been forced to join an EPCI. But on this subject, Mrs Pires Beaune, who has left but I hope will return to us, was right to recall that the intercommunal map has changed and that we are no longer in 2015. The obligation to join an EPCI is now less acute than in the past. We can therefore tolerate the novelty of the common-community. You see, MP Viala, that there is no impact assessment by the Council of State or the Directorate-General for Local Authorities – DGCL. And because we're dealing with a bill! If you had had to look at a bill drafted by the Government, an impact assessment would of course have been provided to you. In any case, you will have an impact assessment for the Engagement and Proximity bill, that goes without saying. I believe that your group, the Republicans, like others, has tabled an amendment to have the Government submit a report. I am not in principle in favour of all the reports, because the DGCL is likely to spend more time making reports, which Parliament could write by seizing itself, than to be operational. Having said that, in this case, I would be in favour of an evaluation if this is done within a reasonable period of time. Mr Stéphane Baudu, you have rigorously described the spirit of the text and the progress made by parliamentarians, particularly in the Committee on Laws. Thank you for your very clear words. His colleagues would like to convey my thanks to Mrs Pires Beaune for the initial work done with Mr Jacques Pélissard, also mentioned by Mr Baudu. I have already replied to him about the communes-communities and the FPIC. She highlighted the difficulty that could be posed by the 1,000-population threshold for all provisions of the Engagement and Proximity Bill, which were expected by local elected officials. Can this threshold become a deterrent for all new municipalities? I understand this inquiry, especially since the two rapporteurs have already raised the subject with me. I would like to inform you that when the bill comes to committee or sitting, I will be open to reflection on another threshold. This bill has not yet been presented to the Council of Ministers, but I am already giving a figure: perhaps the threshold of 3500 inhabitants would allow it to be at the level of what is also found in the general code of local authorities. Mr Pierre Morel-À-L'Huissier, I replied to you about the sustainability of financial aid, referring to their philosophy. As long as I am in charge of this matter, I will continue to deal with it in the context of the finance bill. This is a state support measure which allows a number of expenditure to be absorbed. You mentioned the consultation of the populations. As Mrs Untermaier said, I believe that we must focus on avoiding two extreme situations. That must be my Norman side: I'm trying to find a middle way! An extreme is for two municipalities to merge in the utmost discretion: two municipal councils agree, allowing the population, the MP and the prefect to discover the information in the newspaper a week later. I, who have organized the great national debate, cannot say that this is really in line with what needs to be done. The other extreme would be to explain that municipal councils could not make such a decision without having to consult the public. I say it as I think it is: let us be careful about the beginning of questioning what representative democracy is at the local level!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u253	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u254	Indeed, if we begin to consider that the merger of two municipalities is too serious a decision for municipal councils to decide on their own, it means that the decision is referred either upwards, to the prefect, or downwards, to a form of local referendum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u255	I talked about information, not consultation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u256	Yes, but you can see where this can end! We start with something, and we get to something very quickly: isn't investment in the commune's schools an important subject enough for us to organise a consultation? And after all, what you are going to say tonight is not an important enough problem for the National Assembly not to decide alone and for a referendum to be held in the country? I am willing to go far with this example to illustrate my point. Even if the mayor remains the favourite figure of the French, let us not pay for words: there is also a question of representative democracy, as we saw last autumn. If, together with the President of the Republic, we wanted to rely on the mayors for the great national debate, it was certainly that we needed them to succeed, but it was also to put them back at the heart of the local democratic machinery. You are therefore right to denounce the opacity of decision-making, but on the other hand, I am not in favour of systematically relying on a consultation which would call for a vote. We must imagine a larger information that would be mandatory. It seems to me that most of the elected representatives are already making progress in this direction. Mr. Paul Molac, you're talking about caution. We are here, because prudence is also the way to preserve the freedom of elected representatives in terms of assembly or merger. I share your comment on the major regions – I have already referred to this by responding to President Mélenchon. You point to the role of prefects in the forced-run constitution of EPCI XXL. I told you that sometimes there is truth in this, but not always. And, in my personal capacity, even if the debate is open on this subject, I am not in favour of the election of members of the EPCI by universal suffrage. If the EPCI mimics the commune and, of public establishment, it becomes a territorial community, once it is not custom President Mélenchon would be right: there would be a real turn in the history of the Republic. If everything were to go through the EPCI territorial community, and no longer through the commune, it would really be a break with what made the history of the French administrative map. In any case, I am giving the subject to the debate. Reference was also made to new communes which would be located in several departments at the same time. The famous law of 11 November 1789 and the law of December provided that a department was divided into districts – at the time, there was no mention of boroughs – and that each municipality must be in a single department. Beyond the historical data, what about the idea of starting to create electoral sections, because that would be the case in new communes! I know that the Freedom and Territory Group is very good, Mr Molac, but I will not risk that. In my view, creating mini-LMAs everywhere would not be in line with simplification or what we want to do with the commune. Madame Émilie Guerel, you quoted Louis XVI when President Mélenchon had left: it is a shame. You recalled the philosophy of the text, thank you for it. I would like to thank you, Mr Dimitri Houbron, for, in your respective constituencies, you have taken the time to consult the local elected representatives and the mayors concerned with these matters. I know that with the rapporteurs, the Chair of the Committee on Laws and also Mr Remy Rebeyrotte, you have taken the trouble of participating in the drafting of the amendments tabled this evening, in conjunction with the two senators. When I am in the Senate, I am often told that members of the majority do not understand the Senate and that they are not included in matters relating to territorial communities. Mrs Guerel, Mr Houbron, you have shown that Members can do exactly what is expected of them, and I thank you once again. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Untermaier, I have answered the overall question of consultation, but I think you are right about citizen participation. Your reflection is not only about the new communes; It raises the question of how it is possible to support the so-called participatory democracy or citizens' association. I, too, am very active in this area, since this does not weaken representative democracy. We will certainly have an opportunity to work together on this, if you agree, as part of the review of the future Bill Engagement and Proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u257	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u258	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u259	The objective of this article is simple: to smooth the decrease in the number of municipal councillors, as a result of the merger of several municipalities into a new municipality. The article therefore amends the rules on the composition of the municipal council during the transitional period, established after the creation of the new commune. The aim is to allow for a more gradual reduction in the number of municipal councillors in order to ensure a smoother transition. After a merger, the municipal council usually consists of the addition of all municipal councillors, i.e. in some cases between 150 and 200 councillors. From the next renewal, this number falls, depending on the size of the municipality, from 50 to 70 % and then returns to the common law. Problems of representativeness arise for smaller municipalities, which often lose all their representatives on the municipal council of the new municipality. Because it is important to make a correction to this decrease is to allow a better representativeness of the merged municipalities during this transitional period, I will vote in favour of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u260	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u261	There was a strong expectation for this bill. Mr Mélenchon and Mr Little must know that if there was a carrot, there were two more, and that worked for the new municipality of Livarot-Pays-d'Auge. In fact, the new communes are also a consequence of the NOTRE law. I used to say that it took a tripod for the new municipality to stand up: to the financial attractiveness, it was necessary to add the future weight of the new municipality in the EPCI, and, another consequence of the NOTRE law, the return of powers that the communities of agglomeration did not assume and that the communes had to assume themselves. That is why the mayors, who do not love the stick, seized the ball at the leap of the new commune. Mr Minister, Article 1e r has raised many questions in a department such as Calvados, or several new communes with a large number of communes have been formed. The original version of the article, in Ms. Françoise Gatel's bill for the Senate, was to increase the Council's membership to three times the number of historic communes. This is understood in order to theoretically be able to form a three-member communal council in each delegated municipality. The Senate rapporteur's amendment, Ms.Agnès Canayer, pushed this line of reasoning from three to one third of the 2014 population. Why not? However, let us be aware of two things. For some new communes, such as the one in Livarot-Pays-d'Auge that I founded, this would increase the number of members to 79. It's too much! I welcome the adoption of the amendment that I proposed to limit the membership to 69, but it remains problematic. In addition, we are seven months away from the tabling of lists for the elections. We leave these communes and their elected representatives or candidates in a legal instability that is not satisfactory. I therefore hope that this matter will be decided as soon as possible. Let us beware of appearances: to increase the size of the municipal council of a new commune does not necessarily make democracy live, it is a mistake to think so. Thus, in communes where the legislator has doubled the number of candidates to less than one year from the elections, candidates will find it difficult to submit complete lists and so there will often be only one list, which, ultimately, is the opposite of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u262	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u263	The system of the new communes has been very successful, particularly in the department of Orne where the practice of intercommunality was old, the integration of advanced intercommunal competences and the solidarity needed to remain in positive territorial dynamics. Thus, from 2014, this department of which I am the chosen one was one of the first to embark on this historic choice: I think of Tinchebray-Bocage, Boischampré, Écouché-les-Vallées, Gouffern en Auge, Montsecret-Clairefougère, Athis-Val de Rouvre, Putanges-le-Lac and Monts-sur-Orne. At the time, however, there was no choice as to the number of municipal councillors to be retained in the deliberative body of our communes: the municipal council could only be composed on a proportional basis, thus eliminating municipal councillors from the historic communes. In order to take into account the diversity of the delegated municipalities and to have the same approach for all the new municipalities, the fact that these municipal councils include in 2020 at least one third of the municipal councils in 2014 is therefore a good thing, especially since this corresponds to the expectations of the elected representatives gathered in new communes. I am pleased that our amendments on this matter have been voted on in the Committee on Laws. This article is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u265	It pushes the schmilblick forward, that's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u266	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 30, 31 and 32, which can be presented together. Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u267	The maximum number of municipal councillors will still be set at 69! It is interesting to note that this article helps to ensure a better representativeness in the new municipalities. It tends to create a plethora of staff for those bringing together a large number of historic communes. My amendments propose to limit respectively 49 municipal councillors for new municipalities from 60000 to 79999 inhabitants, 59 for new municipalities from 150000 to 199999 inhabitants and 69 for new municipalities with more than 300,000 inhabitants. Again I take the example of Livarot-Pays-d'Auge: if the text is not amended, this new commune will still have 69 municipal councillors for 6,800 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u268	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u269	Thank you for these proposals, honourable Member, but you have not escaped the fact that representativeness is one of the demands of the mayors. The commission used the 2014 number of elected officials to prevent some municipalities from downgrading too much in terms of representativeness. We have capped the number of 69 members, by resuming the threshold set by the Pélissard law for the municipalities that had been established between 2010 and 2016. Unfavorable opinion on Amendments Nos 30 and 31 and request for withdrawal of Amendment No 32 as it is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u270	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u271	In response to the comments on Mr Leclerc's and Mr Nury's article, I would like to point out that this article is also important because, let us not tell stories, it is he who must produce its effects as quickly as possible for the municipal teams in preparation for the next elections in March. This adjustment is therefore expected even more than the others provided for in this text. An expert subject requires expertise, but very quickly it tends to be confused with the singular cases that each elected official knows on his or her own territory. What is true of Livarot-Pays-d'Auge – a commune that is also familiar to me since part of my family is in its cemetery – is not necessarily in Vexin-sur-Epte or in various communes in Maine-et-Loire or Brittany. Senators have really done a remarkable job from this point of view, because there was a need to find a solution that would ease the overall pressure on the majority of new municipalities on the issue of representativeness. That is why things have moved since the beginning of the bill's consideration. Removing many elected representatives creates problems of representativeness for the former delegated communes, sometimes even tensions arising from history or identity disturbances within the new commune, creating more pressure and even leaving injuries that are not bobos. I believe that the 69-member ceiling is in the right direction. Unfavorable opinion on Amendments Nos 30 and 31. As for Amendment No 32, as it is already satisfied with the committee's vote, I assume that you will withdraw it, Mr Leclerc. The provision proposed in this article, which the Government supports, broadly meets the expectations of most of the municipalities concerned in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u272	Mr. Leclerc?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u273	[[Smile]] Minister, as my foot calls have been heard to your department, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u274	Mr Leclerc, do you withdraw Amendment No 32?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u275	He's satisfied. I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u276	I have before me an amendment, No 16, on the additional article after Article 1. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u277	Since the original wording of this amendment was declared inadmissible under Article 40, the Socialist and Related Group has drafted it differently, providing for at least a momentary experiment. We will thus have opened the debate. Indeed, in the last municipal elections, sixty-four communes did not have lists in the first round – the issue had been settled in the second round. If there were no lists in the first or second round of municipal elections, it is proposed to start the process of creating a new commune, of course by consulting the population. This could help some citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u279	Madam Member, the special delegation appointed by the Prefect in the case you are referring to is a transitional solution and only allows it to take administrative acts. However, administrative jurisprudence in the smaller municipalities tolerates the establishment of an incomplete municipal council to allow them to freely administer themselves. The decision to regroup belongs to the municipal councils of the various municipalities, but with strict majority conditions. Failing this, voters are consulted. It is therefore unnecessary to introduce the procedure you are proposing, especially since it would amount to the total absence of the elected representatives for the creation of a new commune. It is preferable that a municipal council be formed to make such decisions. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u281	Thank you for the amendment, Mrs Pires-Beaune, because it allows the debate. I can see that this is an appeal amendment, but if we begin to foresee the beginning of an automatic beginning of a device because of an external cause, in this case the absence of a list, we enter into a gear of which we must be aware. Although compulsory consultation does not expressly imply integration into the new municipality, it is a start. [[Smile]] Since there are no candidates in a commune, are people being asked to learn from the situation and marry the commune next door? But this one won't necessarily have much to do if she's not faced with the same problem! To solve the problem of commune A in this way, it is necessary to find at least one municipality B to put it in a new municipality. It is as if no one had wanted to marry you, so they decided, at a given age, to marry you in despair with your neighbour; It might be nice if your neighbor really wanted to, but not if he had other plans... The principle of consent of spouses is nevertheless important. Therefore, even if it is only a consultation, we would put our finger in a delicate gear. In any case, I thank you again for opening this debate, which raises the question of what the state must do with regard to municipalities in which the municipal council is non-existent or incomplete. But I would prefer, particularly in the context of the Engagement and Proximity Bill, to design further derogations to allow the municipalities concerned to act more simply and flexibly within their boundaries, rather than trigger an automatic start, knowing that others after us could then decide that consultation is only optional and that the absence of a full mayor or municipal council justifies the initiation of a consolidation procedure. I made it very clear to Mr Mélenchon, at the end of the general discussion, that I was not in favour of it. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u282	Mrs. Pires Beaune?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u283	I will withdraw it, but the purpose of this amendment was not the one you are presenting, Minister. However, I think I have made myself clear. Currently, in the absence of a list, the prefect takes over from the outset, for provisional management.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u284	But he can form one after!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u285	Instead, I proposed that the neighbouring municipality's opinion on a possible merger should still be requested, with its municipal council accepting it or not. It was not an authoritarian merger. But it was interesting to open this debate. I believe that consultation with citizens would not automatically lead to the creation of a new municipality, even if this may be one of the possible solutions. We'll have to find some anyway...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u286	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u287	... because I fear that we will face the problem even more in the next municipal elections, at least in the first round.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u288	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-10-E1010.u289	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Following the discussion of the draft law to adapt the organisation of the new municipalities to the diversity of the territories. The meeting is adjourned.
