ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u2	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to put his question, No. 729, on the teaching of French sign language.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u3	[[Mr Loïc Prud-homme began his speech by speaking in sign language]] I apologize to our 400,000 citizens who "sign" for the imperfection of my mastery of the LSF, the French sign language. However, within a few days, I have made more efforts than the Government has done in two years to ensure that the deaf and the hard of hearing do not remain excluded, despite the law of 11 February 2005, which is still not implemented. Beyond the recognition of the LSF in the Constitution, I would like to talk to you about what prevents hundreds of thousands of people from being citizens in their own right every day. Of course, generally speaking, the accessibility of persons with disabilities has increased, but for the deaf and hard of hearing, with an invisible disability, responses and accommodations are also invisible, and for reasons: they do not exist, or almost exist. These citizens are excluded from public services: in town halls or hospitals, no agents are bilingual French-LSF. In these places, it is easier to be an anglophone tourist than a deaf French citizen! They are also excluded from education since their earliest age: lack of real choice of teaching in LSF, lack of alternatives presented to parents, except implants for young children. Most of us do not know, but access to writing is a real problem for these citizens. It is therefore essential to develop the practice of the LSF by public officials, as well as the translation of public services online. [[Mr Loïc Prud-homme concluded his speech by speaking again in sign language]] In national education, the few teachers who train at the LSF do so voluntarily, on their rest time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u4	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u5	Mr President, thank you for your question, which will allow me to share with you the concrete progress we have made towards the full participation of deaf and hard of hearing people in our society. Since October 8, 2018, five million people who are deaf or hard of hearing have had one hour of free communication per month via translators of the conversation in the language of their choice. This accessibility obligation also applies to reception services for public services and businesses with a turnover of more than EUR 250 million. This is a historic step towards the full citizenship of the persons concerned. Deployment into public services is ongoing. Aide handicap école, the standard of the Ministry of Education and Youth, the Ministry of Culture, its schools, ten museums, the Bibliothèque nationale de France, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have already been made accessible. All ministries are mobilized; They have also been involved in interdepartmental disability committees. On February 22, 2019, access to emergency service 114 in full conversation was opened – I went to Grenoble for the occasion. 114 is a public service that allows people who are deaf or hard of hearing to access all French emergency call centres – on 15, 17, 18 – in metropolitan France and overseas. This service is unique in Europe. It opens up unprecedented opportunities for accessibility to the public service. This is, again, a major step forward, which will facilitate people's access to care. At school, the situation is changing. The Aide handicap école number is now accessible for deaf parents. The adaptation of French sign language programs is scheduled for October 2019. The decree on the optional teaching of the LSF in second and final cycle has been published. It provides for a three-hour weekly course, with an evaluation subject to continuous monitoring. The teaching centres for deaf young people, which are in the process of being deployed, allow two types of complete courses, from kindergarten to high school. With regard to inclusive schools, associations of parents of deaf children and professionals participated in the consultation. I got them all. Specific meetings have already been held, others are coming. At universities, access is facilitated by experimenting with tools adapted to these students. All the projects we undertake take into account the expectations of the people concerned, whether for employment, mobility or life rights. Mr President, we are acting to simplify the daily lives of everyone. We are all mobilized to improve the current conditions and ensure the full participation of all our fellow citizens in everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u6	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u7	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. Nevertheless, a 2019 UN report points to the lack of interpretation, as well as the fact that if we take a lot of care of the disability of people with disabilities, we are working less to make our society more inclusive. I hear your arguments, but let me consider those of the United Nations to be more objective – I think if our seats were reversed, you would do the same, and that would be legitimate. I repeat, this United Nations report highlights the existence of many shortcomings. After a first demonstration, in the spring, in front of the National Assembly, the associations of deaf and hard of hearing will again mobilize on 20 June. I suggest that you meet with a delegation of their members; I am even prepared to accompany him so that we can make progress in this matter. In fact, I have asked you a written question about the recognition of the LSF in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u8	This is indeed a very important subject, which we discussed last night. We have shared the actions of our institution, in the continuity of the work of the working group that you have led.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u9	Mrs Fadila Khattabi, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question No 737 concerning aid for the driving licence of apprentices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u10	My question is for the Minister of Labour. With the adoption of the law on the freedom to choose one's professional future, any apprentice aged 18 or over can now benefit from state aid, up to 500 euros, to pass his driving licence. This is a strong measure, reflecting the Government's commitment to mobility, which is essential for the occupational integration of young people. Through the reform of learning and this assistance in obtaining a driver's licence, the Government is helping to reduce inequalities significantly. This also contributes to the improvement of the purchasing power of families and that of our young citizens. Every effort must therefore be made to facilitate access to this driving licence, which is crucial for access to employment. In fact, similar aid exists in some territories. This is particularly the case in Burgundy-Franche-Comté, where the region provides assistance of 500 euros for young apprentices or high school students who are undergoing vocational training and wish to pass their driving licence. As a Member of Parliament for the Côte d'Or, I am pleased that the President of the region has chosen to maintain this aid for the financing of the permit, thus facilitating the mobility of young people. It seems to me important to encourage all the communities that propose this type of measure to continue their financial support, in addition to the aid proposed by the State. My question is, therefore, whether, in view of the financial assistance provided by the State and the existing arrangements, it can be considered that these aids can be combined, for example through a one-stop shop? How can government and community funding commitments be articulated to make public policies even more effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u11	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u12	Madam Member, please excuse Muriel Pénicaud's absence. The aid for driving licences has entered into force since 1 January 2019. It is intended for major apprentices enrolled in a driving school to pass their licence and, as you point out, is intended to facilitate travel between their home, their apprentice training centre and their employer. The following cumulative conditions must be met on the date of application: be at least 18 years of age; be the holder of an apprenticeship contract in progress; be engaged in the preparation of the tests of the driving licence authorizing the driving of category B vehicles. The aid, amounting to EUR 500, is financed by France responsibilities, which enters into an agreement with the Service and Payment Agency. The Apprenticeship Training Centres – CFA – provide assistance to the Apprentice or his driving school, and the Agency is responsible for paying assistance to the CFA, by reimbursing the assistance already paid to the Apprentice. An attempt is made to simplify the administrative "piping" for the apprentice: it is a source of readability of the device. This EUR 500 aid complements other existing schemes. It can be combined with all other aids received by the apprentice, including those related to transport, which may be paid by the communities or by the professional branches. For example, young people who will carry out a voluntary engagement mission proposed by an association identified by the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and working in areas such as the fight against poverty, support for sick or disabled people, the link between generations, will be rewarded for their commitment: the region will be able to finance part of their driving licence or the transition from the certificate of aptitude to the functions of facilitator, BAFA. As you rightly mention, in Burgundy-Franche-Comté, young people between 16 and 25 years of age, registered in a Burgundy or franc-comtoise car school, engaged in a professional career or job seekers, attached to the parental tax home or emancipated fiscally, can obtain aid to finance the B permit, up to 500 euros, in order to facilitate their access to autonomy. This aid can be combined with the permit aid. The Hauts-de-France region also offers a loan to help 18-30-year-olds pass their driver's license. In practical terms, this aid takes the form of a loan of up to EUR 1000, paid in two times and non-renewable. It can be combined with other devices. Linked to ANFA, the National Association for Automotive Training, through a branch agreement, IRP Auto provides social protection for professionals and supports young apprentice employees. Apprentices can benefit from a car permit of up to EUR 300 and an additional EUR 200 if they take part in a road safety awareness session. The application must be made before the driver's licence is obtained, during the period of professional learning. Everyone is mobilizing to complete these aids. The 1 euro licence is a loan whose interest is borne by the State. It has been set up by the State, in partnership with lending institutions and driving schools, to help young people between the ages of 15 and 25. It allows them to benefit from a payment facility. The total cost of licensing training does not change, but the financial institution advances the money and the government pays the interest. The driver's licence grant applies to young people between the ages of 18 and 25, in particular those who do not have sufficient personal or family resources to finance their preparation for the driver's licence. It consists in the taking over by the municipality of the place of residence of part of the cost of training, in return for an activity of collective interest for 40 to 50 hours, carried out in an identified structure. As you can see, every effort is made to promote professional mobility, which is so important for successful integration into the labour market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u13	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u14	Thank you for all this information, Madam Secretary of State. Thank you for the collaborative work of the public authorities, in order to meet the expectations of our citizens and to facilitate their administrative task. As we know, mobility is the first key to successful integration into the labour market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u15	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to put her question, No 748, on the labour market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u16	Full employment in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands; lowest unemployment rate in the United States over the last 50 years, with a rate around 3%; The average of 5.2% for OECD countries: one might say that the labour market is doing well in Western economies and that the crisis is now a distant painful memory. Yet France has an unemployment rate of 8.8%! It also has the highest compulsory levy rate in the OECD, at more than 46%, or 12 points above average. What the statistics teach us, the French also tell us in the territories: work does not pay enough! I'm from a winery. Too often, it is found that the difference between the SMIC and the level of social benefits received by unemployed persons is insufficient to encourage someone to take up a job as a harvester, for example. However, these sectors are badly understaffed and need to recruit large numbers of workers from Eastern countries. In the Aube department, many wine growers have to call on service providers to hire several thousand posted workers during the harvest period. Employers did not detract from having to do this, when there is mass unemployment in our country. They would rather mobilize the local labour force to support local wine traditions and the territory, rather than employing a labour force from far away. However, in France, artisans, traders and SME employers all show difficulties in recruiting. There would be between 200000 and 330000 offers which would not find takers for lack of candidates. There are inactivity traps in France that do not encourage our fellow citizens to return to work. What answers does the Government propose to ensure that work really pays off, and that efforts and merit are fully rewarded? How do you intend to tackle the inactivity traps that hinder the dynamism of the labour market?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u17	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u18	Madam Member, the problem you are raising is at the heart of the work of the Ministry of Labour. To solve this, it is necessary to stimulate growth, to make it rich in jobs and inclusive, and to ensure that work pays. This is the meaning of the Government's reforms since its entry into power. The ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue have thus reduced the fears of TPEs and SMEs to be hired. Moreover, by improving the skills of low-skilled workers, the law on the freedom to choose one's professional future, which increased the amount of the personal training account allocated to low-skilled workers, bringing it to 800 euros per year, compared with 500 euros previously, and the plan for investment in skills, intended for the training of 2 million job seekers who have little qualifications and are far from the labour market, will improve access to more skilled jobs, which is therefore better paid. In fact, we are already seeing the first results, with the unemployment rate falling to 8.7%, one point less than two years ago. In order to amplify the impact of these reforms, we are launching, under the authority of the Prime Minister, the national and territorial mobilisation for employment, aimed at solving, together with local and regional authorities and the social partners, the concrete problems on the ground. This includes removing barriers to employment, such as the search for a dwelling, a means of transport, an apprentice or a child care provider. On the other hand, the reform of unemployment insurance, which is being drafted, will help to combat precarious employment more effectively. Finally, according to a study by the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques, OFCE, French households will earn an average of 850 euros in purchasing power in 2019, including 440 euros directly linked to government measures. This is the largest increase since 2007. I conclude by adding that today we are present at the Fair Handicap, employment &amp; responsible purchases, in order to encourage companies to hire, even more than they do, disabled workers, by making available to them all the accompanying employment benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u19	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u20	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State, but she is not telling us anything about how to mobilize people who are unemployed, for example, to do the harvest, a task that everyone can do and for which almost 10,000 posted workers are brought to Champagne. This is our concern in the department: how can we make people who are unemployed work in the vineyards, when the wine growers need them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u21	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to put her question, No 747, on the Fontainebleau police station.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u22	The particularly dramatic situation of the police station in Fontainebleau, whose state of old age does not allow officials to work and receive users in dignified conditions, calls for an urgent response from the Ministry of the Interior. The context has become alarming in recent months, with the collapse of a wall of enclosures that has put seven civil servants' vehicles out of service and destroyed a modular public reception building, forcing some units to work in other police stations in the district. Worse still, as a result of recent storms, some of the ceilings of the offices on the floors fell under pressure of water leaks. I have repeatedly stressed, with the support of the elected representatives, that the police could not work in good conditions. Victims and criminals coexist: it is unimaginable and unacceptable. There is also a need for reconstruction of the Fontainebleau police station. Two sites are envisaged, one of which is located in Avon, near the SNCF station of Fontainebleau-Avon, 1.5 km from the centre of Fontainebleau city and in the centre of the police station's intervention perimeter. This option, the most reliable and technically successful option, is recognized by the SGAMI – General Secretariat for the Administration of the Ministry of the Interior – in a report issued in 2017. In addition, funding would largely be provided by a competition fund from the city of Avon, which is an asset in this period of constrained budget. In view of the report delivered by the SGAMI, I call on the Minister of the Interior to decide as soon as possible on the location of the future police station.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u23	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u24	Every day, police officers commit themselves, with courage and a high sense of public interest, to enforcing the laws and protecting the French, in an increasingly difficult and violent context. The working conditions of the police officers are a major concern for the Minister of the Interior. The latter must, in fact, be able to benefit from police stations that meet the requirements and their very important operational commitment. In this regard, the quality of the reception of victims is also at stake. However, too many police facilities are still inadequate, outdated. That is why the Government has decided to mobilize significant financial resources. The National Police has a real estate budget of almost €200 million per year under three-year programming. This effort will obviously not be enough to meet all needs, but ambition is there. Efforts are being made for the direct benefit of field police officers, who will gradually see the face of their police stations change. With regard to the situation at the Fontainebleau police station, the Ministry has carried out work to ensure that the officers are in good working conditions and to guarantee them all the necessary safety. As a result, work was carried out to develop and consolidate the building, as well as to carry out more extensive rehabilitation work. A structural audit of the building, carried out by a specialised company, is also under way. The work that will be identified as necessary will be carried out without delay. Visual diagnoses of the building were already carried out on 16 May 2019 by a design office, whose findings do not call into question the operation of the building as it is. A report was also submitted in early 2019 on electrical installations, which do not raise any particular concerns. With regard to the more structuring decisions that you have mentioned, which could lead to larger-scale work, you have also pointed out for many years, different hypotheses are under consideration. The Ministry of the Interior has updated these options, and the Prefect of Seine-et-Marne is mandated to investigate the case and report its recommendations to the Minister. On this issue, which is now old, the aim is to have clear prospects by the end of the year. Be assured, Madam Member, that the situation at the police station in Fontainebleau has the full attention of Christophe Castaner and mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u25	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u26	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. The Government, as we are well aware, has undertaken urgent work in this police station, and I thank you for that. But you did not escape the fact that a police union and agents marched down the streets of Fontainebleau last week to warn about the dangerous conditions in which they work. It's still a big first. It has not escaped you either that the communities, beginning with the city of Avon, have presented, for the reconstruction of the building, a financial file that holds the road. This is an issue between the two municipalities concerned, but according to the file I have just mentioned, the police station, which must be insisted on, would be located at the heart of its scope of intervention, that is to say, near the station, a place where people sometimes have to deplore situations of danger. Last night I also learned of information which I am particularly concerned about and which will certainly be discussed in the next few days: the consolidation of the police stations of Fontainebleau, Nemours, Montereau-Fault-Yonne and Moret-Loeng-et-Orvanne, which would therefore have a common direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u27	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u28	I do not know if this initiative comes from the Government, but it only raises the concerns of the elected officials and officials concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u29	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to raise her question, No. 758, on the daily security police in Le Havre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u30	In February 2018 the daily security police was officially launched. The aim was to "place the service of the citizen at the heart of the action of the security forces" by strengthening the police presence in the areas of republican reconquest and by providing for DCPPs – delegates to police-population cohesion – to make the link between the population and the security forces, in particular through preventive actions. Provision was also made for additional staff. In Le Havre, two republican reconquest districts, Mare-Rouge and Mont-Gaillard, have been designated in this context. However, after a little more than a year, expectations remain high, combined with the fear of seeing only a stacking of devices rather than the increase of forces in the presence. Of course, two DCPPs are working together and in close proximity, but for the time being the numbers have not been increased and impatience is growing. In addition, the Minister had announced enhanced collaboration with local authorities and municipal police, including through experiments on the opening of the driver's licence file and the registration file. What are the results? If they are positive, as we understand it, when will it be possible to extend this solution to other cities? Finally, we must be extremely vigilant about the transfer of police forces which, in order to effectively strengthen their presence in certain neighbourhoods, would be lacking in others, where trafficking and other crime could therefore migrate. I would therefore like clarification as to when the reinforcements will arrive in Le Havre, in the districts of the Mare-Rouge and Mont-Gaillard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u31	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u32	As you know, deputy, the Government has made security a priority. This action is based in particular on the daily security police, reinforced, in certain areas facing particular crime problems, by the republican reconquest districts. In this respect, the city of Le Havre benefits from a QRR in the Mont-Gaillard and Mare-Rouge sectors, and the system is rising. ATV patrols have been operating since 1 January, and a systematic police presence on QRR neighbourhood committees strengthens the relationship with residents. Thanks to the police-population cohesion delegates you mentioned, partnerships with associations and individuals are intensifying: signing in January of a convention with the AVRE 76 victim support association; setting up operational partnership groups to combat drug trafficking in building halls or urban rodeos. The daily security police also rely on additional human resources, with net reinforcements. As a result, the Public Safety District of Le Havre will be strengthened, both to upgrade it, with 28 additional positions planned, and to ensure the full deployment of the QRR, with 20 additional positions. From June 17, 2019, to get to one of your questions, ten additional police officers will be mobilised, to which thirty-eight others will join as of September 1, 2019. With regard to the access of municipal police to the information contained in the national register of driving licences and in that of registrations, it is the subject, as you have recalled, of an experiment initiated since the beginning of 2019 in eleven voluntary communes, divided between nine metropolitan departments. Some municipal police officers, after individual designation by the mayor and authorization by the prefect of the department, were able to consult the data on driving permits. Due to technical constraints, they were only able to access registration certificate data a month later. As a result of this experiment, computer work was carried out to put into operation an advanced version of the web portal from which the two files are consulted. Its deployment will therefore be possible – in any case the target – in June 2019; We will therefore ensure that this is ensured gradually. The mobilization of personnel in a number of territories, you are right, must not be at the expense of other territories. In fact, the deployment of dedicated personnel in the republican reconquest districts does not mean that the other neighbourhoods should be abandoned. I would also point out that the anti-narcotics unit, which gangrene our neighbourhoods, is intended to work in all the departments where the republican reconquest districts are located.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u33	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u34	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that very precise answer. Forty-eight additional officers, as I have noted, will arrive in the Territory in two waves: ten on June 17, and thirty-eight in September. As a former Security Assistant, I would like to acknowledge the importance and effectiveness of the work of linking the police and the population within the QRRs, formerly known as "ZSPs" – priority security areas. The result is proof of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u35	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor to raise her question, No. 739, on the recognition of the state of natural disaster for certain communes in the Loiret.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u36	I would like to warn about the difficult human and financial situation of families living in communes in the Loiret which have not been recognized in a state of natural disaster following the phenomenon of drought and soil rehydration in the summer of 2018. There are many documented testimonies from households that see heavy, often irreversible, degradations of their homes: the collapse and destructuration of walls, serious cracking, through-slits that allow air and humidity to pass, the collapse of pavements, and no longer functioning oilworks. Some houses are supported by summers in order to avoid their collapse. The situation of these families must challenge us, because reparations are so large that they cannot hire them themselves. However, the abnormal intensity of the natural agent causing the damage fully attests to the exceptional nature of these events. In 2016, the communes of the Loiret department were affected by major floods, followed since 2017 by significant drought episodes. For the months of September and October 2018, the rain deficit was 82%. Therefore, since 12 October 2018, the Loiret prefecture has recognised the case of force majeure with regard to drought. The non-recognition of some municipalities, which are strongly affected by these phenomena, has a sense of injustice and abandonment. This status quo cannot continue. A review of the criteria implemented by the ministers responsible for drought and soil rehydration was expected to be completed by the end of 2018. Like the many families in the Loiret region concerned, I would like to know what could be the outcome of the files of the homes affected in the areas still unrecognised. What, moreover, is the state of work aimed at refining criteria and measures in order to better map the victims and enable them to be accompanied by their insurers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u37	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u38	An episode of drought and soil rehydration affected metropolitan territory in the second half of 2018. For the department of Loiret, 191 communal applications for recognition of the state of natural disaster were submitted in this capacity. In order to decide on the recognition of a municipality in a state of natural disaster, the administrative authority is obliged to decide on the abnormal intensity of the natural agent causing the damage, and not on the extent of the damage. Recognition occurs only when the exceptional nature of the event is proven in accordance with the criteria in force. The interdepartmental approach to adopting new criteria for drought-rehydration of soils has been successful: a circular setting out the content of the new methodology was circulated on 10 May 2019 to departmental prefects. This revision makes it possible to take into account, in the analysis of communal applications, the technical information most relevant from the scientific point of view, by integrating the most recent progress made by Météo-France in the field of hydrometeorological modelling. Improved modelling allows for better representation of the physical processes governing water in soils. The new method will thus make it possible to use the latest scientific knowledge by mobilising the most efficient Météo-France modelling tools; to retain the most scientifically sound geotechnical and meteorological criteria to characterize the intensity of a drought event in the soil while ensuring its legibility by the affected; better characterize drought-rehydration episodes of soils during autumn and winter periods; to significantly shorten, which answers your question, the time taken to process communal applications through the adoption of a weather criterion that can be implemented in a calendar year. These new criteria are used this year to analyze applications for the 2018 drought-rehydration season. The actual investigation of the 4271 files filed in metropolitan France began in May 2019. Government services are mobilized to ensure that the bulk of applications are processed by the summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u39	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u40	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that clarification. I will therefore carefully follow the 191 requests from the Loiret, hoping that, by this summer, the families concerned will get very precise answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u41	Mrs Véronique Hammerer, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No 740, concerning the testing of methanisation by mixtures of sludge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u42	On 1 February 2018, Mr.Nicolas Hulot launched a working group on methanization, which was set up to define policy guidelines and measures to promote the development of this sector. In this way, the objective of accelerating methanisation projects has emerged in order to "decrease production costs and develop a French sector". This proposal is based on a number of means, including the generalisation of sludge methanization at large sewage treatment plants and the widening of the deposits for methanization. According to the press kit in support of this project, the methanogenic potential of these sludges is important in that they represent a strong deposit. The same document states that "mixtures of inputs will therefore become possible because they are necessary for the good performance of methanization but only under enhanced security conditions for agricultural land in the event of application of the digestate." However, some voluntary structures to develop this type of methanization do not obtain the necessary authorisations. For my part, I am convinced that experiments that follow both the precautionary principle and specific criteria would allow us to take a clear position on the subject. The wastewater treatment plant in Porto, the intermunicipal drinking water supply union in Cubzadais-Fronsadais, which is in my constituency, is the initiator of an ambitious methanization project that can feed 300 households. Located in a territory without other competitive methanizers, it would operate by local supply of biowaste, with a defined maximum rate. These criteria, together with the requirement to control the methanizers, a framework and a permit to return to the ground via a plan of application, would allow a safe test of methanization by mixing sludge with inputs. I share the view that the necessary ecological and solidarity transition must be based on local solutions that respect the precautionary principle. In this respect, it seems to me that experimentation allows innovation. That is why I would like to know the experimental and territorial framework that the department intends to put in place to allow methanization to contribute to the diversification of the energy mix.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u43	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u44	Madam Member, you are quite right to draw my attention to the difficulties encountered by some producers of methanizer projects who wish to be able to feed them by mixing food waste produced by households with sewage sludge. Methanisation is, as you pointed out, a promising sector with multiple benefits, both in environmental terms and in terms of job creation. Biogas production must indeed take an important part in the energy transition, relying in particular on the obligation to generalise the sorting at source of biowaste, which was put forward at the end of 2023 by the revision of the European Framework Directive on waste management. These bio-wastes have a high potential for recovery. Their sorting at source is therefore essential for recovery in the form of methanisation and then reuse as a high quality fertilizer. As a result, the sector has both strong support from the Government and a regulatory framework adapted to its challenges. Following the work, which you recalled, of the working group on the development of methanization launched by Nicolas Hulot and successively taken over by Sébastien Lecornu and then myself, the Government took action at the beginning of this year on the mixtures upstream of methanization, which take into account the feedback of all relevant stakeholders. It is clear from this that the mixing of sludge from different treatment plants will be made possible even though it is prohibited to date, unless a prefectural derogation is made, which is often obtained after an administrative procedure which is too cumbersome. It is also planned to facilitate the mixing of these sludges with other similar organic waste from sanitation, which represents a significant potential for the development of methanization. This facilitated pooling between several wastewater treatment plants will also contribute to the diversification of renewable energy production resources. However, the mixing of sludge from urban wastewater treatment plants with bio-waste does not appear to be relevant in view of the rise in the power of an independent bio-waste sector, which allows for high-quality use, provides higher guarantees for pollution prevention and therefore an increased economic value of the resulting digestates. It is for these reasons that the new European Waste Framework Directive of 2018 will ban such mixtures within a few years. It therefore does not seem appropriate to allow the emergence of methanisation projects whose economic model would be based solely on the mixture of sludge from sewage treatment plants and biowaste, whereas this practice will eventually be banned at European level. On the other hand, any methanization project based primarily on sludge from sewage treatment plants or related to agricultural activity can be supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u45	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u46	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I would have liked to have been able to experiment with this process, but I understand that we are taking the path of the impossibility of mixing inputs and sludge. I very much regret this, because the Porto station in my constituency could have had a very interesting tool in carrying out this type of project. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u47	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor to put his question, No 743, on waste management in the work of Greater Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u48	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to the issue of waste in the context of the work of the Greater Paris and the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. More than 40 million tonnes of inert waste will be generated by the 300 construction sites in Greater Paris and those in the Olympic Games. The Seine-et-Marne, which has efficient waste storage and treatment facilities, now receives more than 80% of this non-hazardous waste associated with the economic activities produced in Île-de-France. Due to a "limit to annual storage capacity for non-hazardous non-inert waste" under the Environmental Code in 2020, the annual storage capacity for non-hazardous non-inert waste must not exceed 70% of the quantity of non-inert non-hazardous waste admitted to storage in 2010. In 2025, it must not exceed 50% of the quantity of non-hazardous non-inert waste allowed in storage facilities also in 2010. These exceptional yards therefore require significant additional storage capacity, which contravenes the law of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth. I am also concerned about how this waste can be treated on a regular basis. Given that the capacity of storage centres is limited, and that regulatory limits or administrative refusals that are not always well-reasoned hinder requests for extension, there is a concern that wild waste disposal may increase sharply. I would therefore like to know how the management of this waste, in its financial and territorial aspects, has been organised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u49	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u50	Mr President, you have asked Mr François de Rugy: he cannot be present, so he asked me to answer you. Your question concerns the waste generated by the two major projects: the realization of the Grand Paris Express and the hosting by France of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, and their impact on the storage capacities of non-hazardous waste. I am very sensitive to waste management issues in our territories. The linear "manufacture, consume, throw" model is facing the depletion of the planet's resources and increased impacts on our ecosystems and on our citizens. It is therefore necessary to change the model and improve the performance of our waste collection and treatment systems, not only on a daily basis, but also during exceptional events such as the Olympic Games of 2024. First of all, waste management in Greater Paris is a dimensional subject of the project, which the Société du Grand Paris has clearly measured the stakes. Today, the vast majority of the waste generated is waste that can be recovered as part of development or quarries projects in Île-de-France or neighbouring regions or, failing that, be admitted to inert waste storage. The shipment of waste remaining in storage facilities for non-hazardous waste must therefore remain the exception. For their part, the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 were designed and planned from the outset to be exemplary in environmental terms. My services work alongside the management of environmental excellence of the Olympic Games Organizing Committee to anticipate the specificities of such an event and to support the deployment of innovative solutions. As far as infrastructure is concerned, waste from construction sites will have to be reduced to a minimum by means of preventive work. Thus, in his application, the petitioner voluntarily committed himself to recycling 95% of the waste generated, which goes beyond the 70% imposed by the regulations. Finally, with regard to the management of waste resulting from exceptional use during the Games, I will be particularly careful, together with the Minister of State, that the solutions implemented minimise the production of waste at the source and avoid food waste, and that a systematic sorting at the source is introduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u51	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u52	I thank the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and you, Madam Secretary of State, for your interest in the treatment of waste. As everything about ecology and the environment becomes paramount, we hope that these issues will be dealt with properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u53	The floor is open to Mr. Jacques Cattin to put his question, No. 746, concerning the hydro-electric concession of Lake Noir d'Orbey.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u54	By prefectural order of 20 April 2009, the State granted to Électricité de France – EDF – the renewal, for fifty years, of the concession for the operation of the hydraulic works and the pumped energy transfer station between Lake Blanc and Lake Noir, located on the ban of the commune of Orbey in the Haut-Rhin. This concession provides, in its Articles 4 and 10, for the concessionaire to produce energy within a maximum period of five years after approval of the project by the State services. The new plant was expected to be able to restart in 2019. The concessionaire, after demolishing the former hydro-electric plant at Lake Noir, appears to have abandoned its proposed re-entry into service. This information given verbally by the former Secretary of State to the Minister of the Ecological Transition during one of his visits to Alsace, has not since been confirmed by the State services. The question of the cancellation of the concession granted to EDF and its re-introduction into competition under the rules of European law therefore remains. The former Secretary of State to the Minister for Environmental Transition had made a commitment before the Steering Committee for the Closure of the Fessenheim Nuclear Power Plant to relaunch the dossier, without any concrete result to date. There is also the question of compensation to the local authorities concerned in this case. In fact, the tax revenue losses associated with this project are significant, of the order of €1.3 million per year. The State's responsibility, which is slow to enforce a law binding on it to cancel the concession granted to EDF, and to ask it to compensate it or, failing that, to hand over a functional installation to it, as provided for in the concession agreement, is clearly committed. I would also like to know what action the state is going to take on this issue, as the interests of the commune of Orbey and the community of communes in the Kaysersberg Valley are clearly at stake. On a wider scale, for the Haut-Rhin department, already heavily affected by the forthcoming closure of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant, the postponement or abandonment of this renewable energy project would be all the more damaging.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u55	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u56	First of all, I would like to reiterate our commitment to hydro-electricity, the primary source of renewable electricity, competitive and important energy for the electricity system through its flexibility and for the territories. The development of electricity storage capacity in the form of pumping energy transfer stations – STEP – is a major issue. In the case of the Lake Noir hydroelectric concession, the original power plant was built between 1928 and 1933. As a result of several accidents, the former plant was finally shut down in 2002. The current concession was granted in 2009. The concessionaire has already undertaken significant work on the site for the renovation of water intakes and the removal of old buildings that have become unusable. Today, the concessionaire considers that the 2009 project is no longer in line with developments in the economic context of hydroelectric production and has no proven profitability. In order to be able to revive the site, and in accordance with the commitments made by the Government within the framework of the steering committee in connection with the closure of the Fessenheim power plant, we hope that a new hydro-electric project can be created there. The launch of a new project, however, requires, in advance, the disengagement of the current concessionaire. To this end, and in order to avoid a situation of lasting blockage, I have engaged in discussions with EDF to determine the terms of amicable termination of this concession. These discussions are coming to an end and will conclude in the form of a memorandum of understanding in which the State wishes EDF to commit itself to the following points: to ensure the monitoring and maintenance of the site after the termination of the concession until a new project is defined; transfer to the State the studies carried out on the current project in order to speed up the launch of a new project; Indemnify the communities for the tax revenue shortfall, which was estimated at €3.07 million. The state services in the region will soon contact the commune of Orbey and the community of communes of the Kaysersberg valley to present them with the terms of this termination and the terms of the launch of a new concession. As soon as these discussions have been concluded, we will relaunch a new concession on this site in order to contribute to the development of the first renewable electricity source in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u57	Mr. Jacques Cattin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u58	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I hope that it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u59	Mrs Clémentine Autain spoke of her question, No. 730, relating to Terminal 4 at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle Airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u60	One hundred and twenty-six million passengers are expected to receive Roissy-Charles de Gaulle airport by 2037, once Terminal 4 is completed. This is double the current, yet already considerable, traffic, which raises the question of the Government's political will to develop the territory and also to combat climate change. The project of Terminal 4 is already well advanced since, according to Aéroports de Paris – ADP – the work will begin in 2021. At this stage, however, information and democratic debate with the inhabitants are very little – and it is an understatement. This is proof of this: the public meeting held in Villepinte last April, which brought together – be good! – six participants. This lack of consultation obviously poses a major democratic problem, while the subject is crucial. The development of air transport on such a scale requires a minimum of reflection on environmental, health, training and job quality issues. We are talking about 40,000, 45000, or even 50,000 jobs that would be created. It is difficult to have a clear vision: how many jobs and which ones? The argument of economic dynamics for the territory is obviously to be considered with interest. However, working conditions and subcontracting are already of concern to employees, and the lack of training in our territory prevents a large number of inhabitants from accessing these opportunities. That is why I have been defending for several years the creation of a university pole, just below Roissy, in the north-east of the Seine-Saint-Denis. At the same time, the environmental issue seems to me to be totally under the bushel while it is at the heart of tomorrow's mobility. To double the number of passengers is to multiply the traffic and the nuisances it causes. Many questions remain unanswered, both for the elected officials and for the inhabitants concerned, while the size of the future terminal 4 will be greater than the only airport in Orly in number of passengers. It is therefore the vision of the development of the territory – environment, democracy, economic dynamism – that is at stake. Why wait 2023 for the application of continuous plane descents, which should reduce noise nuisances? When is a serious and independent impact study on the health of the residents of these super-airports? Above all, when is a real public and democratic debate on this major project for the entire Île-de-France region?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u61	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u62	Élisabeth Borne, Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. I fully agree with the need for exchanges on the most important projects at the regional or national level, such as terminal 4 at the Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport. ADP's investments are carried out at the rate of increase in traffic and in compliance with the environmental constraints governing the airport's operations. Faced with the saturation of some terminals at peak times, the ADP group has launched the project to create a new terminal – "T4" – to meet the demand for traffic beyond 2028. The construction schedule foresees a start of work in 2021 and a phasement of the project by capacity modules with a total commissioning in 2037. In its operating phase, the T4 could represent up to 50,000 new direct jobs, while Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport is the headquarters of 90190 direct jobs in 2016 and around 1240 companies. I do not share your opinion on the public consultation that took place from mid-February to mid-May. Although not subject to an obligation to organize a public debate, ADP wished to submit the project to a process of public consultation whose National Commission for Public Debate – CNDP – approved the modalities, the timetable and the support file. ADP has also taken into account the environmental authority's scoping elements. In particular, the initial scope of the consultation has been expanded and a health component added. Ten public meetings and four public thematic workshops were organized, as well as participatory workshops or cafes and stands. A website has been opened and several information materials have been distributed. The departments of the Ministry of Transport participated in several public meetings and coordinated with ADP throughout the dialogue. It is now up to ADP to take into account all contributions received; The CNDP will take care of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u63	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u64	I would like to underline the weakness of the answer on the strategic choice to open this terminal and therefore to increase the traffic to Roissy. We must, in fact, get a response from the Government on the desirability of creating Terminal 4. I remind you that our territory is already supposed to host projects such as EuropaCity, in the triangle of Gonesse, with shopping centres, hotels – in short, another consumerist project leading to hyperdensification – or a wave of artificial surfing in Sevran, not to mention the Charles-de-Gaulle Express and the problems that continue to affect the line of the RER B pending its construction. All this is indicative of an issue of development of our territory about which I have not heard a response from the Government: what is the real opportunity for this strategic choice for the Île-de-France region? Secondly, as far as the democratic debate is concerned, I understand that it is difficult to conduct it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u65	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u66	I do not intend to minimize the efforts already made, but it must be noted that on such important issues there is no political and democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u67	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor to put his question, No. 745, concerning the collapse of houses in Oye-Plage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u68	In the commune of Oye-Plage, on the border of the coastline between the Nord and the Pas-de-Calais, hundreds of houses crack and no one knows why. The mayor of the commune wrote to you, as he had written to your predecessors, on this subject. I wrote to you myself, as I had written to your predecessors. Yet, no concrete response has come to us and the Anserians live in anguish and fear of their house falling apart. The houses of 120 households, spread over a radius of 3 km, are affected by these cracks; 120 couples who have worked their whole lives to buy a house and who see their savings evaporate as the cracks tearing their walls up, making their property unsold, uninhabitable. These inhabitants, united in association, can no longer wait for the state, silent, to be defeated once again. Three times, the requested state of natural disaster was not granted. Today, they want concrete answers to their calamity, a calamity that destroys their morale, their health, their lives and not just their homes. Local actors point to the exploitation of a sand gravitational in the immediate vicinity of the affected area. Since 1989, 2 million cubic metres have been extracted. Many believe that this gravel is fed by veins of pessard sand, a sand that has the peculiarity of always returning to the same level when extracted. This gravel would therefore be fed, as it was extracted, by sand from the surrounding area, for example from the sand that would come from under the foundations of the cracked houses, foundations which would, from now on, rest on a vacuum. The Anserian victims want to know why their house is cracking, and the hypothesis of the impact of the gravity on this disaster can only be validated by a study by the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research – BRGM. I have two questions: are you going to give the BRGM the necessary funds to launch a study at Eye-Plage to understand this peril situation and thus reverse or confirm the hypothesis of the responsibility of the gravity? What do you propose to the owners of the property affected by these cracks to compensate for their financial loss?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u70	You have drawn the Government's attention to the situation of certain dwellings in the commune of Oye-Plage, Pas-de-Calais, located near a sand quarry, which have suffered significant damage. You're asking me about the possible causal links between this career and the damage. I would like to make it clear that this case is long known to the State services in the Pas-de-Calais region. The latter have brought together, on numerous occasions, the various protagonists to try to find the origin of the disturbances, to seek a particular solution for some citizens in great difficulty, to implement tools to monitor the evolution of the damage or to accompany local actors in the preparation of dossiers for the recognition of natural disasters. In early April 2019, the sub-prefect brought together his services to identify the feasibility of a new comprehensive study that would incorporate a soil study into the law of the most affected houses, analyze the geotechnical characteristics of sands, and deepen the search for a possible causality between career activity and damage. A subsequent exchange took place last week between the state services and the communities, town halls and community of communes. The various studies and expertise, whether commissioned by the State or in the course of the legal proceedings initiated, have not at this stage made it possible to establish a causal link between the exploitation of the quarry and the damage caused to the houses. Thus, the identified origin of the damage during the early years could be natural due to the evolution of the groundwater table and the lack of structure of some dwellings. On the other hand, with regard to the damage that began in the 2000s, the origin of the change in the geological state of the subsoil could not be established at the time I speak to you, and the uncertainties remain significant. The licence to operate the quarry expires in May 2020, and the last six months will be devoted to its rehabilitation. The sub-prefect of Calais reminded the operator of his obligations last December and of the planned deadlines. Moreover, the last inspection, carried out in October 2018, by the inspection of the classified facilities of the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – Hauts-de-France had not revealed any non-compliance. In the event that it determines the origin of the housing disruptions, the new study would solve the problem of the loss of real estate capital of the owners of the damaged homes. Either the anthropogenic origin is identified, and the operator's responsibility will then be engaged, or the natural origin is identified, and in this case a request for recognition of a natural disaster will have to be renewed. As you can see, the state services have mobilized heavily to find a solution, and they are still.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u71	[[At 10.30 a.m., Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u72	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u73	Let us agree on the problem: houses built for almost a century, which have never moved before the operation of the gravel, have begun to crack from the beginning of its operation. Hence my two essential questions. Will the GMRO be mandated to carry out the studies and, if so, by what deadline? Whether the damage was caused by the gravity or by more natural phenomena, will the inhabitants all be offered a solution, whether it is the purchase of their property or their rehousing? To these two questions, which I believe to be legitimate, I do not yet have an answer, and what to say about the inhabitants who have been waiting for them for many years and who live in anguish not to know what their future will be made of.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u74	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to raise her question, No. 733, on occupational medicine for national education staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u75	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of National Education and Youth to the health of staff under his ministry. As an employer, he is required to take all measures to protect them throughout their career, to which I know he is attached. Despite the establishment of health, safety and working conditions committees, since 2011, preventive medicine for teaching staff remains a difficult task due to a shortage of preventive doctors – there is one doctor per 15,000 teachers –, the outdated premises, even medical devices, and a lack of working capacity. However, occupational medicine must organise a medical examination every five years for national education officials, as provided for in Decree No. 95-680 of 9 May 1995. This obligation is not fulfilled or more fulfilled and, often, on an entire career, the only visit is an aptitude visit, carried out at the time of recruitment. However, preventing dangers and ensuring effective medical follow-up for teachers is an essential element of well-being at work. It is the employer's responsibility to ensure the health of its agents and their ability to supervise the classes of twenty to thirty children at best. The situation is therefore worrying for the teachers themselves, but also for the pupils, a fortiori for the younger ones, who will be more and more numerous with the future obligation for children to attend school from the age of three. Therefore, I would like the minister to provide us with an assessment of the medical surveillance of his department's officers, and indicate what action he intends to take in this area, with the determination to work for them he is aware of.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u76	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u77	You're asking a very important question, and I agree with everything you've said. For me, preventive medicine is a matter of concern, especially since we are starting from a negative situation. The difficulty of recruiting preventive doctors is not specific to national education. All ministries are faced with a situation that is also experienced by the business community. It is due to the fact that the number of doctors qualified in occupational medicine is insufficient to cover the needs. Medical demography is such that it is difficult to identify the number of prevention physicians available, at least in the short term. This is why we have initiated actions to provide preventive medicine services to all academies, involving different health professionals: preventive doctors, occupational health nurses, occupational psychologists. There are currently eighty-seven preventive physicians, nine medical collaborators, twenty-four occupational psychologists and twenty-one occupational health nurses in the academies. In order to improve the coverage of prevention doctors in all academies and to make preventive doctors more attractive, the rectors of academies have the possibility to fix their remuneration by reference to the scale applicable to occupational doctors of the inter-company occupational health services, known as PRESANSE grid, or even to propose a higher remuneration than this scale in the areas of medical desert or when the position of preventive doctor has remained vacant for more than a year. In addition, we encourage the reception of medical staff in preventive medicine services. This scheme is intended to recruit unqualified doctors in occupational medicine to whom university training is offered to enable them to acquire this qualification. It also supports the work of existing prevention physicians. In addition, in order to assist rectors in recruiting more preventive doctors and accompanying them throughout their professional career in the national education services, a ministerial circular encourages the establishment of multidisciplinary teams around preventive doctors to participate in the medical monitoring of personnel. Finally, we have just published a methodological guide for occupational health nurses, allowing them to conduct nursing interviews under the supervision of prevention physicians. This guide is being disseminated in all academies. The conduct of these interviews will directly contribute to the strengthening of the medical follow-up of staff. This scheme is fully in line with the multi-year action plan of 28 March 2017 for a better integration of occupational health and safety, adopted by the Ministry responsible for the civil service, and the strategic guidelines for national education in the field of occupational risk prevention policy. I am, of course, very close to this issue, which goes hand in hand with everything we do about well-being at work, like the proactive actions we undertake in relation to mutuals in order to accompany our teachers. This is one of the subjects that should lead to progress in the coming years, through the management of the human resources of the community currently set up by the Human Resources Directorate of the Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u78	Mrs Blandine Brocard, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 741 concerning the contracting of schools for disabled pupils.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u79	While our majority expressed the profound desire that the school be an inclusive place, open to all and allowing everyone to acquire the keys to build their future and to become a woman or man autonomous and responsible, it must be noted that with regard to the inclusion of students with disabilities – and as the needs grow – our Republic has, today and yesterday, very great difficulties in welcoming all the children concerned. What is already true for elementary school is even more true for secondary school or high school. I am aware of all the efforts the Government is making today to try to make up for our backlog of suitable units. However, despite the ULIS – local units of school inclusion –, the EEU – outsourced teaching units – or the UEMA – units specializing in autism – we know that this catch-up will still take many years. Let me tell you the story of an extraordinary man who, faced with the disability of his 13-year-old daughter and the years of waiting that she was promised by the lack of places in specialized institutions, decided, together with other parents, to take care of things. From their perseverance was born the college NESCENS. In the Rhône department, this out-of-contract private institution welcomes children from 12 years of age who have mild or medium intellectual and cognitive impairments, and can lead them to autonomy and professional integration. National education teachers specializing in disability issues will be involved as well as health workers. Funds have been raised and premises have been set up. The academy authorized the opening of the institution, and I was able to attend its first open doors a few days ago. Yet, despite the full support of the rectorate for this experiment, this institution can only sign a contract with the state at the end of five long years, because that is the current rule. The inspector concerned and the rectress felt that only one year of operation should allow for the necessary assessments to be carried out before NESCENS was made a contract establishment. Minister of National Education, I know your commitment to children with disabilities, and you know the support of this House for the cause of these children. Could we not consider a specific "disability" criterion, which would, while controlling, of course, the institutions concerned, support this type of initiative by reducing the deadline to one year before a contract is signed? Such a possibility would allow the rectorate to derogate from the traditional procedure without creating a distortion vis-à-vis other institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u80	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u81	Madam Member, thank you for all that you have said about the major issues of inclusive school, for which we can allow ourselves to discuss some optimistic elements for the coming year. On the occasion of the review of the bill for a school of trust, I had the opportunity to present the real transformation of our system. Starting next September, he will propose more favourable statutes for accompanying staff, the creation of additional posts, contracts far better than previous precarious contracts, stronger training, and preparation more in advance of the return of the link with families. All these elements must lead to a true public service of the inclusive school that we want to build. This public service of the inclusive school does not exclude contracted private schools that may participate in this public service. Together with my colleague Sophie Cluzel, we organized a consultation from October 2018 entitled "Together for an Inclusive School". In the conclusions delivered last February, this type of question was, of course, addressed, as it was last Thursday, at the meeting we had, with Sophie Cluzel and all the rectors and leaders of the regional health agencies, in order to prepare for the start of 2019. Starting from the exemplary project of a resident of your constituency, you ask me if it would be possible to relax the rule requiring that, before the state enters into a contract with a private school, it has operated for at least five years. This relaxation would be justified by the fact that the school specializes in the schooling of children with disabilities. The Education Code already provides for a special administrative regime for certain private schools, provided that the RSA – the regional health agency – has recognised that these schools provide education adapted to the handicap of their students. If this first condition is met, the institution may then request to enter into a simple contract with the State, i.e. a contract which will oblige the institution to organize the education "by reference to the curricula and general rules relating to the hours of public education". This contract will also require national education to pay the teachers of the school. As the Constitutional Council regularly states, in order not to violate the principle of equal treatment, only private educational institutions that comply with public service obligations can be financially assisted by public authorities. That goes without saying. With regard to the project you have just mentioned, the initiator of the project sent an email to my services on January 29, confirming that it would welcome its first students in September 2019. Once the institution has opened up, the competent State departments locally, i.e. not only the Academy but also the ARS and the Prefect, will work in full concert to find a solution that is most in line with the interests of the pupils of that institution and their families, with the regulations in force, and with the implementation of the principle of inclusion, which has been reaffirmed recently in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u82	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u83	Thank you, Minister, on behalf of all these children and families who are waiting a lot. They really need to have access to this kind of institution within the time required to set up the inclusive school that I know you work a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u84	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor to put his question, No. 744, on the National Commission for Commercial Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u85	My question is to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. After the listening phase that was the great national debate, organized at the initiative of the President of the Republic, we enter the decision-making phase, based on the observations made. In particular, the need to address the daily concerns of our fellow citizens by giving a prominent place at the territorial level emerged; In this way, communities, communities of municipalities and regions must have their prerogatives strengthened. It is also a question of making public authorities more agile and effective. Last November, I sent a letter to the ministers concerned, expressing my incomprehension with regard to the decision of the National Commission for Commercial Development on a project to establish a large food area in Guignen, a rural commune in my constituency of nearly 4000 inhabitants. In July 2018, the departmental management of commercial development had unanimously given a favourable opinion to this establishment, considering the virtuous project in its aspects of sustainable development and landscape and architectural integration. A few months later, the prefect abounded in the same direction as the DDTM – the departmental directorate of the territories and the sea – whose demands are known, especially in terms of sustainable development, the project being supported by all local elected representatives and by the entire population. However, on 4 April, in Paris, the Commission nationale d'aménagement commercial (Commission nationale d'aménagement commerciale) stopped the project, destroying nine months of work resulting from different phases of listening and consultation between all local actors. Nine months of work destroyed by a national body, crushing the various local levels! By this decision taken away from the ground, all the development and dynamism of a rural area are called into question. In this case, some motivations seem to be clearly descended from jacobinism or even from centralism in Paris: "The service by public transport cannot be regarded as insured" – but it is not for most supermarkets in rural districts! More broadly, at the end of the major national debate, what answers can be given so that local authorities are no longer deprived of their decision-making power?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u86	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u87	You are addressing one of the most important issues: the territorialization of our public policies. In terms of spatial planning, this territorialisation is essential. It is a question of starting from the projects defined by the territories, not of imposing on the territories projects defined since Paris. Much has already been done for this change of approach, in particular with the Action coeur de ville, which really supports projects coming from the territories. At the end of the major debate, the President of the Republic called for an additional act of decentralization, which shows how important the dominant aspect of the territories is. You are asking me about the particular case of the position of the National Commission for Commercial Development on a project carried out by the commune of Guignen. It turns out that the departmental commercial development commission first gave an unfavourable opinion in 2014, then two favourable opinions. These notices resulted in changes to the original project, particularly with respect to the land right-of-way and the number of parking spaces planned. The departmental management of the territories, a service that I am piloting, as well as the prefecture, you recalled, have given a positive opinion, taking into account the modifications made. However, and three times, the National Commission for Commercial Development has given a negative opinion, while stressing, nevertheless, the improvements to the project. It is that it takes into account criteria other than those of DDT and the departmental commission in their accompaniment to the local elected representatives – it is clear here that the deconcentrated services are well in a logic of accompaniment to the local elected representatives. The national commission refers in particular to the provisions of the Commercial Code, with a view, in particular, to avoiding the devitalisation of the centre-bourg – another objective of our spatial planning policy, which everyone shares. That said, the departmental commission or project promoters can appeal to understand the position of the national commission and see how to move the case forward. Be assured that my services and those of the prefecture will be at the side of the local elected representatives to advance in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u88	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 755, on the State-region contract Pays de la Loire Sarthe Le Mans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u89	I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations to the projects and programmes taken into account by the future contract concluded between the State and the region of the Pays de la Loire, following the abandonment of the project for a new airport near Nantes. This contract, if it includes credits in order to improve the Nantes-Paris rail axis by the installation of a new signposting and protection of the line between Nantes and Le Mans, leaves aside the question of the other regional axes from Le Mans. For example, it only provides for emergency work on the Le Mans-Alençon line, amounting to 3.8 million. The current state of this line is due to the corrosion of the ties supporting the track, which has led, since 2017, to the decision of zones of slowing down, thereby increasing the length of the journeys and reducing the possibilities of rotation of the equipment. No credit is entered in the state for an overall renovation of the line, while it serves no less than three regions: Pays de la Loire, Normandie and Centre-Val de Loire. At the same time, for motorway investments in Sarthe, the contract only confirms the realization of the Connerré diffuser, whose decision had already been announced in 2017. Finally, with regard to the training and research activities necessary to prepare for the future, I note that no structural projects have been selected directly and sustainably involving research, innovation and the cutting-edge sectors of the department. I would therefore like, first of all, to see that the railway works necessary for the revitalization of the Le Mans-Alençon axis, towards Caen and Tours, are well planned and carried out; Secondly, that funds should be programmed on projects to strengthen research, innovation and training in the regions of the region, particularly in the areas of digital technology, intelligent objects, tomorrow's automobile and mobility ecosystems. The region of the Pays de la Loire and the state must agree on these priorities, which are necessary to consolidate the attractiveness of Le Mans and the Sarthe. I hope for an operational and forward-looking response.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u90	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u91	You are questioning the Ministry of Cohesion of the territories and relations with the local authorities on the future contract which must accompany the Pays de la Loire, following the decision taken regarding the redevelopment of the current airport. For me, the ambition of this contract is twofold: on the one hand, actions for immediate implementation and, on the other, longer-term actions to develop transport infrastructure, particularly at regional and interregional level. In addition to transport, I will highlight three challenges that you are very familiar with: digital transition, economic development – which you mentioned – and ecological transition. As far as transport is concerned, for the Sarthe, your department, many projects have already been reinforced or decided under the contract of the future. I am thinking, in the first place, of the strengthening of railway links between Sarthe and the Paris region, with in particular two commitments by the Government: to deploy, on the Nantes-Paris line, the European signalling system known as ERTMS2, resulting from the French know-how which is so dear and which will increase traffic; facilitate Sarthois access to Paris airports by strengthening the capacity and robustness of the Massy-Valenton line. Secondly, I believe that the links between Sarthe and Nantes will be made more reliable, particularly with the introduction of the existing railway line to the LGV protection standards – as you know – this is an essential point. Moreover, the future contract provides for new railway commitments, including the renovation of the Le Mans-Alençon railway line, which was not originally provided for in the plan contract. Reflections are already under way between the regions concerned to go as far as possible in this area, and I know how careful you are to ensure that these reflections are followed by concrete actions. In addition to transport, I would like to focus on issues related to economic development, and thus to attractiveness – if it is necessary to strengthen that of your beautiful territory. Our ministry has worked hard to accelerate the deployment of digital and mobile telephony: more than 140 new sites will be installed over the period 2019-2021. In addition, cities in your territory are included in the city centre action plan, and Sarthe has 3 of the 141 territories identified by the Government to boost future industries. As far as education is concerned, the current State-region plan provides funds for higher education and research, which it is important to make good use of to develop these sectors, of which you have rightly stressed the importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u92	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to put his question, No. 734, on the endowment fund for the legacy of the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u93	My question is for the Minister of Sport and concerns the legacy of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024, probably the largest event ever organized by our country in its history. These games represent a great opportunity, as they have this unique power to change society, to accelerate the development of a territory, to generate economic activity and to improve the environment. We must seize the opportunity of this exceptional dynamic to build a more sustainable, united and open society. In Paris, as in Île-de-France and the rest of the country, there must be one before and one after 2024. It is with this legacy that we can judge the success of the Paris Games. Of course, this heritage must not only concern the city of Paris, but the whole of Ile-de-France and even the whole country. It must be territorial and act as a catalyst for urban development, which requires the creation of new housing and new leisure and cultural spaces, the construction of business premises and shops, and the development of transport infrastructure and sports facilities. In addition to the aspect of urban development, this heritage must also be environmental and human, benefiting as many people as possible. The Organising Committee for the Olympic Games in Paris 2024, the OCOG, announced at the end of January the creation of an endowment fund for the legacy of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024. These are specific actions for the benefit of the population, with three objectives: "sport to move more", "sport to educate" and "sport to change your mind", particularly on disability. This fund is financed by the OCOG but is also open to sponsors who can finance actions. In the current budget, the Impact and Legacy Directorate has 50 million euros. In my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis, many local authorities and associations have already indicated to me their interest in applying for this fund in order to carry out certain projects. I would therefore like to know how local authorities and associations can apply for this fund and from what date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u94	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u95	You are asking me about a very important subject and you are following, I know, closely, because you are a sports enthusiast, but above all because you have been fighting, since the first day, for the exceptional event of the Olympic Games to have an impact on the territory of the Seine-Saint-Denis. Your department is indeed one of those for which the fallout and legacy of the Olympic Games are essential. This legacy focuses primarily on sports values: as your remarks have pointed out, the organizing committee and the Ministry of Education, which have been promoting them for several months, will continue to highlight them. It is also a legacy in terms of jobs, the effects of which are now being felt. Mr President, you were with me and with Mrs Sport and Labour, when a few weeks ago we launched the great mobilisation of the Olympic Games for employment, especially for the territories that will host the events and host the infrastructures. This objective is essential because, if we fail to achieve it, the legacy of the Olympic Games will not have been inclusive, for not having benefited those who have, more than others, hosted the events. The third aspect of the legacy concerns infrastructure – not only sports infrastructure, but also environmental infrastructure and housing. Member of the House of Commons, during the examination of the housing, development and digital development bill – ELAN – you helped create a "double-destination" building permit to build infrastructure, but also their future transformation into housing. In Seine-Saint-Denis alone, more than 4000 housing units and an eco-neighbourhood will form part of the legacy of the Olympic Games. This input is very important. I have also agreed with the organisation of the Olympic Games, in particular with those who manufacture the infrastructure, that these dwellings will to a large extent be built with bio-sourced materials, including wood. You also mentioned the endowment fund dedicated to the legacy of games, which is intended to create a drive effect that you have presented very well. This fund announced by the OCOG at the beginning of the year's board of directors has already been abounded in part, but it is planned to find other funders. It will be effective from the next board of directors, which will take place on June 27, 2019, in just over a month. This fund to finance actions benefiting the population is structured around two flagship axes, the Olympic Model Games, and the Olympic and Paralympic Games as catalysts for change. I am sure that you will help us to make it fully effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u96	I call Mr Fabien Lainé to speak on his question, No 752, on the theft and trafficking of cultural property.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u97	On March 1, 2019, sacred vases and hosties were stolen from the church of Sainte-Eulalie-en-Born, in the Landes. A few days earlier, on February 27, 2019, ancient pieces of religious goldsmith's were stolen from Saint-Sauveur's church in Sanguinet. In the New Aquitaine region, it was several places of worship and historic sites that were victims of organized theft. These repeated thefts do not affect this region alone but occur at the national or even international level, despite the efforts of the Central Office for Combating Trafficking in Cultural Property – OCBC – and the Central Directorate of the Judicial Police – DCPJ. A theft of religious objects takes place in France every twenty minutes, and illicit trafficking in cultural property is often considered by the media as the third largest trafficking in the world, after that of drugs and weapons. In addition to the conventional art market, auctions, the sale of sacred art objects and objects of historical interest are proliferating on the Internet. Several websites of sales ads or personal classifieds market items from unreferenced and often dubious sources. For example, an international online sales platform offers a 17th-century polychrome wood virgin, an 18th-century gold reliquary, a Gallo-Roman bronze statuette, a High-Epoque wooden capital, a pair of golden wooden altar columns, and even bronze Phoenician jewels dating back to the first century B.C.E. It is therefore questionable whether it would be useful to establish a verification obligation for these marketing sites to ensure the traceability of objects and thus to combat the looting, theft, concealment and illicit marketing of cultural property. Minister, what are the solutions that the Government is considering to deal with these traffickings that take place, in particular, on the Internet?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u98	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u99	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on an important subject which, for the Ministry of Culture, is a fundamental issue. The fight against the theft and trafficking of cultural property goes hand in hand with the prevention of looting and the safety of protected places, within the meaning of the Heritage Code. You have referred to events in churches, especially in New Aquitaine over the past two years. In this regard, I would like to welcome the intensive cooperation that is taking place against such flights, both in France and abroad, between the police and gendarmerie services, customs, art market operators and my ministry, both at the level of the central administration and the regional directorates. All these services are mobilized to make owners aware of the attention they need to pay to their movable assets, as some of them do not understand the danger of their property. They are therefore encouraged not only to make sure that they are safe, but also to make every effort to recover their stolen or missing assets, even though thefts were committed a long time ago. With regard to thefts in churches, it is apparent that, if they continue to occur, their number has decreased sharply. In fact, this type of flight has increased from more than 600 per year throughout the country in the 2000s to an annual range of between 100 and 140 flight incidents. This decline is accompanied by a change in the nature of stolen goods, which are increasingly made up of metals. When cultural property is stolen, the documentation relating to it must be communicated as soon as possible to the OCBC's specialized service and to the Central Criminal Intelligence Service of the National Gendarmerie – SCRCGN. I have asked my services to consider what should be done to ensure that our compatriots are better informed in case of theft. Indeed, the information they would need is not sufficiently accessible and your question, honourable Member, suggests that it also needs to be improved. The documentation provided allows the object to be recorded in the national database of stolen works of art, which then feeds the international Interpol database, which has been accessible to the public since 2009, and which has just been renovated. This rapid flow of information produces undeniable results since, for several years, it is not uncommon for those responsible for flights to be apprehended very quickly. The system has made it possible to recover much more stolen objects than before, although not all were found. With regard to art objects sold on the Internet, it is absolutely necessary that we take responsibility for the platforms, in the same way as we do in other areas such as the fight against hate speech, "infox" or piracy. Training and awareness-raising among the various actors involved are very important to prevent theft and malicious acts. It might also be interesting to change the legislative and regulatory framework by more severely punishing theft, degradation of cultural property and the fight against trafficking in national and international cultural property. Finally, we intend to continue to empower the platforms and inform the general public of the devices that enable them to recover their stolen assets. My ministry is at your disposal on these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u100	Mr Bernard Perrut, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 749, on means for the elderly sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u101	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. The report on the elderly has the merit of making many proposals and proposing, on this very important subject, avenues for reflection. This is a huge project that will take time, but in my view we do not have enough. The structural and short-term difficulties reported daily throughout France require urgent action. The situation is no longer sustainable in many establishments. Due to chronic understaffing, the exhaustion of many employees, the multiplication of sick leave and absenteeism, caregivers are no longer able to do their job properly. The glaring lack of resources for housing institutions for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – has serious consequences for them. Their support is deteriorating, and they are even at risk of being abused. The difficulty in recruiting qualified staff and the ever-increasing use of temporary employment are evidence of the sector's unease in terms of human resources. The consultation I have conducted in my constituency of the Rhône has shown that EHPAD staff, whose pay levels are very low, are exhausted morally and physically. I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take to upgrade these professions and make them attractive by making the quality of life at work in this sector an objective, so that residents of EHPAD have access to a quality offer. In addition, we need to make the cost of EHPAD more accessible to residents and their families. How will the effort for these institutions be financed, which can no longer wait? Aging is a chance, but it is also a challenge. That is why I wish to hear from you on this subject, which we all care about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u102	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u103	Mr President, it is precisely in response to the urgency that you are drawing our attention that the Minister for Solidarity and Health presented, on 30 May 2018, a roadmap for older people which, on the one hand, includes measures to improve their quality of life immediately and, on the other hand, opens up a reflection, involving all actors in the sector and society, on the challenge of anticipating ageing and losing autonomy. The report submitted by Dominique Libault following the consultation he conducted between October 2018 and March 2019, which involved citizens, the elderly and professionals in the sector, highlights in particular the difficulties faced by healthcare workers – you mentioned them at length in your question – in terms of the duration of their intervention, their travel time and the kilometric allowances they receive, particularly in certain rural areas. In response to this report, the Government indicated that it would soon embark on a major national plan of trades with the aim of upgrading all occupations of older age and thereby increasing their attractiveness. Staff numbers should first increase in order to increase their attendance time with individuals. Four other levers will also be used to significantly change older occupations. The first concerns the ability of employers to recruit the necessary professionals, and will involve attracting job seekers to these occupations and mobilising job integration schemes. The second lever relates to prevention of hard work and improvement of the quality of life at work. To this end, particular account will be taken of the work carried out by the Quality of Life at Work mission in home support services, which involves stakeholders in the sector, with a view to defining and implementing concrete actions that will improve the quality of life at work for professionals in the medical and social sector working at home. In this area, we must not, in fact, proceed in a compartmentalised manner. The third lever is the evolution of training and skills in order to better prepare professionals for new expectations. This increase in skills and changes in trades can be accompanied by salary increases. The fourth and final lever is the diversification of career opportunities for professionals. A qualified person will be appointed to lead the discussion among all stakeholders involved in the professions of older age. As announced by the President of the Republic, an ambitious bill – I am convinced – will then be introduced in order to guarantee the sustainable financing of the loss of autonomy, because that is what this is all about, as well as to rethink the offer of support for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u104	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u105	I can hear you well, Mr Secretary of State, and I can only agree with your will and the proposals of the report, as well as with the broad picture of the situation. But my question was about the responsiveness of the Government to the emergency. When we go to establishments today, we can only see the hardness of work, the lack of recognition of trades, the lack of healthcare workers, the problems of the labour market and training. If we wait for the law you announce – when will it come, by the way? – to remedy these difficulties, I fear that it will then be too late. That is why I am asking you right now whether measures can be funded and implemented quickly, regardless of this bill. Of course, the long-term situation can be taken into account, I am sure, and we will work unanimously on it. But you do not show the responsiveness that I have asked you to do to meet the expectations expressed in the institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u106	Mr Stéphane Demilly, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 757, on the fight against medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u107	I wish once again to alert the Government about the problem of medical deserts. To make my question clear, I will start from a concrete case. In Ercheu, a commune of 820 inhabitants located in the Somme – the most beautiful department of France – a doctor has been sought desperately since the retirement of the previous one. And if this doctor is waiting, it is not for lack of involvement of the municipality: the latter has invested a great deal in communication, to inform about this vacancy, and in the creation of a health centre; Yet, nothing, nothing at all! This case is only one example among others, but it is symptomatic of the situation of many communes – which are no longer only small communes, because, as you know, Mr. Secretary of State, the gangrene of medical desertification wins the big towns and small towns... except perhaps in the South of France, at the seaside! Despite their efforts, particularly to build brand new infrastructure, every week new municipalities are deprived of practitioners. The physical incentive is therefore not enough or more enough to remove the brakes on the installation of new doctors. The consequences of the absence of a doctor are well known: I will mention only the abandonment of care, the lengthening of the distances to be traveled, unbearable delays before being able to get an appointment, or, of course, the saturation of emergencies, which often appear to be the only recourse. Today, one in ten French people lives in a medical desert – and medical deserts are only spreading – while nearly one in two general practitioners is over 55. You understand, it's urgent to act! In the face of this phenomenon, we cannot rely solely on the increase in the numberrus clausus: the arrival of newly trained doctors alone will not make it possible to compensate for future retirements or to cope with the increasing needs associated with the ageing of the population. The problem, you will answer me, is not new: the situation is known, and the alarm has already been given on many occasions – I myself have done so on several occasions here. But the more we wait, the more the situation worsens. When are we going to act, and how? What emergency measures will be put in place to stop the phenomenon as quickly as possible, not to leave medical offices empty and to prevent a two-speed France from establishing itself in terms of access to healthcare?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u108	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u109	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which echoes the concern of many of our compatriots about the declining medical demographics. You wanted to start from a concrete case, rightly, because few approaches are more meaningful; I will also provide you with very concrete answers, especially regarding your department of the Somme. In order to improve access to care, the Hauts-de-France regional health agency is implementing several measures that fall under the "my health 2022" plan and the regional health project. In the so-called "voltage zones", the ARS supports the facilities through two types of contracts: the public service contract – CEPA – under which medical and odontology students receive a grant of a gross amount of 1200 euros per month in return for their installation in a territory defined as under-sense of health professionals for the duration of the payment of the aid; and the contract of a territorial practitioner of general medicine – PTMG. In Hauts-de-France, the number of CEPAs concluded has increased fourfold since 2012: 223 CEPA – and 57 PTMG – have been signed. The assistant doctor's contract – in temporary reinforcement of a doctor already installed –, now limited to areas with high tourist influxes or epidemics, will be extended to all subdenses. In the Hauts-de-France region, this system, already deployed in the Oise region, will apply to the four other departments of the region in 2019-2020. General medicine internships are also encouraged to introduce students to territories and practice. In the Hauts-de-France, 100 per cent of external medical students complete an internship with a general practitioner; 460 internship masters in general medicine welcome interns. Similarly, cooperation between health professionals is facilitated. This includes training nurses under the Asalée Protocol – Team-based Liberal Health Action – in subdenses to enable them to acquire skills that will then be recognized through specific remuneration. Twelve cooperation protocols have been approved to date in the Hauts-de-Frances for vaccination, radiology and ophthalmology. RSA has also launched the "Health Excellence Track" initiative, which aims to increase the chances of success of high school students from priority territories: they are accompanied from the second class to the first year common to health studies – CAPES. Six high schools have been participating in the experiment since 2015; one of them is located in the Somme, in Montdidier, and joined her in 2016 – perhaps you are already informed, MP; More than 400 primary and senior high school students benefited from the device. Telemedicine represents an opportunity to complement the offer of consulting physicians in practice by reducing geographical and demographic constraints. Several experiments in this direction have been launched and are funded by the ARS, including the tele-expertise for the detection of skin tumours in the Aisne, the Oise and the Somme: thanks to this device, 91 general practitioners can request remote expertise from dermatologists confreres; To date, more than 500 dermatology opinions have been issued, of which 70% have been issued in less than 48 hours. Support for multi-professional health homes – MSP – that bring together health professionals who have chosen to work together and in a coordinated way within the same structure, is another strong focus of our policy on access to care. In this field, the ARS des Hauts-de-France accompanies all project promoters, and first of all those whose project concerns the subdenses or the priority districts of the city's policy. In the Somme, twenty-four SPMs are in operation to date. Finally, the plan for access to care provides that all healthcare professionals are provided with a single point of information by telephone or via the Internet, so that they can build their professional and personal projects. There is now a one-stop shop of this type per department; There is therefore one in the Somme within the Hauts-de-France region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u110	Mr Christophe Naegelen, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 759, on advanced practice training for nurses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u111	Secretary of State, I have asked the Government many times about the hospital and maternity in Remiremont, and I will come back very soon to you about Gérardmer's hospital, which is always driven by the same will that rural territories have access to care as other territories. I want to warn you today about another case, one specific case. The development of advanced practice for the nursing profession is part of the Government's response to medical deserts. However, funding for advanced practice nursing training – IPA – is insufficient. For example, the Greater East Regional Health Agency had announced that it would bear the cost for the next three years, but the budget appropriations for 2019 proved to be very insufficient. In addition, the National Association for the Continuing Training of Hospital Staff, ANFH, may also refuse to take charge of the training because of its high cost. As a result, while the number of places is also insufficient, access to IPA training is unfortunately restricted. For example, in the Moselle Valley, a territory cared for by doctors, particularly in local hospitals in Bussang and Thilott, a nurse would volunteer to attend the training, but he was told that there was not enough funding for it, neither from the ARS nor from the ANFH, and that, in any case, there was no more room available. This is just one example among others; It shows that, if the intention is good, the State must also devote the necessary resources to its realization. So what do you intend to do to improve volunteers' access to training? How do you plan to upgrade the IPA salary? Will you be able to pay particular attention to subdenses, especially in the Vosges? Can you now shed some light on the specific case I mentioned?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u112	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u113	I would like to reiterate, Mr President, that the management of the state diploma of nursing in advanced practice is the subject of special attention both by the ARS of the Great East and by the National Association for the Continuing Training of Hospital Personnel, ANFH. The aim is to support and support the launch of a project whose impact on access to care will be major. Since October 2018 – the date of the creation of the master's degree leading to the IPA State Diploma at the first sixteen accredited universities – thirty students have been welcomed at the University of Nancy, two of whom are from the Vosges. Three are from the Liberal exercise, nine from private health facilities and eighteen from public health facilities. The Greater East SAR is committed to covering all costs associated with the first two promotions – tuition, teaching and replacement fees for training professionals. In order to encourage the participation of the liberal nurses, it also allocated them a grant of €600,000. Seventy students are expected to attend the 2019 school year, so the ARS will have committed 5.6 million euros for the first two IPA promotions. For its part, ANFH financed four training courses: two in Alsace, one in Champagne-Ardenne and one in Lorraine. The demands will increase and it is important for nurses working in public health institutions that ANFH be able to work together to address the new needs. With regard to applications for vocational training leave submitted directly by the applicant agents and the content of their dossier, as from 2020, a specific delegation from the regional intervention fund – FIR – will relay the first initiatives of the regions, in particular to accompany nurses from the liberal sector, whose eligibility will be determined by the RSA. So be assured, honourable Member, that within my department, as well as within the Greater East SRA and the ANFH, particular attention is paid to the support and support of this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u114	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u115	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. But it lacks precision with regard to the exact case I have cited, that of a valley full of professionals and people who volunteer there to attend the training but are deprived of means and places. You're talking about seventy students in 2019; Is it not possible to add to them others, especially the nurse I spoke of, who is called upon to play a vital role in the hospitals in Thilott and Bussang, where, I repeat, we are sorely short of doctors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u116	[[At 11.30 a.m., Mr Sylvain Waserman replaced Mr Hugues Renson in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u117	Mr David Habib, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 756, concerning the reports by Santé publique France on the Lacq basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u118	I would like to draw your attention, Mr Secretary of State, to a very special situation: that of Santé publique France, an organization under your authority. Let's face it, this organization's interventions have made me very angry. Don't see any malice in my speech; I hope that there will not be any in your answer either; But this feeling is, I believe, shared by the authorities representing the state on the spot. This State body was mandated by the Government following a report by the Regional Chamber of Accounts on the management of the community of communes of Lacq-Orthez, which I chaired. The magistrate considered that the financial situation was excellent, but he also wanted to know more about the health consequences of the exploitation of the Lacq gas deposit. That's it! From that moment on, this dossier aroused the interest of a number of environmental protection associations – one of which is particularly interested in the search for media light, and which I will not quote here: that it remains in its darkness, it is certainly the best service that can be rendered to the Bearnais! This association seized this file and developed a public expression on the issue of health and work. The State, as always, because of weakness, has answered these questions by entrusting to Santé publique France the task of drawing up a photograph of the health questions in the basin of Lacq. This weakness is not yours: there was then another government, another majority – which I supported, on the other hand. At the time, I had expressed my reservations to the Government and the Prefect. What's the point of this study? Either the State services are aware of the existence of a risk, and then we must intervene immediately and ask for the interruption of activities, according to the precautionary principle: health must take precedence, it is not negotiable. But if there is no risk, then we must not cultivate a sense of health insecurity in this territory! Nevertheless, the State has taken the decision to launch the study. On 11 May last, during a period of electoral reserve, a preliminary report by Santé publique France was published. What we read about it is something worthy of the café du commerce! Not the beginning of a proven statistic; not the beginning of a case on which there would have been agreement from the health authorities. The word is given to pharmacists and doctors, who say that something is happening, but without their name ever being mentioned: it is impossible to verify the authenticity of these words! With the support of elected officials, industrialists and trade union organizations, I tell you, Secretary of State: or something happens, and you must tell us and intervene immediately to stop industrial activities; There's nothing going on, and you have to calm this body down. Tell Santé publique France, which entrusts first-year students in sociology the task of producing this type of report, that they reserve their expression to territories other than the Lacq basin, which has given so much to our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u119	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u120	[[Smile]] In malice, malice and a half, Congressman. Do not prejudge what public health France thinks of local government services! I will try to answer you by objectivating as much as possible the process under way. As you recalled, the Lacq basin has been concentrating on many industrial activities, and many jobs, for several decades; As such, it is continuously monitored by the authorities. Controlling the health consequences of these activities is a priority for the State. In response to a referral from the Directorate-General for Health concerning the desirability of epidemiological surveillance around the Lacq industrial basin, Public Health France has developed a mixed approach, which combines qualitative and quantitative approaches. I will allow myself to elaborate on this point, in response to your judgment on the first conclusions that were able to filter into the press – without knowing by what means it was possible for the press to know about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u121	It was your administration that gave them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u122	Three studies were undertaken: an analysis of the local context; an exploratory study of morbidity; a geographic study of mortality. The objective of the first study is to identify the perceptions, questions and expectations of the various local actors regarding the links between health and environment around the industrial site. In preparing this report, Public Health France relied on a qualitative study using semi-directive interviews. Thirty-nine of these have been carried out with different categories of stakeholders: representatives of state administrations, elected local officials – you, perhaps –, industrial actors, trade union representatives of employees, health professionals, residents, environmental and health associations. This report was also based on some of the results of the ACTER program "to accompany the changes towards resilient territories", which involves the CNRS and the University of Pau. The importance of the employment-economy axis emerges among all interviewees, with reference to an industrial history that is deeply rooted locally. Fears arising from the cessation of activities and the ongoing conversion of local industrial activities are also expressed: you have done so here. The health-environment axis appears to be a growing concern, with varying levels of concern among the stakeholders interviewed. It is relayed in particular by the two main associations consulted. The results of epidemiological studies are expected, even if a lack of causal conclusion is likely, due to methodological limitations – multifactoriality, cocktail effects. Transparency on methods and conditions for carrying out epidemiological studies is particularly expected, as well as better information from local health professionals on pollutants and their impact on health. Finally, an assessment of the frequency of certain symptoms or pathologies, not necessarily included in the databases used by epidemiologists, was supported. A declared health study will be considered in the near future in an attempt to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u123	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to put his question, No. 751, concerning the clinic in Porto-Vecchio.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u124	I would like to alert the Government, as well as my colleagues, to the worrying situation at the Porto-Vecchio clinic. This private health facility, which is absolutely essential in the south of Corsica, collects public money from the regional health agency – ARS – in order to provide a public service in terms of emergencies and maternity. However, this public service is not working well, expensive, and chronically in debt. The State signs a blank cheque without calling into question the funding model. This situation is not sustainable, but the ARS is currently forced to pay rubies on the nail, under penalty of bankrupting the clinic and the public service that goes with it. The users of the extreme south and the approximately 200 employees are thus taken hostage by a financing model which is a drilled barrel. Here I give only a quick example: the annual rental charges amount to EUR 1 million, which seems disproportionate for a commercial area in Porto-Vecchio. This suggests that there might be a "part of the angels" here that the taxpayer is entitled to wonder where it is flying. An audit was commissioned by the Health Care Offer Branch, which is paid for by the department. However, the management of the clinic tells me that the audit is their private property. The SRA then tells me that it is not transferable because of the "industrial and commercial secret," but that I will be able to consult with the Regional Directorate of Public Finance. She tells me that this audit is not in her possession. I find it extremely serious and disparaging that national representation should be led by the end of the nose, in search of an audit that could not be found. Citizens, especially the people of Porto-Vecchiais, have the right to greater transparency. I am in favour of more money being mobilised in favour of health, but not in favour of private rents, especially when it is to the detriment of the means which must be engaged in public hospitals, as in Bonifacio but also in Ajaccio and Bastia. Without a concrete answer, I reserve the possibility of formally referring the matter to the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u125	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u126	We will certainly join on two points, Mr Member: on the one hand, the clinic in Porto-Vecchio is a reference institution for the south of Corsica; On the other hand, it still needs to find its economic model. First of all, the disappearance of the Porto-Vecchio clinic does not seem to us to be possible: the High Health Authority recognises the quality of professional practices and the regional health agency the need to maintain activities, particularly emergency and maternity activities. Since the disappearance of public service concessions, the geographical situation and the weakness of the activity are structurally undermining the budgetary balance of the establishment. An improvement in the internal organisation and functioning with the doctors of the territory and the other establishments of Corsica must always be sought; the solution has not yet been found. An ambitious return-to-balance plan must be completed. A complementary link between emergency activities and SMUR would seem to us to be an important source of efficiency. In view of the elements that have been transmitted to us, it seems necessary to explore this track. This reorganization should allow the clinic to find a budgetary balance in the ordinary law. In this new framework, the return-to-balance plan, as well as the conditions for the exercise of public service missions and their financing, will be contracted. Finally, let me add that the specific situation of this clinic warrants state support. It therefore structurally supports this institution by paying an annual aid of EUR 3.5 million. We wish, you understand, to strengthen this medical-surgical establishment, a reference actor in southern Corsica, but a financial balance must be found.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u127	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u128	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State; However, it lacks precision, in particular with regard to access to the audit. I hope that Mrs Buzyn, who is travelling to Corsica today, will give us more answers. It is not normal that we should not have access to this document. I tell you again: this funding system is obsolete; it creates a structural deficit, and it needs to be changed. Its consequences are harmful to both patients and employees. Other models exist, in La Ciotat, in Saint-Tropez, soon in Carpentras: clinics and hospitals can coexist in the same establishments, without mixing public money and private money. Everyone is doing their job clearly. This model can easily be transposed in Porto-Vecchio, provided that there is a strong will of the State, which is not the case at present. These problems need to be resolved very quickly, as dysfunctions accumulate and eventually lead to human tragedies, sometimes fatal. I have a thought here about Mr. Canonicci and his family.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u129	Mr Frédéric Petit, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 753, on divorces of Franco-German couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u130	My question concerns cases of divorce among Franco-German couples. As you know, my constituency includes Germany, Central Europe, the Balkans; I live in Warsaw myself. Some French have settled in these countries, sometimes for a long time, they have married there, they see their family grow there, but sometimes they also divorce. For two years now, I have been seized of a large number of extremely painful cases of divorces for which judgment is given in Germany, mainly because of unclear decisions, more administrative than judicial, systematically rendered in favour of the German parent. These rather unbalanced decisions have serious consequences for parents and children, not to mention the subjective, but terrible, feeling of being discriminated against by an administrative machine. However, in recent months, this pain is no longer only subjective: the European Parliament largely approved on 28 November 2018 the resolution on the role of the Jugendamt in binational family disputes between France and Germany. There is no appeal to MEPs: petitions for discrimination by non-German parents have multiplied, the best interests of the child are not objectively taken into account; There are discriminatory procedures and attitudes, documents are not translated, deadlines are unrealistic. The dual culture and the second mother tongue are denied. This subject is beyond the competence of a Member of Parliament, since it is a matter of judicial proceedings. A training ombudsman, I first encouraged mediation on a case-by-case basis, and I even supported a pilot project on bicultural co-mediation that seems to be developing autonomously today. But, in the current context of rapprochement between the two countries and in order to ensure fairness and justice in the settlement of divorces between France and Germany, I believe that the Government must invest in particular, as proposed by the European Parliament, in order to develop exchanges and trainings common to officials of the two administrations dealing with the family and child protection. Mr. Secretary of State, what are the options envisaged by the Government in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u131	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u132	Mr President, allow me to reply instead of Amélie de Montchalin, who is on the move for reasons related to last Sunday's election. Throughout the European Union, the number of binational couples is constantly increasing, which probably translates – and we can be pleased about this – the development of a European identity. European law does not ignore this reality; it regularly evolves to take account of the special needs of the families concerned and to ensure that divorce decisions or those relating to parental authority are made under common rules in all countries of the European Union. Thus, there are several family law regulations, which determine the competent judge and the law to be applied. I am thinking in particular of the Brussels IIa regulation, which is being recast, which deals with divorce and parental responsibility, or the regulation of 24 June 2016 on matrimonial property regimes, which came into force on 29 January 2016. These instruments also include rules to ensure cross-border recognition of judicial decisions in the European area. These rules are binding on all the judges of the European Union and enshrine the key concept of the best interests of the child, to which I am particularly committed. They are a tool for divorces between spouses of different nationalities to be settled in balance and legal certainty. With your question, however, I understand that these objectives are not always achieved and that the lack of knowledge about the law and practices of neighbouring States can be a source of hardship and suffering for the persons concerned. However, the European Union provides a great deal of information on the law of each State, with the e-Justice Internet portal, which is accessible to all, including legal professionals. It finances and organises, through the European Judicial Training Network, training and training courses so that judges in the Union are better acquainted with European texts and can discover the judicial system of other States in practice. Every year, French magistrates will meet with German colleagues in their jurisdiction and, vice versa, German magistrates are welcomed in France. These internships improve mutual trust, such as knowledge of judicial systems. In France, the Ministry of Justice is endeavouring to make these tools known to magistrates. Germany is also actively involved in organising cooperation between judicial authorities. I would add that a French liaison magistrate is based in Germany and that one of his German counterparts works in France. Both of these magistrates are helping to facilitate exchanges and to promote international mutual legal assistance between our two countries. Your question highlights the need to continue efforts in this direction, so that the French and German magistrates can deal in a balanced manner with the cross-border cases entrusted to them, in the interests of the children and their parents. It seems to me that in the European Parliament there is a position of coordinator on the rights of the child, whose primary function is to act as an ombudsman in the case of cross-border divorces. As the current incumbent is about to leave, as a result of the elections, I will, through my terms of reference, be committed to ensuring that a French candidacy is proposed. The Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs will therefore support the continuation of an active dialogue with its European partners, in particular with its German partners, in order to make even more effective the indispensable tools that have been developed in family matters for the benefit of the multicultural families of the European Union that you represent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u133	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u134	Thank you for this little friendly sign to bicultural families. I believe, however, that the answer is not judicial. The difficulties I have described are rooted in the role of the Jugendamt, an institution unique to Germany. Far from facing each other, our administrations must work together. There is a good question here of administrations, not magistrates, because once judgements have been handed down, they must be enforced, which has two different administrative traditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u135	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u136	Mr President, my four-minute speaking time is not over! The Jugendamt, created before the First World War, has not been changed since. We need the jurisdictions that enforce court decisions to make an effort to understand. This is not a non-recognition of court decisions, but of administrations in the field of family law, whose representatives must not wage war but form themselves together. There is therefore a need for joint training.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u137	Thank you, Congressman. I should like to remind you that speaking time is limited to six minutes for all statements on a question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u138	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor to put his question, No. 736, on terraced viticulture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u139	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, the European elections are already behind us and the future programmes of the common agricultural policy – CAP – will be under discussion very soon. In this capacity, and as I have done with your predecessors, I would like to stress the particularity of vineyards on steep slopes. In my department of Aveyron, most of the vines are located on steep slopes, most of which have been set up on terraces. For example, these terraces now account for more than 85% of the surface of the Marcillac vineyard and 80% of the surface of the Millau coast. My department is not the only one, European wine-growing is also characterized by vines located on sloping soils. However, as you know, this type of viticulture not only drew remarkable landscapes but also played a fundamental role in soil conservation and water management, a role it continues to play. But such peculiarities have a cost: harvests are not mechanizable and the speed of tractors is reduced by half compared to plain vineyards. Therefore, in the face of increasing competition and incompressible costs, there is a real risk that these parcels will be abandoned. In the absence of exploitation, they would eventually deteriorate, which would eventually lead to the decline of these territories, including ecotourism. For all these reasons, the representatives of the terraced wine sector want the exceptional and remarkable nature of their farms and productions to be defended and supported in the framework of the negotiations of the new CAP. Mr Minister, could you reassure wine growers on terraces by providing, through agri-environmental and climatic measures, your support for a wine-growing which suffers from certain natural handicaps but which guarantees the future of dynamic rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u140	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u141	Mr President, thank you for this very important question, because it concerns ecotourism, agrotourism and the maintenance of natural landscapes. Indeed, every time agriculture recedes, a wasteland settles, which deteriorates the landscape. You are wondering about measures that could be taken to support viticulture on terraces and steep slopes. This is an issue on which I am mobilizing in the framework of the CAP negotiations. French viticulture is part of our heritage; She's our story. It is enough to travel to France to enjoy the wonderful landscapes that it contributes to forming. I am aware of the many difficulties that this sector faces, particularly because of the hazards of the climate or, as you mentioned here, because of the geographical situation. As you know, there is no "mountain vineyard" classification, and it is unlikely that we will get it. On the other hand, the natural handicaps of viticulture are attested and recognised by the classification in mountain areas, which has enabled wine growers to benefit from the compensatory allowances for natural handicaps – ICHN – which, together with the agri-environmental and climatic measures – MAEC – form an integral part of the second pillar of the CAP. Together with the President of the Republic, I have recalled here on several occasions, we are fighting to maintain the budget of the future CAP in the same way. France is opposed to the decrease in the amounts allocated to the second pillar. If we succeed in getting this budget, we will be able to help terraced winemakers with ICHN and MAECs. I know these hard to exploit hillsides, and that's why I agree with your request. I therefore want to reassure the wine producers who have asked you: in the framework of the CAP, France will do its utmost to ensure that these natural handicaps can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u142	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u143	Knowing your commitment to this issue, I know that the voice of France will be in the negotiation of the new CAP. I also welcome the representation in the European Parliament of the members of the political family that we have supported, in particular of Jérémy Decerle, former President of the Young Farmers, who will be very mobilised on all these subjects, with the French Members of Parliament and the national officials. As you have said, it is important to maintain the budget of the second pillar of the CAP at a good level, as it makes it possible to mobilise resources for the development of our territories and landscapes, whose beauty is recognised everywhere, and for an increasingly sustainable, responsible and quality agriculture. Here we join national concerns, with the adoption of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector, known as EGALIM. I would therefore like to thank you, Minister, for your very encouraging comments on this agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u144	Mr Julien Dive, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 750, concerning farmers' concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u145	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, as the European elections ended 48 hours ago, the negotiations for the next programme 2021-2027 of the common agricultural policy – CAP – will be the first project to occupy the Members of the European Parliament. As has been said, there is a threat to its budget, for several reasons, some of which are related to Brexit. A reduction, if proven, could pose a real risk to many of our farmers, who are already at great risk on the world market. The CAP, as you know, is not a welfare policy, but probably the first of the European Union's integrated policies. On the international scene, it is a bulwark that must be preserved, even if its functioning must undoubtedly be reformed. All our international competitors – Brazil, China, the United States – have introduced a policy of aid to their agriculture, which guarantees a minimum price for their farmers. As you know, a French operator, exposed to market volatility, cannot resist. Let us first cite the example of the sugar beet industry, for which I alerted Stéphane Le Foll in 2016, then Stéphane Travert. The end of the beet quotas in Europe, which ensured price stability, precipitated the planters into a violent crisis. The announcements of factory closures, such as in Cagny, Normandy or Eppeville, in the Hauts-de-Frances, are all disasters not only for the direct and indirect jobs of these sweets, but also for the planters. Members of all the benches of this House, from left to right, have mobilized, like the General Confederation of Beet Planters – CGB – to propose a recovery plan to the German group Südzucker. This one, however, you know that because you know the subject well, prefers to bypass the Florange law and let its sites die. So, Minister, I would ask you, as well as the Minister of Economy and Finance, to tighten the tone in the face of these foreign industrialists who do not comply with French law. I also ask you to reconsider the Government's position on ethanol and bio-fuels, particularly E85, because in this area we are not going far enough. A few days ago, I again suffered setbacks in this area during the discussion of the mobility bill in committee. The Government systematically rejects the amendments that we are putting forward, although they could create real opportunities for agricultural sectors, particularly for the better sector. Let us come to a second example, that of potatoes. For the past five years, I have alerted your predecessors and the agricultural unions that Belgian farmers, crossing the border, come to illegally sublet agricultural land in the North and, increasingly, in the West of France. By offering a rent of 1500 or 2000 euros per hectare, they benefit from the economic malaise of our farmers. The consequences of this practice are serious: besides land speculation, which prevents young people from settling, it has a strong ecological impact because the presence of unregistered plants in France can lead to a black fallow in some territories. It also has very heavy structural consequences, since it creates unfair competition, on which I feel everyone closes their eyes. I ask the public authorities to take over all these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u146	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u147	I will try, in the short time I have left, to answer all your questions. First of all, as I said, France wants to maintain the CAP budget, but above all it wants it to remain a European policy, not a juxtaposition of national policies. With regard to protectionism and trade negotiations, you know the position of the President of the Republic: he opposed the opening of trade negotiations between the European Union and the United States on the grounds that they did not respect the Paris climate agreement; He also warned that France would not sign a treaty with Mercosur that would challenge our agriculture and our health and environmental standards. The beet file is very complex. I receive in the next few days the leaders of the Südzucker group to try to convince them to reconsider their position. It is unacceptable to circumvent the law, refuse to close sugar shops and prevent planters and the CGB – Confederation of Beet Planters – from taking them back. I regret that Sudzücker refused their offer to take over. Bruno Le Maire and I will again put pressure on Südzucker's leaders to review their position. Otherwise, they will have to pay because France has helped them. We won't let that happen. Finally, with regard to potatoes, we are well aware of the situation in Belgium. I have asked the department to be very severe because low quality can cause health problems. Today, the Rural Code prohibits subletting land for commercial purposes. We intend to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u148	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 754, on the right of preemption of SAFE.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u149	I would like to ask you about agricultural land, particularly in Île-de-France, which is increasingly the object of predatory behaviour by investors either to fuel land speculation, in the case of foreign investors, or to use such land for other purposes, including to divert planning rules. In my constituency, in the Yvelines, not a quarter passes without one of these situations being reported to us. This is the case recently of a land located in the heart of an agricultural plateau, on horseback on the communes of Saint-Lambert-des-Bois, Saint-Forget and Chevreuse and covering an area of about 4 hectares. The amount of the sales promises is 250000 euros, or 65000 euros per hectare – ten times the average agricultural price in the sector. The purchaser obviously does not intend to pursue the cultivation on these lands. There is a bulwark against such behaviour: SAFER – land development and rural settlement companies – can preempt land when they consider that their future use would not be in line with France's agricultural strategy. However, this right of preemption may be circumvented if the transaction takes place through an assignment of SCI shares. That is the case in the example I have just mentioned. I therefore call on the Government to find solutions to combat this now well-known and growing process in the years to come, as agricultural land becomes increasingly popular for investors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u150	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u151	Your question is part of the future law on agricultural land on which we will work together, I hope. It deals with the misuse of the right of preemption of SAFE. Today, land predators buy agricultural land. That's not acceptable. The Government defends the goal of "zero artificialization" of land, particularly in the vicinity of metropolitan areas. We must conserve agricultural land to feed our fellow citizens and ensure our food autonomy. That is why we must be intransigent. The future law for agriculture, food and the forest of 2014, of which I had been the modest rapporteur in the Senate, provided for better, more comprehensive information of the SAFEs. But today, that is not enough. I spoke with the president of the National Federation of FASER about speculation on agricultural land. In the context of the future law on agricultural land, we will work with all political groups, associations and agricultural unions to find the legal means to combat speculation for which foreign investors are not always responsible. The resulting work of the joint information mission on agricultural land has already led to a consensus on the need to renovate our regulatory tools. The means to achieve this have certainly not been unanimous. I greet Jean-Bernard Sempastous who was its president. The differences that emerged at the end of the mission are not awkward; all proposals are on file. I hope that the large-scale consultation on land in France, which is due to begin next week, will provide answers to your questions. I know, Mr Barrot, that you will not fail to engage with us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves: to promote the settlement of young people, to facilitate access to land, and to maintain traditional agriculture. Installation, transmission, prohibition of speculation, zero artificialization: this is a beautiful road map on which we could work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u152	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor to put her question, No 732, on compensation for overseas farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u153	My question concerns the compensation paid to farmers in Réunion who have suffered a natural disaster. It covers both time limits and calculation procedures. Payment periods may exceed one year due to a succession of checks. Indeed, after waiting for the end of the sugar campaign to have the figures available, the planters transmit their requests to the services of the DAAF – Directorate of Food, Agriculture and Forestry – of La Réunion which then carries out a first instruction. It lasts between two and three months, followed by a new inspection carried out this time by the Ministry of Overseas Affairs. Next, the Department of Finance conducts its own audits prior to payment. For example, sugar cane planters who suffered losses as a result of storm Fakir in April 2018 are just beginning to receive compensation these days. It is clear that such a time limit is incompatible with the requirements of the agricultural calendar. In the absence of sufficient cash to invest in their fields in a timely manner, planters have no choice but to abandon the cultivation of cane. That's the scenario that's going on right now, even a hundred of them. The situation is no more rewarding for the market gardeners. The second difficulty concerns the manner in which compensation is calculated. The loss is assessed for each operator by reference to its production over the last five years. Not only tonnage but also sugar wealth are taken into account. The harvest of the year is then compared to the so-called "Olympic" average, which excludes the best and worst harvest. If the crop loss exceeds 25%, the planter will be entitled to compensation. Below that, it will have to bear the consequences of the natural disaster alone. This percentage, set out in an inter-ministerial circular, also forces many planters to stop their activities. These two difficulties have in common not to be insurmountable, hence my two questions. Could the time limit for compensation not be reduced to more reasonable proportions? Why, indeed, double the checks carried out by the deconcentrated services of the State by an intervention by the overseas ministry? Should not the 25% rate be revised and halved so as not to endanger too many farms? These issues are crucial at a time when Réunion sugar, like beet here in France, is facing increasing global competition with the end of quotas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u154	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u155	You are asking me about the consequences of natural disasters for farmers in the overseas regions, in particular their compensation. I give you a first answer that should satisfy you: last year's Fakir storm on the island of La Réunion caused very serious damage – market gardening, arboriculture and horticulture are the most affected sectors. In view of the situation, the state of natural disaster has been retained for fifteen communes of La Réunion and the overseas relief fund has been mobilized. Payments for cane operators' compensation were made in the course of May, according to an accelerated schedule, in accordance with the commitment made by the Minister of Overseas Affairs in November 2018. The local agricultural unions have also expressed their satisfaction with the state services – I thank them for that. Secondly, consideration is being given at national level to changing the system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters in order, on the one hand, to empower farmers and, on the other, to obtain better rates of compensation for losses suffered by a leverage effect on Community funds. Controls must be maintained by ensuring that they are appropriate – in fact, objective evaluation elements are needed. The work undertaken, which involves the Ministry of Overseas Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, is part of an accelerated timetable. Our objective is to compensate farmers in the best possible way and as quickly as possible, in metropolitan France and overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u156	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin to put his question, No 742, on the gel in the cognac vines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u157	In the nights of May 4 to 6, the frost hit the Charentais vineyard hard again. Many sectors have been affected, notably in Charente-Maritime around the communes of Saintes and Matha, and in Charente, around Cognac and Jarnac. The area concerned accounts for 10 to 15% of the vineyard, to varying degrees. Although the frost episode appears to be less important than in 2017, where more than a quarter of the vineyard had been heavily damaged, some plots of vines are more severely affected than in 2017 or during the scourge of hail in 2018. The consequences for the harvest are expected to be disastrous. The late arrival of this episode, just before the Ice Saints, combined with the great precocity of the growth of the vine after a milder winter – surely due to global warming – does not allow to be optimistic for the years to come. The deconcentrated services of the State accompany the wine-growers and I thank them for that. Tax and social measures will have to be taken as in previous years: exceptional exemption from the tax on unbuilt land or adjustment of payment schedules for contributions due to the Agricultural Social Mutuality. However, these classic and useful measures must be complemented by others, simple and quick to implement, which are expected by wine farmers in great difficulty. Early advances were achieved by the majority, such as the tax deduction for precautionary savings in the 2019 Finance Act. Surprisingly, however, wine-makers, especially those who are very much in the majority, in the form of a member, cannot yet dispose of it. Given the very close frequency of these episodes of freezing or hail, it seems appropriate to extend to all precautionary savings schemes, so that everyone can anticipate the use of such savings for their cash flow. Are you considering, Mr Minister, studying the extension of concrete and rapid tax measures such as precautionary savings and complementing existing arrangements, with a view to safeguarding and sustaining the activity of the 50,000 people living with cognac?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u158	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u159	Mr Ardouin, first of all, I would like to assure the wine growers of Cognac very sincerely and, more broadly, all the farmers affected by the freeze of my support and that of the Government, which will respond now. The repetition of these phenomena makes it necessary to develop risk management tools and income variations such as the precautionary savings we created last year – as you mentioned. To be more precise, several measures, including tax measures, are likely to meet your demand. First of all, in the event of a loss of standing crop due in particular to the freezing, a proportional reduction of the property tax on the unbuilt properties related to the affected parcels is granted to the taxpayer for the current year, on claim from the tax services of the department. This measure is simple: the discount is proportional to the size of the losses found on the harvest of the year; it shall be granted for the year of the claim and, where applicable, for subsequent years, if the effects of the claim extend over several years. In order to respond to the cyclical difficulties encountered by wine growers in Cognac following the freezing episode in the Charentais vineyard on the nights of 4 to 6 May 2019, I will ask the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, with regard to the land tax on unbuilt properties for the year 2019, to consider kindly the duly justified requests for relief submitted by the professionals concerned. I would also like to draw his attention to the value of providing affected farmers, depending on their situation, with benevolence measures, in particular in the form of payment periods or remissions free of charge with regard to the various taxes to which they are subject. Finally, I would like to point out that the precautionary savings deduction scheme, which you created under the 2019 Finance Act following the reform of agricultural taxation, can be used by individual farmers as well as by companies and agricultural groups that fall under income tax in the category of agricultural profits, provided that they are taxed according to a real tax system. We know very well that calamities are likely to increase in the coming years, especially due to global warming and all weather hazards. That is why, in the context of the review of the common agricultural policy, I am working with my European colleagues and the French agricultural trade unions on the establishment of a strong insurance system, in addition to the existing safety net. This assurance system will meet farmers' demands when they are affected by climate events of this nature, freezing or otherwise. Today, the law does not fully allow it; insurance depends on the channels and is not compulsory. I hope that this assurance system will be as robust as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u160	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u161	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I know that the Government and you are particularly attentive to this issue and to a profession that is not only dependent, like many, on economic constraints, but also closely dependent on climatic conditions, which can prove to be dramatic. It is therefore important to apply these measures to accompany and assist this sector of agricultural and wine-growing activity. It is a question of sustaining these professions, which play a fundamental role in our rural life and our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u162	Mr Didier Le Gac, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 735, concerning the actions of animalists' associations and the protection of farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u163	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to draw your attention to the actions currently being taken by certain associations against our farmers. For several months now, we have been witnessing in Brittany, as in the whole of the territory, a proliferation of shock actions against agricultural holdings. Under cover of reports of ill-treatment of animals, these associations break into the farms. In my constituency of Finistère, since the beginning of the year, there have been several intrusions into poultry farms and, above all, pigs. Last Thursday, the Direct Action Everywhere association released a video on the internet featuring one of our colleagues – yes, minister, a member of parliament! – in a pigsty of the Côtes-d'Armor, in which he entered without permission, in all illegality. These actions, which are part of agri-bashing, namely the permanent denigration of the profession, arouse the anger and incomprehension of our farmers. Everyone must respect the law, but above all, everyone must respect the other. That is why these practices must be condemned and punished. Associations must first respect the work of farmers. Of course, in the event of such an attack, farmers must lodge a complaint. However, if our farmers have to activate the judicial lever when they are confronted with these intrusions, they want above all to show and demonstrate to all that they do not act against animal welfare. Indeed, let us not be wrong about it: our herders strictly apply the regulations in force and are, as you know, engaged in sector plans, with clear objectives to further improve the welfare of their animals, which they have never neglected; They are in compliance with the health and biosecurity rules, thus avoiding epizootic diseases, such as African swine fever at the moment. In short, their working days are rhythmic by the care they provide to their animals. Moreover, the transition to a more reasoned organization of our productions will take place, but it must be made with each other, not against each other. According to a recent survey, 82% of Bretons have a good image of their farmers. If they are looking for information, our farmers are ready to give it to them, in particular by opening up their farms. The pressure thus exerted, which aims to mark the refusal of certain farming methods and to eliminate them, is intolerable. In addition, it is particularly counterproductive, as it ultimately exposes our French producers to increased competition from imported products produced from animals reared abroad under conditions that are often much more questionable. These intrusions cause a climate of real tension. In view of the acceleration of the phenomenon, Mr. Minister, does the Government intend to strengthen the penal system to protect farmers from these unacceptable acts?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u164	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u165	[[Smile]] First of all, I would like to greet you, Mr. Le Gac, for your commitment and the meaning of your question. You posed it in serenity, expounding fcurrently what happened and trying to understand and, above all, find answers. Like you and your colleagues sitting on the various benches of the Assembly, all the members of the Government are fighting against agri-bashing – is that, I believe, a term of patois du Finistère?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u166	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u167	Everyone is free to think what they want, but it is not acceptable for people and their work tools to be attacked. In this case, the Government will be very vigilant and rigorous. A few weeks ago, Nicole Belloubet, keeper of the seals, sent an instruction to all the prosecutors of the Republic to encourage them to the utmost firmness vis-à-vis those who attack the butchers or enter the farms. I recently went to a Parisian market, where a young butcher had been assaulted and beaten; blood had been spilled over all his products, which had to be thrown away. It is essential that the farmers and farmers affected complain. In my department, I myself have set up, on an experimental basis, a committee that brings together the relevant actors, including the public prosecutor, the judiciary, the police and the gendarmerie. We will see how this observatory for the fight against agri-bashing could be generalized at national level. You rightly pointed out that breeders love their animals and work as best they can. They are the primary responsibility for animal welfare, which we often talk about. For my part, I would like to talk also about the welfare of farmers. We have to stop pointing at them and attacking them. We will be intransigent in this regard. A deputy of the Republic broke into a farm in a shameful manner. I say here, Mr. Le Gac: this too must be condemned. Respecting the separation of powers, I believe that this is not the image that a Member should give; This is absolutely not acceptable. The repressive legislative framework is sufficient in this regard. However, in view of the generalization of the problem throughout our territories, the judiciary and the police have been asked to strengthen the prevention of spillovers and to provide a systematic and individualized response to the facts. Ms. Custody of the Seals requested that the criminal liability of militant associations could be considered, if necessary, under the conditions laid down in article 121-2 of the Criminal Code, in the event of an offence committed on their behalf by their organs or representatives. In addition to the fine, the penalty for posting the ruling may be usefully required, in accordance with article 131-39 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u168	Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u169	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor to put her question, No. 738, on short term internships for students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u170	Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, professionalisation is crucial for the future integration of students, as employers expect, in addition to strong academic knowledge, a first professional experience, even for the recruitment of a junior. On the basis of this finding, an increasing number of universities and higher schools have integrated the conduct of one or more internships into their training courses, during the bachelor's or master's courses. The duration of the internship varies from a few days to six months, which is the maximum duration. Depending on the duration, the constraints are not the same for the employer: beyond two months, he must pay a gratuity to the trainee. Employers are very willing to recruit trainees for five or six months at the end of their studies, which often allows them to consider hiring at the end of the internship. These long internships are a real "plus" for companies. On the other hand, companies offer very few internships of a shorter duration, which makes it very difficult to find an internship for students who have to complete one in the course of their studies. Gratification appears to be an obstacle to obtaining an internship of more than two months, as it is difficult for a company to train and compensate a trainee for only three months. The training of a trainee is demanding: it requires time and resources which companies cannot always mobilise over a short period of time, especially since they do not take immediate advantage of it, since the trainees will not stay. The search for internships is therefore very difficult for the students concerned. They spontaneously apply to many companies, but often do not receive an answer. They mobilize their personal network as best they can. However, they do not always have the right network. Universities and schools require these internships to validate a diploma, but the support they provide in this area is often unsatisfactory. Some students who have completed and validated their academic training are not graduates because they have not completed an internship. In some cases, however, they have not received any assistance from their institutions. So, Madam Minister, could you tell us what incentives exist to encourage companies to welcome students who do not necessarily complete an internship? Furthermore, what means do universities and higher schools mobilise to support the professionalization of their students? In particular, they can link relationships with the business world. They could, at a minimum, offer a volume of internships, which would be useful, if not indispensable, for students who do not have a family network.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u171	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u172	You have raised, Mrs Piron, an essential issue, namely access to internships and, more broadly, the professionalisation and integration of young people. As you know, this is a priority of public policy that we have been leading since May 2017. The subject of professionalisation has also been the subject of wide-ranging consultation, culminating in the submission of the report by MM. Rodolphe Dalle and François Germinet. Professionalization and integration often involve periods of immersion in a professional environment and the possibility of including these periods as an integral part of diplomas. The decree of 30 July 2018 on the national bachelor's degree, which has renovated the relevant provisions, now allows the recognition and valuing of professional experience within the framework of a diploma. That being said, you are right, we must go further and extend the scope of the proposals on internships. This is why the law on the guidance and success of students of 8 March 2018 created the observatories for the occupational integration of higher education institutions, which are responsible in particular for the dissemination of internship offers. This morning, a charter on improving guidance for secondary and higher education was signed with the Association des régions de France, so that institutions could make more contact with the socio-economic world and make offers available to students. This is already the case in a large number of institutions, which have recruited persons specifically responsible for accompanying young students in their search for internships and then in their search for employment. Websites have also been set up in most institutions. In addition, we encourage the possibility of meetings between companies and students: I want proof of this the event that took place a few days ago in Nantes, where more than 900 meetings were organised. The subject of gratuity may be a problem, but I would point out that it has been put in place, among other reasons, to prevent companies from accumulating trainees and to ensure that they are remunerated for their participation in the development of the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u173	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u174	Thank you, Minister, and I hope that many students will find an internship this summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u175	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to put his question, No. 731, on the merger of Norman universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u176	Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, the possible merger of Norman universities is a major challenge for the quality of training in Normandy. This project, launched by the president of the region and the previous prefect, raises concern and misunderstanding among many students, teachers, employees of these universities and concerned people, particularly in Le Havre. While the COMUE – community of universities and institutions – Normandy University has existed since 2014 and already allows an intense work between all the actors of higher education in Normandy, the fusion of the universities of Caen, Rouen and Le Havre does not cease to make talk about it. COMUE allows for a network welcomed by all; It is a genuine body of cooperation, and it is on this concrete basis that the university community has been making progress for several years. At present, each of the three universities is based on a large pool of life and jobs, the population density of which is often equivalent to one or more medium-sized departments. Training and research sectors are connected to local economic and institutional actors. We are not on a scale identical to that of other university fusion projects, which are part of the same metropolis or department. In addition to the loss of autonomy, the end of synergies with local actors, the centralisation of support services and the loss of local opportunities for many students, this merger would lead to the specialization of university centres. Above all, there is no evidence to date to establish clearly how this merger could improve the conditions and quality of education offered to students, their families or education staff in Normandy. Moreover, it does not seem to be accompanied by additional allocations for the education system. The main argument put forward is that the more important a university is, the more visible it is, and the greater its international attractiveness. But quantity does not make quality, especially in a context where the French aspire to more proximity. There is no doubt that bringing together training in a huge machine will give priority to quantity over the quality of training. But without the quality, farewell visibility to the international! So we have everything to lose in this project. The unfavorable aim of this merger seems, as always, to be the search for budgetary savings. It is not designed for the well-being of students, researchers, staff and teachers. Worse than that, it risks moving decision-making centres away from each other, leading to management, within faculties, discipline by discipline, and, consequently, reducing the transversality of knowledge that universities have been trying to foster for several years. Transversality often develops in relation to the economic fabric: isn't that what we want, each one of us? Staff and student unions have also protested against this merger project, which is almost unanimous against it. Madam Minister, what is the status of this project? Could you tell us what the state's current position is with regard to the merger of the universities of Rouen, Caen and Le Havre?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u177	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u178	As you rightly pointed out, Member of the European Parliament, the COMUE "Normandie University", which was established in 2014, has made it possible to intensify cooperation between institutions at the regional level, in particular to develop common academic orientations. As a result of this effort, COMUE has been able to respond to numerous calls for projects and has had some notable successes, in particular in the field of new university courses or in the case of "Normandie Valorisation", which aims to enhance academic research. However, in January 2018, the failures of Norman applications for IDEX-ISITE – excellence initiatives and initiatives in the fields of science, innovation, territories and the economy – and for university research schools raised concerns. The Rector, the Prefect and the President of the region co-signed a letter to the members of the community of institutions expressing their fear of a "slow and silent downgrading of higher education and research in Normandy". In particular, they deplored a lack of ambition and invited institutions to consider scenarios of reconciliation or even merger. I have commissioned Bernard Dizambourg to accompany these establishments in the construction of their project. That being said, I want to reaffirm my commitment – which you know – to the autonomy of universities. The project will therefore have to be built and emerge from the institutions; I will not exert any particular pressure. In order to capitalize and consolidate the achievements, the possibility of changing the EUMC – including its governance – was raised. This is now possible thanks to the order of 12 December 2018, which allows the creation of an experimental public institution. In order to promote universal acceptance, joint missions and projects, much more than structures, will need to be highlighted. The universities of Caen and Rouen have chosen to register their progress as part of a merger. The University of Le Havre will be able to continue working with these two merged universities or choose to join them – it will certainly be part of the discussions that will take place prior to the election of the councils in the three universities in spring 2020. Each institution will have to position itself. What is certain is that cooperation between them should be encouraged and that they should be given greater visibility. Of course, nothing will be imposed on establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u179	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1250.u180	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and public vote on the Public Service Transformation Bill; Further discussion of the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The meeting is adjourned.
