ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill calling for the prohibition of glyphosate (No. 1560, 1677).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u2	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u3	On February 10, a new study was released on the impact of glyphosate products on farmers' health. The finding is clear and without appeal: regular exposure to glyphosate increases the risk of suffering from a rare form of blood cancer by 41%. That's a scary number. Other studies, such as that of Gilles-Eric Seralini, have already shown that glyphosate is carcinogenic to animals, and the WHO even recognizes this pesticide as a probable human carcinogen. In view of these elements, it would be logical to apply the precautionary principle. However, the laboratory manufacturing glyphosate has launched campaigns of slander and discredit against those who have had the courage to work on the subject and who have publicly said the danger of the most used pesticide in the world. Oriented and truncated relationships, deceptive experiments, the industrialists did not recede before any method. Yet our fellow citizens are worried. They have opened their eyes to the quality of their food and to what we pour into nature. The poison is there: it is poured into our fields, it flows through our rivers, into our groundwaters, and now into our veins. It contaminates water, air and earth... Now I want to talk about my island, La Réunion. We are the second department that buys the most glyphosate in France after the Aube department, despite the fragility of our economy. In 2017, we spread 51887 kilos of glyphosate on Réunion soil; 51887 kilos of a pesticide that ravages biodiversity – our biodiversity; 51887 kilos of a product that causes cancer; 51887 kilos of poison, or 1.2 kilos of product per hectare – almost fifty times more than in our Corsican friends! I'm particularly worried. While my island is an incredible reservoir of biodiversity for France and the world, we spread glyphosate, whose destructive effects on animal life and biodiversity we know. We poison our soil sustainably. We ingest glyphosate, and the farmers of Réunion poison themselves a little more every day. Glyphosate makes you sick. He's killing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u4	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u5	It's time to really act. Enough chatter, endless meetings, committees, fact-finding missions, and I'm passing on... Today is the time to decide! During the committee's consideration of this draft law by the La France group, several of our colleagues took up the European agenda to block our work here. As General de Gaulle so well said, "You can jump on your chair like a cabrier by saying "Europe! Europe! Europe! "But it doesn't come to anything" – and you know it. Recently, the European Union decided to renew the authorisation to use glyphosate until 2022. If we do not act for five years in five years, Europe will continue to sink the poison of pesticides from our parliaments to our fields. As we know, the lobbys are very powerful in Europe, especially those of agrochemistry such as Bayer-Monsanto, the company that produces and sells glyphosate. These lobbys obtained an extension of Glyphosate authorization. It is now up to us to set an example: France, the second largest European power, must ban glyphosate on its territory and the import of products containing it. It is on this condition that we will create the electroshock necessary for the actual and definitive ban of this pesticide in Europe. Let us be brave, let us be France that enlightens Europe rather than the one that is lagging behind and lies before the powerful! [["That's right! » and applause on the benches of the FI group]] The lobbys have a moral responsibility for the coming disaster, and they already have on their shoulders the responsibility for the poisoning of thousands of Antillaises and Antillese by chlordecone. In this regard, a few months ago, Le Monde told us that Guatemalans had been drinking for two months of chlordecone-contaminated water – a continuing poisoning. However, on 1 February, during the great national debate, President Emmanuel Macron had the foolishness to say before the overseas elected officials that chlordecone is not carcinogenic – even though all the studies prove the opposite! [[Same movements]] Beyond moral responsibility, one day we will have to ask the question of the criminal liability of the sellers of poisons and the politicians who lie and authorize these products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u6	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u7	Today, however, we must respond to the most urgent challenge of protecting our health. Another criticism that some colleagues have been able to make: the place of the examination of this text on this day dedicated to the proposals of laws of La France insoumée. You accused us of simply trying to do a political blow by positioning this text in a place on the agenda that would not allow it to be debated. Well, we heard you, and now you can't run away from the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u8	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Your motion to refer back to committee is above all a waste of garbage that does not say its name – an unacceptable process, which proves your bad faith! Another criticism we have received was the difficulty of replacing glyphosate in agriculture. However, solutions exist, as the Institut national de la recherche agronomique has shown very well in a report on alternatives to glyphosate in France. These solutions include the use of less dangerous and aggressive products, but also mulching, mechanical work, etc. Solutions are available, it is up to the state to help farmers implement them – it is simply a matter of political choice! As I said in the introduction, the first victims of glyphosate are our farmers, who are exposed to a high dose of this poison that increases the risk of cancer. Instead of supporting farmers who want to go to organic farming, you turn your back on them. Just one example: in 2009, the Grenelle Act set the target of 20% of the agricultural area being used for organic farming by 2020. In the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet, known as EGALIM, which was adopted in this House a few months ago, you reduced this target to 15%! Today, it is you who prevent organic farming! Today, it is you who burden farmers and push them into misery! Today, by rejecting our text, you will choose to continue poisoning our farmers. You are not in the camp of progress, but in the camp of regression! This time again, you're doing worse than Sarkozy! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, today you are facing your responsibilities. Following Emmanuel Macron's promise to ban glyphosate, our bill aims to implement it on the exact date put forward by the President of the Republic, that is, on November 27, 2020. You'll have to really vote for or against the ban on glyphosate. This vote will be public, the names will be published, and you will be accountable to the public for your actions and votes. We will publish everything, because our fellow citizens must know who in this House is ready to protect the health of the population and who prefers to submit to the power of money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u10	Don't bother!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] They must know who, in this situation, kills and poisons by voting for referral back to committee – or by his absence organized to escape the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u12	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u13	Before turning to the content of this bill, I would like, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, to express our regret that, on such an important and passionate subject, the majority has chosen to table a point of order. A few days before the conclusion of the great debate initiated by the President of the Republic, is it not extremely strange to want to promote the debate throughout the country, except here, in the National Assembly, when it is a parliamentary niche of the opposition? As we know, a motion to refer back to committee, when we have only one day a year for parliamentary niches, that is tantamount to an end of not receiving definitive... If the Socialist and related groups had a better fate on their own reserved day, since we were able to have a debate on the majority of our texts, most of our proposals were completely sweetened or emptied of their substance when they were adopted: we cannot help thinking that it would have been more honest to say no from the start, rejecting our bills... I close this parenthesis, but the majority group will have to show, during the next days reserved for the opposition, that its will to debate is not just a slogan. I now come to the motion for a law by our colleague Bénédicte Taurine and his group. On 27 November 2017, the European Commission's appeal committee extended the authorisation of the active substance glyphosate in the European Union for five years. On the same day, the President of the Republic undertook to ban its use in our country, at the latest in three years, that is, on 27 November 2020. Our rapporteur proposes that we implement this commitment in practice by laying down in law the prohibition of the use of the active substance glyphosate by 27 November 2020. The members of the Socialist and Related Group fully subscribe to this objective of the earliest possible exit of agrochemistry in general and glyphosate in particular – we had proposed amendments to this effect in the context of the EGALIM bill, with an exit from the use of glyphosate by 2021. However, this common fight cannot be waged without – or against – our farmers. We believe that we must fight with the same energy against agri-bashing, which wants to make our farmers feel guilty of the methods of production which are theirs, which they have been strongly encouraged to follow in the past, which many are still forced to follow for economic reasons, and of which they are the first victims. We can draw a parallel here with the debate that has emerged about diesel in the context of the mobilization of yellow vests: just as we cannot ask our peasants to change their practices overnight, we cannot punish those who drive on diesel because they have been told to do so for fifteen years, and when they cannot afford to change cars. If we want to succeed in the transition to agroecology – a struggle of the socialists for many years – and allow the exit of plant protection products, then we must accompany this transition. In order to achieve these objectives, the Socialist and Related Group will therefore propose, within the framework of the draft finance law for 2020, a social and fiscal package to support concrete changes in production patterns by 2021. While farmers' debt has tripled in 30 years and their incomes stagnate or fall, we cannot accept that they alone bear the burden of such a movement, which concerns our whole society. This fight, to be fully effective, must be conducted at European level by France, so that agroecology becomes the productive model of the European Union, in the interests of consumers, producers and our land. The ban on glyphosate in France, as promised, will not be enough if we continue to import products that contain glyphosate from our European neighbours. This would also put our producers in an unfavourable competitive position. We must do so in France, as soon as possible, and export to our European partners the good practices that public health imposes on us. We therefore call on the President of the Republic to conduct this fight during the new European mandate and during the examination of the future budget of the European Union. A few months before the European elections, we must, more than ever, defend a Europe that places progress at the heart of its project. Health before markets! The environment before the lobby! We are concerned, however, that the Government does not fully share this ambition. On 1 February, the latter submitted to a public consultation a draft order on the implementation of the certificates of economy of plant protection products. However, the proposed provisions appear to be contrary to the general interest in the sense of human health, environmental quality and our rural economy, as well as to the spirit of the three laws relating to this system. The CEPPs create an obligation for distributors to apply solutions allowing them to gradually free themselves from dependence on the excessive use of phytopharmaceuticals. Innovation is based on the progressive nature of the measure and on the ability of stakeholders to find solutions within sectors and territories. This mechanism was adopted in the Act on the Control of Agricultural Land grabbing and the Development of Biocontrol of 20 March 2017. And article 88 of the EGALIM law is part of this dynamic, with the aim of strengthening by order the devices beyond the experimental phase. In terms of form, this draft ordinance, by removing any prospect of sanction, is, without saying, tantamount to nullifying a law, thus exceeding the prerogatives of the executive to the detriment of those of the legislative power. In substance, the text is absurd, given the Government's assertions in favour of agroecology and the speech of the President of the Republic in Rungis in 11 October 2017. How can we deprive public action of the only binding mechanism to help break the pernicious circle of increasing the use of plant protection solutions? Our colleague, Mr Dominique Potier, has therefore formally referred the matter to the Prime Minister on the conformity of this order with the legislation on which it is based. We hope that it will provide a positive response, which would demonstrate, in concrete terms, the Government's commitment to making progress on this issue. Finally, leaving the use of plant protection products, and glyphosate in particular, implies repairing the consequences of their use over time. This is the consideration of phytovictims and their harm. The Socialists of the National Assembly and the Senate have been working for several months on the implementation of a fund to compensate the victims of plant protection products, the principle of which was adopted by 1 January 2020. If, unfortunately, we have not been able to complete the review of this text on our own reserved day, we have heard the Minister's commitment to create this fund, as part of the next PLFSS – Social Security Funding Bill. We are also satisfied with some developments in the Government's position on this subject, as discussed. But when the announced mechanism is presented to Parliament, we will, of course, ensure that it meets the challenges and expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u14	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u15	Our strong dependence on plant protection products – linked to the confirmation of their danger to the environment and to health – has in recent years been the subject of an awareness on the part of our citizens and public authorities. This topic is at the crossroads of important issues related to agriculture, biodiversity conservation and economic development. Three weeks ago, we were considering a proposal for a law by the Socialist Group to set up a fund to compensate the victims of plant protection products, in accordance with the commitment made in the EGALIM Act. The text before us today is intended to prohibit the use of products containing the active substance of glyphosate by 27 November 2020. This molecule, which fell into the public domain in 2000, is now the most widely used herbicide in the world, with about 800,000 tonnes of active ingredient sold annually. It accounts for 25 per cent of the global pesticide market. France alone consumes about 10% of the world's sales of glyphosate. Its success is due to its function as a non-selective herbicide, killing virtually all plants with which it comes into contact, up to the roots. Glyphosate affects the environment and biodiversity in the first place. These plants, which are attacked by glyphosate, form the basis of the entire food chain in agriculture, as some serve as host plants for insects that are needed for cultivation. Studies converge on the rapid degradation of biodiversity indicators. This alarming development is due, in particular, to the use of pesticides, primarily glyphosate. In practice, in our country, almost 75% of insect biomass has disappeared in just under 30 years. Pollinator insects are rapidly declining and, as a result, the bird population has decreased by 30%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u17	The whole food chain is upset. In addition to the effects on the environment and biodiversity – and despite the scientific controversies fuelled by the studies provided by the large firms – it is assumed that glyphosate has adverse effects on human health. And scientific studies warn about the pathologies that may appear, following prolonged exposure. That was said, in 2015, the World Health Organization declared glyphosate "probably carcinogenic". The collective expertise of the National Institute of Health and Medical Research entitled "Pesticides: Health Effects", published in 2013, indicates positive associations between occupational exposure to pesticides and Parkinson's disease, prostate cancer and various haematopoietic cancers. A new study, published in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, highlights the danger of exposure to glyphosate, which would increase the risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, skin cancer, by 41%. The fight against glyphosate therefore has an important public health dimension. As a doctor, I can only be sensitive to these elements. As a result of these discoveries, the public authorities seized the issue of its prohibition. This was the case, first of all, at European level. After long months of negotiations between the Commission, Parliament and the Member States, on 27 November 2017, the Member States voted on the Commission's proposal to renew the authorisation of glyphosate for five years after the European Food Safety Authority refused to classify glyphosate as a carcinogen. We know that this decision was allowed by a reversal of Germany's position and that it was taken against the opinion of France, which advocated a faster ban. The French Republic must, moreover, continue to work to ensure that the authorisation of glyphosate is not extended in the European Union beyond 2022. On the same day, 27 November, the President of the Republic responded by stating: "I asked the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the use of glyphosate is prohibited as soon as alternatives have been found, and at the latest within three years. » The present bill therefore reflects, legislatively and skilfully, the commitment of the Head of State. But we also remember parliamentary debates on the EGALIM law, during which the Government and the majority refused to include this presidential commitment in the law. Last June, the Prime Minister took this step backwards, predicting "the end of the main uses of glyphosate within three years and of all uses within five years, organizing this transition with farmers. This position was confirmed by the President of the Republic in Bourg-de-Péage last January. Yet some consider – and this is my personal position – that it is imperative to ban glyphosate in three years' time. I see two main reasons. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On the one hand, in a rule of law, what is not prohibited is allowed. And I do not think farmers have to choose between their health and their economic survival. On the other hand, the inclusion in the law always has a strong political and symbolic dimension. In making this choice, France would really engage in a virtuous process and position itself as a precursor State in this matter. But since it is important, in this crucial debate, to get out of positions, it seems to me equally, if not more important, to question the conditions for the application of this ban and its consequences. In other words, since we see that all political, economic and agricultural actors want to get involved in this exit, we must work without further delay to organise it and reduce its impact on the agricultural world. The Freedom and Territory Group's position is unanimous on the need to get out of glyphosate in an orderly manner, implementing satisfactory alternatives and accompanying measures for farmers. For I repeat that they should not be the double victims of glyphosate, on the one hand because of their exposure to this substance, on the other hand because of the consequences of a ban without an alternative! All relevant State agencies are being mobilised. The National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour and INSERM have been entrusted by the Government with the task of establishing links between pathologies and occupational exposure to plant health products. Our assembly has set up a joint fact-finding mission on the monitoring of the glyphosate exit strategy, although we regret that no member of the Libertés et territoires group is a member of it. IINRA, for its part, is studying the necessary alternatives to the prohibition of glyphosate, by setting out a few lines of work that seem to us to be as interesting as possible. These accompanying measures for farmers must be comprehensive. They must include investment aid, mobilisation of agri-environmental and climate measures, or dissemination of good practice. It is therefore essential that these avenues of research progress rapidly. Minister, you have presented the resources – including financial resources – involved. Can you give us concrete information on the progress of all these projects? I heard the expression of your ambition. I note, however, that the number of unit doses of plant protection products increased by 12 per cent in 2014-2016, compared to the period 2009-2011, this increase concerning, inter alia, fungicides. The issue should not be limited to glyphosate alone, but should include a broader reflection on the use of plant protection products and, initially, on their reduction. You will have understood that this complex problem cannot be solved in simplistic recipes. The question of alternatives will also have to correspond to a given sector and territory. It will have to adapt to different soil conditions, different climatic conditions and different farming patterns. Thus, there can be no one-size-fits-all solution, but rather a combination of techniques and practices, which must lead us to a paradigm shift in our agricultural system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u18	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u19	Let's get the truth straight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u20	When I was appointed coordinator of the general states of food in the summer of 2017, my roadmap was clear: to put around the table interdependent actors who no longer spoke to each other, no longer trusted each other, no longer trusted us. One of the demands of the agricultural profession that emerged from these general states was to trust them. This state of mind led our proceedings and debates throughout the review of the EGALIM bill: Trusting farmers. Our farmers are responsible, they prove it to us every day. The land they work is their tool and they work for its respect and preservation. I will not describe again the wonderful hours of debate that we have had in this House on this subject, each person present remembers it. These discussions have allowed us to define a method. Better, to implement it. I will leave it to my colleagues to detail our progress, notably Jean-Luc Fugit, Jean-Baptiste Moreau and Julien Dive, rapporteurs and president of the information mission on the follow-up of the strategy of exit of the glyphosate. They have committed themselves daily alongside the channels in order to achieve the goal we all share: to get out of glyphosate for the greatest number of uses by 2021. The advances are here! A resource centre to support farmers towards alternative solutions was launched in early February. A prefect coordinator, in the person of Pierre-Etienne Bisch, was appointed. Agricultural development organisations, experimental and demonstration networks, agricultural education and research organisations are more than ever mobilized to develop and test alternatives to glyphosate, but also to train the main players in this direction. The information mission led by our colleagues continues its work to ensure that each actor converges towards the release of the glyphosate by 2021. A progress report will be submitted at the end of the year. That's not all. I would like to devote a few minutes to a more global issue: reducing the use of plant protection products. I hear on some benches that we would do little, if any, to fight against their use. That's not true. When four ministers – the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation – are mobilised under the Ecophyto II+ plan to reduce the use of plant protection products by 50% by 2025: no, we are not doing anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u21	You can see what it's like!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u22	When this plan plans to speed up the removal of the most worrying substances, to strengthen the prevention of exposure of the population to pesticides or their consequences for the environment and biodiversity, to support farmers in this transition in practice: no, we are not doing anything! When the law provides to separate the sale of the plant protection products council, to prohibit rebates, rebates and rebates, to frame advertising for plant protection products or to extend the definition of neonicotinoids to all chemical substances with identical modes of action: no, we do nothing. Finally, when we are planning an Ambition Bio 2022 program with 1.1 billion euros – Mr.Minister, we are counting on you – or when the latest finance law increases the financing of DEPHY farms by 450,000 euros to multiply them by ten by 2021: no, we are not doing anything! Ladies and gentlemen, our commitment to permanently reducing the use of plant protection products is full and complete, but we are choosing another method. Unlike you, who claim to want to protect farmers and consumers, leaving poor farmers and consumers exposed to poorly controlled alternatives, we make the choice of trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u23	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u24	This trust is not without its counterpart. As we have said and repeated: at the end of the year, if the channels do not take the necessary commitments to get out of glyphosate by 202, we will include this prohibition in the law. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the reason why this bill is not coming at the right time. In 2021, we will leave the glyphosate for the greatest number of uses, whether registered in the law or not. Just a few days from the opening of a prestigious trade fair like the international trade fair of agriculture...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u25	We'll be there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u26	... let's look at what works: trust. Let us not send a message of distrust to our farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, our group chooses to table a motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u27	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u28	So this Thursday afternoon, a few months after the closing of parliamentary debates on the so-called EGALIM law, we are debating a bill proposing to ban the use of a herbicide, glyphosate, by November 2020. This bill raises certain questions, starting with the question of its content, because it includes only one article, without a bibliography or field report, without confrontation with the multiple actors. As far as its real objective is concerned, one can legitimately think that we are in the typical case of "totem policy". As for its temporality or the respect even of parliamentary work, remember that the National Assembly opened in September 2018 a fact-finding mission responsible for monitoring the strategy of exiting glyphosate by 2021, which I chair for a period of three years, and in which a member of parliament represents the group La France insoumis. This mission is unique in France because it has no equivalent in the Senate. It is unique in Europe since no other Parliament has taken up such a task. Since its creation, the Commission has consulted with research actors, representatives of agricultural sectors and the ministerial coordinator of the Glyphosate exit plan. Numerous other hearings are planned as well as visits to the territories. As I committed myself to it with the two co-rapporteurs MM. Moreau and Fugit who accompany me, an annual rendering will be available as of June 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u30	To remove any ambiguity, let us first of all remember that local authorities have no longer the right to use glyphosate since 1 January 2017. In my personal capacity, I had even banned its use as well as that of other pesticides as early as 2015 in the municipality where I was mayor, because I had alternatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u32	Its use is also prohibited in France for individuals since 1 January 2019. It is all too often forgotten that the users of glyphosate were also private individuals, who did not always have good recommendations for use and dosage, in private and public gardens. Let us be clear: I do not know anyone in this House or in the field at the heart of farms, who declares himself to be in love with or to defend any plant protection product. On the other hand, I know elected officials who seek to apply the principle of pragmatism in order to avoid irreversible consequences. I know farmers in love with their profession, passionate from generation to generation, but powerless in the face of a dizzying globalization where the rules of the game are distorted by some national decisions that put them on the bench more and more. Before incriminating, pointing to a profession whose suicide rate is not equal in France – a farmer kills himself every two days, one yesterday, another tomorrow...Before throwing the reproach on ways of cultivating land in France on the eve of the fifty-sixth international trade fair for agriculture, it would be useful to take a step back to analyse an issue that goes beyond the only framework of glyphosate: that of a healthy, sustainable diet, the most environmentally friendly possible and whose production is remunerative for the producer who is at the first link in the value chain. This issue, in an international context, leads me to ask you this question, Madam rapporteur: do you think that the adoption of your bill, in the sole article, will allow no Frenchman to find traces of glyphosate molecules in what he ingurgites?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u33	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u34	Of course not, it would be a pure dishonesty to claim it when 80% of a product like soya, raw or processed, consumed in France, comes from countries where the use of glyphosate is five to ten times more important than in France. Of course not, when cocoa that does not grow in our Champagne plains or on the Larzac plateau is grown, harvested and processed in a continent where no recommendation for use is made when this herbicide is applied with bare hands. Of course not, because you will reproduce the effects of dimethoate, an insecticide used in the cultivation of cherries or tomatoes, which had to be banned and which has been banned since 2016 in France while we import tomatoes and cherries from Italy, Turkey or Spain that still use this product.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u35	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u36	Madam rapporteur, I invite you to come and visit a field, in Picardy, which applies the so-called technique of soil conservation agriculture – I will take you there whenever you want, why not at the end of the debate. You will see a cultivation technique that no longer plows its field but rotates the crops in place, a cultivation technique that has divided soil erosion by four, which has improved useful water reserves, where the soil plays the role of C0 storage, a technique that has halved, or even more, the application of inputs and plant protection products, a technique that has reduced fuel consumption to up to 40 litres per hectare. These soils have seen a reappearance of rodents, lumbrics and volatiles. However, this technique requires the application of this herbicide. It is not theory, nor speculation, but the concrete result that I have seen. But this farmer, who uses the technique of soil conservation, which has many virtues, which will spread five to ten times less glyphosate than in Argentina to produce soy, the adoption of your bill would lead him to a dead end, for lack of an immediately exploitable alternative. And it will still be true in a few months if we don't accompany him! The release of the glyphosate in France is underway. I am confident that we will succeed in almost all situations, but I am concerned for those that we could set aside, put in jeopardy, without possible alternative, if we do not make the right decisions, with pragmatism and without dogmatism. These are all those to whom the use of products with far more harmful consequences for health safety and the environment will be left as an alternative. These are all those for whom mechanical or robotic alternatives are not ready to meet the challenges of their operation. They're all the ones some people don't want to see. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] In conclusion, I invite you, the rapporteur, to take part in the work we are doing in the glyphosate exit mission, in order to find solutions, without a stroke of chin and without putting the plough before the ox.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u37	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u38	We are again considering a bill to ban the use of glyphosate after discussing it a few months ago in the same Chamber. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement shares your sensitivity to this issue, as many of our fellow citizens and, I think, almost all of the members of this House. Several studies have caused the disorder because of the potential danger of this herbicide and we must take this into account. By placing this issue at the heart of the media debate, the President of the Republic obtained that the European Union vote a re-approval of glyphosate for only five years instead of fifteen. Of course, the debate will be reopened at the end of this period, but this progress is already considerable. France has not content itself with this result because the President, who took up this subject very soon, has set us even more ambitious objectives, namely an exit in three years from most uses. We welcome this will and join it. However, to include a ban in the law already seems counterproductive to us. Most of our farmers frequently use glyphosate on their farms. Removing it abruptly would lead to technical and economic impasses. We must take this into account. Today, glyphosate is a simple, fast and inexpensive solution to weed removal problems. No alternative combines these three qualities. Consideration may be given to replacing glyphosate with other weed removers, but the environmental interest is obviously not clear. Instead, we need to work to reduce, in general, the use of plant protection products in our agriculture. This was one of the major objectives of the EGALIM Act. Public authorities must promote the development of agricultural sectors that are much more environmentally virtuous. This can be achieved through the development of bio, high environmental value approaches, but also through better training and increased awareness of these issues among stakeholders. Orders on the separation of counsel and the sale of processing products are subject to this will. Consideration may also be given to replacing glyphosate with mechanical weeding. In my view, this is one of the solutions that must be given priority, but it must be borne in mind that it is not applicable to all situations, and that it is a much more expensive method. In times of crisis in agriculture, the economic aspect cannot be swept away by a turn of hands. As you can see, it is not a question of decreeing the end of glyphosate, and then leaving our farmers in great difficulty. On the contrary, we have chosen, like the Government and its minister, to trust the agricultural sectors in order to find solutions for each use of glyphosate. It is a matter of being both pragmatic, that is to say to find solutions, and very ambitious: aim to get out of glyphosate in three years. This, I believe, is the manifestation of great responsibility. In this debate, therefore, we have two major questions. The first is whether economic issues should be compared to health issues. It's obvious that no. But, as our colleague Julien Dive has just pointed out, Europe, for historical reasons, is far from producing enough raw materials, which are necessary for the feeding of our animals: we import whole boats of soya and maize from the United States or South America, where these crops, transgenic, have been treated with glyphosate. I remind you that the use of glyphosate on existing crops is prohibited in France: it can only be used before or after the cultivation cycle. To remove glyphosate in France is not only to put our farmers in trouble, but also to encourage the import of such products with the residues of glyphosate that go with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u39	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u40	We must lead a coherent agricultural policy, which favours our production at the expense of such imports. Hence the need for three years to adapt and find solutions with the actors concerned. Secondly, why not include the ban in the law after three years? To date, there is no realistic solution for some residual uses. I have quoted them several times during the work of the parliamentary mission on glyphosate, and I invite you, the rapporteur, to consult the report. I will recall here the most important of these practices, so that our farmers know that we are fully aware of their difficulties, and that our deliberations do not focus solely on general concepts. First of all, there is the problem of perennial crops, especially thistle and snail, which are plants that are very harmful to crops. They have underground reserve organs, rhizomes, which allow them both to multiply rapidly, but also to resist conventional weeders. Glyphosate is practically the only solution. There is also the case of sloping agriculture. Working the soil on very steep terrain is sometimes impossible, especially in some vineyards; But it also promotes soil erosion, and sometimes its very rapid destruction. Again, glyphosate is very useful in these conditions, as manual weeding is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u41	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u42	There is still the case of so-called conservation agriculture. It is a type of agriculture that is very protective of the soil, which is almost never naked, contrary to what conventional systems imply. In this case, the farmer sows each time a new crop in the stubble of the previous crop; but, again, use of small amounts of glyphosate is necessary. And, paradoxically, conservation agriculture is, for me, the most successful agricultural method of protecting the environment. I urge you, all of you, to watch videos on this subject in order to better understand it. If we add a few uses in fruit tree growing, on grain alfalfa, on the destruction of intermediate crops, and for some minor productions, we will have drawn up a list of the real difficulties that agriculture will face without glyphosate. If, within three years, glyphosate was limited to these few uses, I am firmly convinced that 70% to 80% of the problem would be resolved. Let us be aware of this. As you can see, the President of the Republic's objective of engaging the release of glyphosate before 2021, for the majority of uses, is a realistic decision. If we share, as I said, your desire to get out of glyphosate, we do not share your methodology. We are obviously concerned, like you, about the protection of the environment and the health of our farmers and citizens. But we believe that a brutal ban would be counterproductive in relation to these same environmental and health issues, particularly as a result of the massive import of processed foodstuffs that it would entail. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] We are in favour of a policy that involves training farmers and their advisers, solutions built on a sector-by-sector basis within the next two years, and active research, the time to imagine answers for the few uses without alternatives today. That is, I believe, the ambition of the Minister of Agriculture, and that is why the MODEM and related groups will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u43	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u44	We look forward to examining this afternoon a text whose ambition is to put the issue of the ban on glyphosate back on the table a few weeks after the President of the Republic declared, in a debate in Bourg-de-Péage, near Valencia, in January, that he would not ban glyphosate by 2021, as he had promised. The annulment in court of the marketing authorisation of Roundup Pro 260 should, however, have prompted the Head of State to renew this commitment. We must admit that we are facing a complex debate. On the one hand, we have the question of the human health impacts of this systemic herbicide, which, despite the war of conflicting scientific studies, requires us to apply a precautionary principle. We must do so with all the more conviction that, although the health impact of glyphosate alone is, it seems, difficult to establish with certainty, there is no doubt, because of the number of substances to which farmers are exposed, that we must limit the proven risks of cumulative effects and interactions between substances. [[Ms. Delphine Batho applauds]] We also need to assess the disastrous effects of glyphosate on biodiversity. They're unquestionable, even if we don't talk about it. By destroying all adventitious plants, glyphosate undermines the base of the food chain. As Vincent Bretagnolle, a biologist at CNRS, recalls, adventitious plants serve as hosts for insects needed for crops. "Insects," he points out, "are absolutely essential, not only for pollination, but also for all the work of decomposition and restoration of the mineral elements available to plants. » Cropping plants therefore need some adventitious plants. However, we know that the management of these "weeds" requires a lot of work for farmers. In an extremely tense competitive climate, giving up glyphosate appears to many users as being quite impossible, for reasons of profitability, and, let's say, sometimes even for the survival of their exploitation. We must therefore reflect collectively, with determination, on the measures accompanying the transition to alternatives, in particular, Mr Minister, within the framework of the future CAP, which we are working on. For this financial and technical support is an absolute imperative, I say: absolute. It requires that all difficulties be taken into account. Glyphosate is used by some farmers engaged in a process aimed at limiting deep tillage, which has a devastating effect, by destroying the life and structure of the soil, when it is practiced too frequently. This is the case for many farmers who are looking for ways to increase the organic content of their soil, particularly through so-called conservation agriculture. Add to this the significant additional costs of more frequent passages on plots, consumption of diesel and higher greenhouse gas emissions, heavier material loads, and more working time. However, other farmers work without glyphosate, and do not plow deeper. Conversely, others plow while using glyphosate. Our responsibility is therefore to strike a balance between, on the one hand, farm yields and added value that allow farmers to live from the fruits of their work, and, on the other hand, the preservation of human health and our ecosystems. This requirement obliges us to borrow a peak line, on which we must not retreat, but instead commit ourselves in a determined manner. Let us therefore be consistent: the agroecological transition cannot be reduced to communication and display. It requires real resources and strong public support. All the contrary, Minister, austerity policies in Europe as in France! Our political responsibility is thus engaged: in order to achieve this transition, we must protect our farmers from the harmful effects of free competition, desired by Brussels and encouraged by the Government. In your speech, Minister, you have obscured this essential question: this free competition is one of the causes of the failure of successive policies to reduce the use of plant protection products. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Making our production systems less dependent on plant protection products means excluding the agricultural sector and food from global competition by stopping the free trade agreements currently being ratified or negotiated. This is also the condition for a real increase in the range of all Community productions, a better food and environmental quality, and more added value for producers. Let us be consistent: if we ban glyphosate in France, as we would all like here, it seems, we must go to the end of the logic, by banning all imports of productions using glyphosate, in order not to increase the health and environmental dumpings that accompany today's opening up of the European agricultural market. And this goes a long way, since these are both directly imported crop productions, but also meats whose production cycle includes, via animal feed, the use of glyphosate. The transition to agro-ecology implies that, in the same movement, a halt is being made to the profit-making war waged by the major food and distribution groups. Let us stop procrastination: this war undermines all fair income bases for producers, based on purchase prices covering production costs, and undermines the transition to more virtuous practices. But the greatest political hypocrisy is revealed in the observation that France, a government after government, has not only accompanied the liberalisation of agricultural trade, but also supported the deregulation of commercial activities, thus favouring environmental dumping, whose use of glyphosate is a consequence among others. Ladies and gentlemen, as I say and repeat, our farmers are prepared to adapt if their work is properly paid, and if the harmonization of practices is carried out at European level, in order to prohibit untenable intra-Community social and health dumping. The ball is in the camp of the politicians, in the camp of this assembly, and in yours, minister. In this regard, the least we can say is that the Government is not only not taking on its responsibilities but is aggravating the situation. The latest example is the Order on Certificates of Conservation of Plant Protection Products, which proposes the abolition of the penalty on distributors who do not meet the number of certificates of their obligation. As my colleague Dominique Potier recently pointed out, as has also been pointed out by professional organisations, NGOs and scientific authorities, this measure, if finally adopted, will deprive the only binding mechanism to limit the use of plant protection products of its effectiveness. We have here a perfect illustration of the dual discourse, of this "at the same time" delivered by the Government and the majority in the field of the environment. The point is that nothing is being done at European level to make agroecology the productive model of the European Union, in the interests of both consumers, producers and the future of the planet. Nor is anything done to combat the weight of the powerful lobbies of agrochemistry at European level. Marx noted in Capital in 1867 that "every progress of capitalist agriculture is a progress not only in the art of exploiting the worker, but also in the art of stripping the soil; every progress in the art of increasing fertility for a time, a progress in ruining its sustainable sources of fertility. » Unfortunately, the situation has not changed much. In a society reduced to the whole market, the supposedly unsurpassable horizon of liberalism, the dependence of our farmers on multinationals in agrochemistry, the agri-food industry and distributors is a bottleneck that prepares very silent spring. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] It is, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this bottleneck that must be totally blown up. Let us make commitments today in the debate on the bill before us. Let us debate critically, with courage and without concealing anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u45	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u46	I am afraid that I do not have the verb of President Chassaigne to speak on behalf of the IDU Group, to act and to speak independently on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u47	False modesty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u48	No, it's a flash of lucidity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u49	You don't have the same references.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u50	Without being poetic or enthusiastic, I would like to point out that the La France group, through this bill, gives us the relevant opportunity to return to the subject of glyphosate, which has already been dealt with during the examination of the EGALIM law. This proposal for a law provides an opportunity to discuss this substance at length, at least controversial, or even dishonest, and, more broadly, to speak on behalf of my group on the use of plant protection products in France. We all share the vision and the desire for a more environmentally friendly, quality and fertile agriculture of our land, of the farmers, of course, who are working on it, and at last more respectful of the consumers who eat the fruit of it. It is an ardent obligation, an imperative necessity. We all agree that the role of agriculture is to feed the peoples of humanity and that, as such, it must have sufficient yield to meet the food needs of the entire planet. While plant protection products, in general, and glyphosate in particular, have so far been at the centre of the equation, with priority given to agricultural yields, we are gradually changing paradigms, too gradually in the eyes of some. I stress that this change is progressive: for, not to those who draw their references from the authors of the past century, it cannot be radical, except in speeches – it is true that we are used to speeches in our assembly. If glyphosate is a dangerous product for health, we all agree, and if it is to be banned, we need to be able to replace it with other products or techniques to ensure agricultural yields approaching current yields. It is not only the molecule of glyphosate contained in the 8000 tonnes of products that France uses every year, which we must be able to question, it is indeed all the 75000 tonnes of plant protection products – herbicides, fungicides, insecticides – that France consumes annually. We therefore need to broaden the debate in order to have an overall view of the dependence of our agriculture on plant health products and not to reduce it to a single media molecule. We're on our way. France and Europe are progressing too slowly, certainly, but they are progressing. As of January 1, 2017, local authorities, public institutions and the state can no longer use or cause pesticides to be used for the maintenance of their public domain. The ban on neonicotinoids came into force on 1 September 2018. Finally, the marketing and possession of non-professional plant protection products has been prohibited since 1 January 2019. Our successive governments have therefore not remained inactive and the current majority – I welcome it – has committed themselves to a massive reduction in the use of glyphosate within three years. The Government also relaunched the Ecophyto Plan in April 2018 to support a reduction in the use of plant protection products. However, we can highlight and regret the small financial amounts associated with this plan. Similarly, in New Caledonia, in the South Pacific, the subject is fully relevant, since the Government of our archipelago banned the use of glyphosate to individuals on 7 February. In contrast to the metropolis, in New Caledonia, 95 per cent of plant protection products are consumed by individuals, with only 5 per cent of agricultural use. Glyphosate consumption is split between agricultural use and private use. Given the challenges of food self-sufficiency, we have not yet found a sufficiently realistic alternative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u51	How did we do it before?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u52	It was prehistory. We used to make fire with flint. We may regret it, but we have since invented other ways. What is certain is that in New Caledonia, as in metropolitan France, it is not possible today to stop using a product on which farmers are totally dependent, without a transition phase, without proven techniques and substitutes. Now – that's the point of France's unsubmissive proposal, which we must salute...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u54	... and its limits, which we must stress – although I am going through your text, with sustained attention, or even with a benevolent eye, I see no transitional measures, no accompanying measures towards alternative techniques of working the land for farmers, no support measures for investment in equipment or conversion to permaculture, or new commercial opportunities, so that the outright shutdown threatens the economic balance, therefore the survival of the farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u55	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u56	Because these measures are not in the realm of the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u57	[[Mr. Sylvain Maillard applauds]] Finally, the verb is much more important than the survival of tens of thousands of French peasants. On the other hand, while existing tools do not allow for a brutal ban on the use of glyphosate, it is nevertheless possible – let us be realistic and responsible, in a little less demagogic – to reduce its uses and differentiate them. Our MODEM college, Nicolas Turquois, stressed this in committee: four uses of glyphosate remain without a credible solution today: the destruction of perennials, sloping agriculture, conservation agriculture and its use by the SNCF, the first legal person consuming glyphosate with 38 tons per year – let us remove not only agricultural farms but also trains: thus, the return to prehistory will be faster. We have to continue this work. On the other hand, the prohibition of glyphosate, therefore the necessary choice of agriculture different from intensive agriculture, must be sufficiently prepared so that it does not cause a decline in the competitiveness of French agricultural products. Our agriculture occupies a central place – the economic areas in which we occupy such a place are rare: it would be a shame to lose it. We are in the middle of an ocean of producing countries, which are far less ethical than we are: theirs is far less binding than ours. To this end, we must change our paradigm and work to create a true added value, both nutritional, qualitative and environmental, strong enough, of reasoned agriculture, to compensate for the decline in yields and to promote the commercial competitiveness of products from organic or reasoned agriculture, in the face of competition from products from intensive agriculture. Demand exists and local and global awareness is indisputable. We need to seize her. Responsible products from organic and reasonable agriculture are gradually finding their market in France. In the years to come, their share will be increasing. In addition to the creation of outlets for the new supply of organic agricultural products, consideration must also be given to strengthening the conditions for imports of agricultural products treated with massive quantities of plant protection products, without national vigils being present. Ladies and gentlemen, the elected members of the IUD, Action and Independent Group are well aware of the issues raised by the text and share them. However, as is often the case, this bill, armed with the best intentions, is poorly linked: it does not respond objectively to any of the realistic observations that I have been able to make. For this reason, I will abstain and the IDU Group, Action and Independents will vote mostly against its current wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u58	Mr Pascal Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u59	Today, there is no question of questioning the end of the use of glyphosate. The agricultural world knows perfectly well that this exit is inevitable. The decision is made. I am a farmer and wine grower of a Gironde agricultural district and a former business advisor to the Chamber of Agriculture from 1990 to 2000. Farmers have been able to change their practices, both in terms of public health and respect for the environment. They have assumed these changes with great lucidity, often at the cost of a large debt burden on their businesses. They diversify, adapt and seek new practices. The question of the peasant world is permanent: if the climate is changing, the market is also changing, both nationally and internationally. Agriculture can be seen as a heavy industry: equipment is expensive and difficult to profitable. Low farm incomes do not allow the financial consequences of new investments to be taken lightly. According to the Agricultural Social Mutuality, 19% of farms are in deficit in 2016 and the income of 20% of farmers does not exceed €4315 per year. Let us welcome with you, Mr Minister, the EGALIM law, of which our colleague Jean-Baptiste Moreau was the rapporteur: its entry into force, which is still recent, will improve the living conditions of farmers. I repeat, it's three years from now that the glyphosate will be released. These three years are necessary, as you yourself have pointed out, Madam rapporteur. As General de Gaulle had observed, one can always "jump on his chair like a cabre by saying", not, in this case, "Europe, Europe, Europe", but "a date, a date, a date", "but it does not come to anything". What is the purpose of setting a date without the means to respect it and without commitments? Parliament, in the 2019 Finance Bill, has provided for the testing of DEPHY farms and has increased the charge for diffuse pollution, in order to support the financing and development of organic farming. The Government has identified resources to meet our responsibilities: the appointment of a prefect coordinator and the establishment of a resource centre led by the chambers of agriculture and INRA. The chambers, through their networks of technicians, are engaged in a consultancy mission of co-construction and extension of practices alternatives to glyphosate according to a territorial approach. The quantities sold and used shall be monitored in order to ensure transparency of use. A further review by ANSES of all marketing authorisations for products containing glyphosate is requested, with a three-year deadline. A priority research programme on the release of glyphosate is launched by the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u60	So everything is fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u61	Like my colleague Célia de Lavergne, I trust farmers, who are themselves exposed to the risks of their own practices – as has been said on several occasions – to succeed in this technical revolution on their farms. The three years that separate us from the statutory deadline will be more than necessary. I recall that a parliamentary fact-finding mission, which was discussed earlier, has been working on this subject since September 2018. Allow me to greet you, ladies and gentlemen, for your work. This fact-finding mission, unique in France and Europe, will make a progress report before the summer. I said earlier that agriculture is like industry in terms of investment. But the similarity ends there. The industry produces and assembles on chains all year round; it can change its production processes to the envi, and the result is immediate. However, agriculture is subject to annual production cycles; It must anticipate and wait for the good season to test and validate new techniques or practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u63	In agriculture, the practice of experimentation is real, even if it is also nature that decides. Is it useful to recall that French agriculture is evolving in a global environment that allows it to sell its production? Is it worth recalling that our agri-food trade balance was in excess of €6.9 billion in 2018?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u64	And we're proud of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u65	Should we recall that distortions of competition already benefit some imported agri-food products? To remain competitive, French agriculture cannot afford the luxury of being subjected to production rules in light years from its competitors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Give agriculture the time that the law gives it today! It needs it in order to organize itself and continue the permanent revolution it has been experiencing for thirty years, which has enabled it to become the first agricultural leader in the field of food security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u66	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u67	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u68	Cheap and efficient, glyphosate has permeated our soils for more than forty years. Its consumption is exponential. In 2014, 825,000 tonnes of glyphosate were released into the world, a twelve-fold increase in ten years. Unfortunately, French agriculture is not left behind: addicted to glyphosate, it uses an average of 7000 tonnes per year. This substance is one of the most sold, with sulphur. Yet, for several years now, the image of the product has deteriorated. Accused of being probably carcinogenic by the WHO International Cancer Research Centre, now four years ago, the Monsanto Roundup is on the saddle. This can be understood when it is known that glyphosate increases the risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma by more than 40%. In France, in 2011, 11600 new cases of these lymphomas were recorded by the National Cancer Institute. But it is simply detestable to suggest that farmers are bad polluters who care about the environment and knowingly poison their fellow citizens. As is often the case, those who drink are those who have no choice and use these products to work. For them, it is the double penalty: not only are they exposed all day to these harmful molecules, but nobody really bothers to bring them concrete solutions to stop using these harmful products. The Government has recognized this: for 10 per cent of farmers, there is no alternative to glyphosate, no plan B. In my house, in Biterrois, believe that farmers and wine growers would be delighted to be able to work without these polluting products. But it's so easy to give lessons! A winemaker near Béziers, sensitive to the discourse calling for soil protection, chose to dispense with glyphosate; This year, it experienced an 80% drop in production as its harvest was ravaged by mildew. Emmanuel Macron himself is very embarrassed: he had to announce that the ban on glyphosate in three years for farmers would be accompanied by exceptions for those who cannot do without it. In order not to seem to be left behind, the Ministry of Agriculture thought it was good to make it known that it was putting in place a real plan to help the agricultural world get out of the glyphosate. The press release of February 1 was almost dreaming. It read: "Glyphosate Release Plan: The Resource Centre, which was launched today, provides practical solutions to farmers." I thought something was going to happen... but no! As often, it was a false joy: the resource center is limited to a small video about the different tools for the destruction of meadows and to a small word about thermal weeding, being specified that the process is extremely expensive. In short, there's nothing to reassure our farmers! Fortunately, everything is not lost. This week's news is most encouraging: while it was difficult to imagine a world without Roundup, it is now possible to think that a world without Monsanto is possible. This is what we learn from the studies undertaken by Professor Klaus Brilisauer, a researcher at the University of Tübingen, Germany, and his discovery of a new molecule of sugar, 7-deoxy-sedoheptulose or "7dSh". It comes from a freshwater seaweed, and is all that is most natural and, apparently, most effective. Green version of glyphosate, it inhibits plant growth by depriving them of amino acids, which naturally kills weeds due to nutritional deficiency. Its effectiveness seems formidable, equivalent to the chemical active substance of Monsanto, and enables effective control of weeds and other microorganisms. According to the researchers, even at low concentrations, its effect is as powerful as that of glyphosate. Moreover, this natural molecule has excellent degradability and no ecotoxic risk. We see excellent reasons for using it as a herbicide. So maybe that's the good news we've been waiting for so long. There is one question that I am constantly repeating in this House: what is the point of banning glyphosate in our home if we continue to import massively agricultural products processed in full cultivation with glyphosate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u70	... as is the case for 98% of the soy we consume and which comes from America or for Spanish wines from vines treated with plant protection products banned in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u72	These imports are hypocritical to our farmers, misleading to consumers and dangerous to all. [[Mr Bruno Millienne and Mr Philippe Vigier applaud. – Exclaims on several benches of the FI group]] Voting this bill as it stands would be simplistic, reducing and even demagogic. Our farmers really deserve better than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u73	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u74	This bill, which includes a single article, aims to prohibit the use of plant protection products containing the active substance of glyphosate on French territory from 27 November 2020. On the form, this bill has been placed on the agenda of our assembly when we have already discussed this issue at length. I would point out that this text was tabled by the group La France insoumée, of which only one Member was present at the time of the vote in September 2018. This Member was not even our rapporteur, who said this morning on a large national channel that in the debate on glyphosate, which was obviously important to him, she preferred Morpheus's arms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u75	Yeah, so what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u76	I am therefore very pleased to be able to give an update on the situation to Members of the La France group who were not present – in other words, to the whole group. Before introducing a proposal for a law on the subject of glyphosate, is it not the right method to start by listening to the first concerned, whose profession, often practiced for generations, is to try to cultivate good products while respecting as much as possible the quality of the soil and the environment? This is in any case the method of Members of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u77	How modest!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u78	Once we have confidence in our method, some will ask us why we refuse to include the prohibition of glyphosate in the law. First of all, we will always prefer the contract of trust to the legislative constraint.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u79	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u80	In the framework of the EGALIM law, we have concluded a solution contract with French farmers, in all their diversity, to accompany them in the change of certain practices. They are not against change, but against the ultimatum decreed by those who have not even gone to their fields or farms to see how they work. Then we take into account the human dimension. Some farms need time and support. Fixing an ultimatum is therefore not a modern method on agricultural subjects. More generally, the debate on glyphosate does not concern the prohibition or non-prohibition of glyphosate in three years' time, as this objective is obviously carried by the majority and the Government, but only on its inclusion in the law. France's determination and strong position have significantly reduced the duration of the authorisation initially proposed by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u81	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u82	The President of the Republic wished to engage France in an ambitious and pragmatic approach, which mobilises all the means to get out of glyphosate in three years. We in the majority are therefore convinced that it is by working hand with the agricultural world, by making the sectors more responsible, by mobilising research and by developing alternatives that we can achieve the objective set. It is by listening to the agricultural world that one becomes an ambassador of rural life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u84	Since the review of the EGALIM bill, many concrete actions have been launched as part of a plan to exit the glyphosate, which is structured around several points: a resource centre accessible to all, the strengthening of accompanying measures to disseminate solutions and find alternatives, the mobilization of territorial networks of chambers of agriculture and agricultural education to promote these alternatives. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, parliamentarians of the majority are mobilizing. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you straight away: we are neither pessimistic nor optimistic, but determined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u85	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u86	There's no point in shaking around his seat by saying, "No to glyphosate, no to glyphosate! " It is much more useful to visit farms and discuss with agricultural representatives. A fact-finding mission on the follow-up of the strategy for the release of glyphosate, requested by the group La République en marche, has therefore been set up. This fact-finding mission, including the excellent Jean-Baptiste Moreau, Jean-Luc Fugit and Julien Dive are respectively the co-rapporteurs and the president, is continuing its work, which must complete the collective reflection and follow as closely as possible the gradual exit of the use of glyphosate. If the release of glyphosate in three years and, more generally, the reduction of the use of plant protection products are shared objectives, the inclusion in the law is clearly not the solution. The actual release of glyphosate will be done by mobilizing research and technical institutes, as well as by standing with professionals in the agricultural world. That is what we are doing, and that is why the La République on the move is opposed to this bill by the La France group. Beyond the issue of glyphosate, the EGALIM Bill has, among other things, put into practice some of the strong commitments of the President of the Republic. I am thinking of the separation of sales and advice, the prohibition of discounts, rebates and rebates, or the development of good practice charters for the application of plant protection products. We are acting and will continue to act, guided solely by the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Bruno Millienne also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the La France group, we do not make any policy other than on realities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u87	It's good to hear a Member of Parliament who knows his subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u88	The general discussion is closed. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u89	For you, Minister, we play small arms by banning only glyphosate. But you know that we have developed an agricultural and food project of general interest,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u90	You had to put it on the table!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u91	... which develops our vision of agriculture and does not serve the interests of the chemical industries. Several amendments are intended to extend this bill to other molecules, but they will not be considered since the majority group has tabled a motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u92	Let's go for victimization!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u93	We want to ban the use of plant protection products containing the active substance of glyphosate. You also said, Minister, that France would be the first country to ban glyphosate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u94	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u95	Sri Lanka has already banned this molecule because of the kidney diseases it caused.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u96	It's not a total ban!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u97	It is true that some crops benefit from derogations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u98	The use of glyphosate has therefore been restored!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u99	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In France, one in five farmers suffers from health problems directly related to the use of pesticides: this leads us to question ourselves. [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] By choosing not to abstain, Germany has allowed the glyphosate to be reauthorised for five years, so it will not be banned, as you pointed out, Minister. In five years' time there will be a new debate which, hopefully, will be more informed: the report on which Members of the European Parliament based themselves was a copy and paste of the argument of the Monsanto firm, which has since been bought by Bayer. The debate should therefore resume, since MEPs have not been informed in their choice, since the report is not independent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u100	They've been deceived!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u101	As far as imports are concerned, we cannot expose our farmers and farmers to unfair competition. Unless I am mistaken, there is a safeguard clause related to the precautionary principle, which was discussed earlier: it can be used to prohibit the import of fruit and vegetables containing pesticides, as illustrated by the example of the Turkish cherries treated with dimethoate. Therefore, the law solves this problem. With regard to competition from our farmers, we have learned that the free trade treaty will be renegotiated. Last year, however, farmers at the agricultural trade fair were not in favour of these free trade treaties and had expressed disagreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u102	We have to meet them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u103	We met them...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u104	Listen to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u105	I went to see them at the farm show! In addition, I come from Ariège: farmers are nearby!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u106	Let the rapporteur speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. I want you to have a discussion between yourself, but the framework is not suitable for dialogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u108	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to glyphosate, Canada has raised concerns about a possible ban on glyphosate in Europe: we are wondering! How can we defend our farmers when you support the free trade treaty model – TAFTA, CETA, JEFTA and other Mercosur? Some have said that we point the finger at farmers, when we know that a farmer commits suicide every two days and that one in five farmers falls ill. We therefore consider that the problem lies in this model, which causes the mal-being of the peasants, caught up in debt and in work that is not properly remunerated. All this is linked to the free trade treaties. Mr Julien Dive, you asked whether we were able to say that, thanks to the adoption of this text, no one would find traces of glyphosate in what he ingurgates. Not in the immediate future, indeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u109	And in three years?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u110	If we don't do anything, what will happen? Do you think there'll be less? If we don't ban it, do you think people won't ingurgitate it anymore?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u111	It's already forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u112	To include the prohibition in the law is to fulfil the promise of the President of the Republic, quite simply! With some parliamentarians, including some of the majority, we conducted Wednesday morning analyses to determine if we have glyphosate in our body; We'll see the results. Associations such as Glyphosate Campaign are in the process of recording the rate of glyphosate in different people's urine. They are carrying out a serious study: this must be taken into account. Mr Turquois, you and several of your colleagues have stated that the date for the prohibition of glyphosate would be 1 January 2021. We wonder about the relevance of this date, because the President of the Republic, in a tweet of 27 November 2017, said that the ban would take place within three years: this leads us to 27 November 2020, hence our proposal. We do not ask for an immediate ban, as I have heard: we have only resumed the commitment of the President of the Republic. On the other hand, you said that there was no solution for certain cultures. So you can't agree with the ban in three years! If some cultures can't do without glyphosate, don't say you agree with the release of glyphosate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u113	We'll find an alternative in three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u114	You have to trust science!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u115	[[Smile]] Mr. Gomès, I found you a little caricatural when you talked about flint! It could be funny if you did not assert that it is impossible to stop the use of glyphosate in New Caledonia. Do you propose to the inhabitants of New Caledonia the same health scandal as chlordecone in the West Indies? Is that your proposal? SNCF, which accounts for 0.4% of the national consumption of glyphosate, is actually affected by this molecule. We recall in our report that it has divided by three in 20 years the quantities of plant protection products used. This is certainly not enough, but the approach is initiated: application chosen outside protected areas, distance from water points and inhabited areas, 5% increase in tolerance on vegetation height, etc. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, with regard to protected areas, I would like to point out that you have rejected the amendment tabled by our group to prohibit the use of pesticides in a 200-metre strip around public places and schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u116	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u117	This is the sixth time we've had this debate in eight months: I feel like I'm in a movie I love, An Endless Day, in which Bill Muray lives forever the same day. It is true that there is something different happening every day, and I note that the arguments of each other are refined as these discussions resume, again and again, whether in the Committee on Economic Affairs or in this House. For my part, I find that these are both too many times: we may not agree but, since this law was discussed in this House, some continue to speak, while others have started to work, including here, under your leadership, Mr Minister, but also under the impetus of the Members already mentioned – MM. Dive, Moreau and Fugit, among others. All channels mobilized and understood that the release of glyphosate was inevitable. I think they didn't understand it well before, but now everyone is mobilizing in that direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u118	That's not true! They're asking for derogations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u119	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Today, we are not in An Endless Day but in a comic book of Asterix! We're in "Asterix and glyphosate"! The whole world is a victim of the Roman legions of Bayer and Monsanto and we, while we are setting an example, we are arguing, we are discussing, we are debating whether the fish is fresh or not fresh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u120	And you're burning up the bard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u121	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The only difference with the comic books of Asterix, Mr. Prud'homme, is that, to replace the glyphosate, there is no magic potion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u122	There are alternatives!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u123	Some people think, and you are part of it, that the law would be that magic potion, that we could vote a law-couperet, that we would spend months discussing exceptions – because it will be necessary, do you mind! Instead of continuing to work to get out of it, we will discuss the exceptions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u124	Exceptions, when you can't get out of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u125	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Prud'homme, join us! Work with your farmers on the ground! Work with the research centers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u126	And what do you think I'm doing, Mr. Lescure?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u127	Work with us to make sure we have the budgets to finance the transition! Put pressure on Bercy! Work with us! Let's bend our elbows! Let's work together to make France lead by example! France today plays a unique role. You talked about El Salvador and Sri Lanka: they're back on the ban on glyphosate! Let's work together so that France shows the example, shows the way out of the glyphosate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u128	That's not the right way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u129	... as was done by the President of the Republic when he convinced his twenty-seven colleagues not to wait five or ten years, committing himself to get out of it in three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u130	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u131	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u132	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] It's a good thing, Mr. Prud'homme: in three years, we'll be in 2022, on the eve of the agricultural fair. So let's do as in all the good comic books of Asterix: in three years, let's organize a good chisel at the agricultural fair to celebrate together the fact that France will be out of the glyphosate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u133	Great idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u134	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u135	First of all, I would like to welcome the quality of the debate that has been taking place since this morning. I also welcome Mrs Taurine for her convictions, her explanations and her willingness to move the debate forward. On the substance, we all agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u136	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u137	[["But no! » on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We need to get out of the glyphosate. But using this debate to polemic and make political politics is not up to the stakes! As no one does here, no one feels concerned, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u138	Don't caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u139	No, Mr. Prud'homme, I never caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u140	Yes, a little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u141	You're a specialist in the field! To get out of glyphosate, to get out of plant protection products, we will not succeed with this model – I share your point of view, Mr Prud'homme!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u142	Then change your model!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u143	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is precisely why Emmanuel Macron's presidential programme and the majority's programme propose to change the model: the ecological transition is what this majority wants to do in practice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u144	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u145	They're not incantations, they're actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u146	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u147	It is not a question of endless debate on the stage, but of moving forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u148	So why don't you pay the aid for the maintenance of organic farming?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u149	I answered you this morning! You can still refuse to believe reality, but I want to remind you of the numbers. We create a resource centre with several institutes to help change the model: it exists, you don't believe it! We spend 71 million euros on research for alternative and non-chemical products: you don't believe it! We support investment with CAPE, plans for the competitiveness and adaptation of farms, to the tune of 500 million euros of public aid: you don't believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u150	And the support for the maintenance of the bio, do you intend to pay them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u151	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are committed to spending 540 million until 2022 on risk-taking in agri-environmental measures: you don't believe it! We're planning $1.1 billion for bio: you don't believe it – and the list is still long! Then come with us; Be beautiful players! Let's work together on this movement and the transition: that's how we will do it! [["We will be there! »on the benches of the FI group]] Let's all meet at the agricultural fair for ten days: let's go to the stands, let's go to the fields! Perfect! Let's go see the tracks and look at the ones that work – there's a lot of them! Let's look at those that don't work and talk to professionals about what needs to be done to achieve the transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u152	Start by paying the aid to maintain the bio!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u153	Farmers don't put plant protection products in the soil for fun!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u154	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u155	Sometimes some are forced to do so while others are mutating: the transformation of agriculture is real! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Mr Ratenon, you rightly mentioned the problem of imports. If France were to leave glyphosate today – we will do so in 2021 – it would import products containing glyphosate: this is not what the French want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u157	That is why, like Mrs Battistel, and President Chassaigne, who made an excellent intervention, we want to include the agro-ecological transition in the CAP 2020. You may not believe it, but we will! In addition, President Chassaigne and Julien Dive, president of the information mission, have mentioned this subject, we will change our model. We must stop ploughing hectares of fields, let them run out and prevent them from storing carbon. That's all we want to do! At the request of the President of the Republic, we will put in place a great plan for plant protein autonomy in Europe: you do not believe it, but we will! Thankfully, let us move forward on the positive points.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u158	And let's ignore the negative points?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u159	That is important, because that is what farmers are asking us to do. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Several of you, including Ms Battistel and Mr Chassaigne, have raised the question of the CEPP. We have not gone back at all: it is simply a matter of preventing the farmer from paying the fine once again. You all called him back, a peasant commits suicide every other day. His monthly income is around 400 euros, and we still want to overwhelm him with penalties, when he's not the culprit? If he uses plant protection products, he's used to it, and that's what we want to change. That is why we have removed this penalty, and I claim it. On the other hand, the approval of the distribution of plant protection products is now conditional on obtaining a CEPP, because what matters is not to type down, it is to type up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u160	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u161	That is what this Government is doing. We therefore agree, President Chassaigne: thank you! Mr Colombani, I have heard your comments on the territorial specificity of the use of plant protection products, but it is not just glyphosate in life: that is what this majority and this government mean here. Glyphosate is only a momentary symbol. On this point, we are moving forward...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u162	Back up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u163	... and, in accordance with the precautionary principle and in order to protect the health of the French, we will prohibit it on 1 January 2021, but it is the dependence of all plant protection products that must be removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u165	That is what we must commit ourselves to, and from that I will be an untiring activist! [[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Célia de Lavergne, you represent a magnificent department where to live is a pure happiness and which is at the heart of the agro-ecological transition and organic farming. You were right to mention the fact-finding mission on glyphosate and the ecophyto plans, which I think you were the only one to mention. These do not fully satisfy me in the place where I am. Of course, they have been a step forward to which all Governments have contributed. The implementation of the Ecophyto II+ plan has begun, but we need to go further. This is what you are working on with the majority as a whole and, beyond that, with all those who are interested in agriculture. We need to go further in reducing the use of ecophyto products, but you were right to repeat it: we are not doing anything! You were right to mention conservation agriculture, Mr. Dive. From this point of view, the agroecological transition is a boon, and you invited Mrs. Taurine to come and see it at your place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u166	We didn't wait for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u167	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I don't know if she'll accept your invitation, but in her place, I'd like to see the good practices of many farmers who play the game on the ground. Mr Turquois, you have asked that we trust the agricultural sectors. However, all the sector plans put in place in accordance with the recommendations of the general states of food, which you have launched, and of the EGALIM law, contain, in accordance with the request of the President of the Republic, the commitment to get out of the dependence on plant protection products, in particular glyphosate. This is how we will succeed: not with big sentences, big flights, but with the practice specific to each sector, because to practice irrigated agriculture or dry mountain farming, it is not the same, the big cereal crops or arboriculture, it is not the same. There cannot be a single answer, because there is not only agriculture in France. You are right, Mr. Turquois, the 2021 horizon is a realistic goal. As you said, we all agree on the substance, only the methods differ. You mentioned farmers' income, Mr. President Chassaigne. This is precisely the subject of the EGALIM law and the ongoing trade negotiations. You quoted Marx, I will answer with a word from Jaurès: "Go to the ideal and understand the real". I know you understand the real. Our ideal is to get out of the glyphosate; the real thing is to do it pragmatically, without slowing down on the line, and that's what we're going to do. You are proposing, Mr Gomès, to replace glyphosate with another product, but if we replace a chemical molecule with another chemical molecule, we will not understand anything and we will have missed everything! What we need to change is the methods, and I am a forceful biocontrol activist, and I urge you to look at everything that is done in this area: you will realize that, too, things are moving fast. How right you are to talk about DEPHY, Mr. Lavergne! How can we say that nothing happens when 3000 farms are engaged in the transition and no longer use glyphosate? The target is 30,000 farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u168	Of 400,000, it's not heavy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u169	You have included resources in the budget for these farms and, following a request addressed to me here, the department's departments have allocated three additional positions to the Bio Agency to support this very important initiative. You're right, Mrs Ménard, you're sick of it: you're tired of hearing the peasants be treated as polluters and poisoners.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u170	That's not what we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u171	Cartoon! Downstairs demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u172	"Produce! Debt yourself to buy inputs and large tractors", this is what was said to the French peasants in the aftermath of World War II, because everyone had to be fed, and they did! And now we tell them we have to do something different!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u173	Just like diesel!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u174	Well, this transition, we're going to start it, but we didn't wait for you to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u175	That's not what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u176	She started a long time ago! I know, Mrs Ménard, that in your beautiful region of Biterrois, many farmers are involved in the agro-ecological transition, and that is so much better! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You mentioned the import problem. I will tell you what I said to Mr Chassaigne: if we simply ban glyphosate in France without harmonisation at European level, we will not get away with it. Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau, I fully agree with what you said about the trust agreement and the solution agreement. Trust is essential. If we want people to move, we need them to want to. Come to the agriculture fair to see how much agriculture has evolved since last year on this subject, as it evolves from year to year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u177	It's all year long that we're interested in agriculture, not just during the show!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u178	You mentioned the removal of the 3Rs: discounts, discounts, rebates. She had a debate in the agricultural profession, but we had come to the conclusion that they were a real handicap for the farmer. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we all share the same objective, even if we do not agree on how to achieve it. What matters is that France is the first country in the world to free itself from dependence on plant protection products and to get out of glyphosate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u179	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u180	All the honors! Thank you so much! Madam rapporteur, with this bill, you wish to include in the law the prohibition of glyphosate. I will not surprise you by saying that I do not agree with this proposal: I had already opposed it six months ago as rapporteur of the law on the general states of food. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] The majority did not wait for your sudden interest in banning glyphosate to take on its responsibilities. The gradual cessation of the use of the most dangerous plant protection products was already included in Emmanuel Macron's programme for the presidential campaign and in the one we defended in the general elections. The ban on glyphosate was decided: a little over a year ago, the President of the Republic made a commitment to put an end to the use of glyphosate by 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u181	He said he didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u182	It is out of the question to go back to that. The solution will not necessarily be the use of another molecule; It is first and foremost through a change in cultural practices that we will emerge from the glyphosate. But this change cannot take place overnight. We cannot impose such an upheaval on a long-standing profession. It is together, hand in hand with the peasants, that we will move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u184	In concrete terms, our majority has already taken strong steps to reduce the use of plant protection products and the transition of our agriculture with, in particular, within the framework of the draft law on agriculture and food, the principle of the separation of the sale and the council of plant protection products – the order must be published before 30 April 2019 –; the prohibition of discounts, rebates and rebates on the sale of plant protection products; the definition of the 15% useful agricultural area target for organic farming; the extension of the ban on neonicotinoids to all molecules with the same mode of action, i.e. to attack the central nervous system of insects; setting a target of 20% of organic products among 50% of local products and under official quality signs in collective catering by 2022. As part of the latest finance bill, we have committed additional funding for the testing of DEPHY farms that reduce the use of plant protection products, and voted to increase the rates of the diffuse pollution levy, RPD, which will finance the development of organic farming. This increase is notably 50% for glyphosate and all products containing glyphosate. Four ministries are mobilized for the exit of glyphosate: the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. The Government has made resources commensurate with our responsibilities and has made a number of commitments to accompany the strategy of exiting glyphosate by 2021, in particular with regard to the establishment of a resource centre led by the chambers of agriculture, ACTA and INRA, accessible to the entire agricultural profession and dedicated to alternatives to glyphosate, which aims to propose concrete solutions to farmers according to a territorial approach; strengthening accompanying measures to disseminate solutions and find alternatives and monitoring of the quantities sold and used in order to make their use transparent. ANSES also flattened all marketing authorisations for products containing glyphosate to 2021. A priority research programme on the release of glyphosate and the reduction of plant protection products will be developed by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Everyone will be involved in getting out of the glyphosate: the regions, the Agence française de la biodiversité, water agencies, local authorities and groups of agricultural professionals. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] To quote from someone who is familiar with you, dear colleagues in France who is insoubted, namely Lenin, "trust does not exclude control". It is for this reason that we have set up a joint fact-finding mission on the follow-up of the strategy of exit of the glyphosate, chaired by Julien Dive, of which Jean-Luc Fugit and I are the co-rapporteurs. I salute the attendance of Loïc Prud'homme, who is present at each hearing, and his full involvement in the work of the mission. I recall that the work of this fact-finding mission began on 27 September 2018. After the joint hearing of the ministers Didier Guillaume and François de Rugy, the mission heard in particular the president of INRA, representatives of the Institut national de recherche en sciences et technologies pour l'environnement et l'agriculture, IRSTEA, the president of the Association des chambres d'agriculture de France APCA and the prefect Bisch, who was appointed in November interministerial coordinator of the plan for the release of glyphosate and the plan for the reduction of the use of plant protection products. The prefect is also responsible for assessing the support needed to exit the glyphosate: he is the coordinator of all the ministerial actions and presides over the destinies of the latask force. Our mission is to monitor and evaluate the glyphosate exit strategy and the implementation of the Ecophyto II+ plan over three years. I invite all those interested in this subject to attend these hearings, in particular the next one to be held on 7 March, that of Brune Poirson, who has worked hard to convince our European partners not to renew the authorisation of glyphosate beyond five years instead of the fifteen years desired by most European countries. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a little height and put yourself in the place of the other European countries: in 2017, France, a large agricultural country, is the first to campaign for a renewal of the authorisation limited to five years instead of fifteen. It then manages to convince seven European partners to vote against renewal, i.e. to do what you are asking for today by this bill at European level! The representatives of France had the courage to defend a bold position where the real difficulty lies: to come out together from the glyphosate. Have you wondered what other countries in the world think, especially those in Latin America? Their practices are considerably more dangerous than ours: they spray their GMO cultures with glyphosate when, in France, we use it only in interculture. We are working with INRA and ACTA to further restrict the use of glyphosate to progressively end all uses of the molecule. Our method is light years away from the world's agricultural practices, which I strongly condemn. We are at the cutting edge of technology and ambition. I am proud that this is France's path and you will also welcome it in three years' time. I thank the rapporteur for her work, which highlights the different positions of the Member States and the need to creditize the scientific words of the experts. The accusations of conflicts of interest between the European Food Safety Authority and the Monsanto industry group have undermined scientific speech. This scandal shows that we need a truly independent agency, following the model of the French ANSES, which ensures strict control of products at European level. Our health deserves transparency: that is why we need truly independent and coordinated studies. France's words are essential: thanks to the determination and commitment of the President of the Republic, we have managed to reduce to five years instead of fifteen the period of renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate at European level, but we still have to convince our neighbours to go further. Coordination is essential in order to provide a comprehensive response to the reduction in the use of plant protection products. In the name of the precautionary principle, glyphosate must be banned, and we will do it together in a coordinated and intelligent manner. It is the peasants who are the main exposés and the first victims. Since 2012, all those who, among them, handle plant protection products must be equipped with standard protective equipment for all plant protection products. Sprayers are checked every four years, each farmer must keep a health log in which he records his practices, the products and the quantities used. The law of the jungle therefore does not apply in this respect: the use of plant protection products is already very strictly regulated and controlled. Since January 1, 2017, their use, including that of glyphosate, has been prohibited for public authorities, and since January 1, 2019 for individuals. The transition is therefore under way. Within three years, this will be done for the vast majority of cultures, we are convinced. If we see that use does not diminish and that awareness does not occur, we will not prevent us from eventually including the prohibition of glyphosate in the law. However, this time has not yet come, and that is why we are proposing this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u185	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u186	Today, it is the time of research: we need to make the state of the art, sector by sector, culture by culture, to determine those in which we can already dispense with glyphosate and those which a brutal ban would put in difficulty. Today, it is important to convince our European partners to fight with us in order to conduct coordinated research in Europe within the framework of synergy between research institutes and with real impetus from the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the European Commission – the European Parliament has just adopted a report recommending a recast of the pesticide assessment system in order to obtain more transparency from more independent European agencies and a strict application of the precautionary principle. This is the first step before a radical and dogmatic ban like the one you propose. Madam rapporteur, you yourself feel in your report that the three-year period is sufficient to accompany farmers in the agroecological transition and to find alternatives to glyphosate for the remaining uses. We, as Members of the majority, are convinced that in three years' time we will have found solutions for the vast majority of cultures; In three years, we will ban glyphosate and we do not need an ideological law for it. Let us therefore allow ourselves time to work and accompany together farmers and professionals in the agricultural world towards the end of the use of glyphosate. I therefore ask you to vote on this motion for referral back to committee as widely as possible. Don't you dare us to deny democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u187	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u188	This bill contains only one article, and the general discussion over two and a half hours that has just taken place has largely informed the national representation on these issues, not to mention our discussions during the review of the law emanating from the general states of food. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We maintain the possibility of including this prohibition in the law, but not now, and not in this way. We prefer trust in the agricultural world and collective, pragmatic work to put an end to the use of glyphosate by 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u189	Excellent! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u190	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u191	As has been said this morning, no one is fooled: this motion to refer to committee is in fact a disguised prior rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u192	That did not prevent the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u193	It could have taken place with the discussion of the amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u194	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u195	... some of which were very interesting – our colleagues have tabled a lot of them. The debate was therefore truncated. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For my part, I still have not understood: since everyone agrees to stop the use of glyphosate in three years' time, why refuse to include it in the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u196	Green beans!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u197	[[Smile]] Green beans, we'll see later! Three years without national legislation, five years at European level! You make it look like Europe will suddenly ban glyphosate, but it's making fun of the world! We are in favour of a change of model. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] No, Mr. Moreau, our interest is not sudden: we have been working on this issue for years. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You told us that our objective was pure communication; I, for my part, salute your well-oiled talents of communicating: the absence of legislative decision-making is transformed into trust, parliamentary work into legislative constraint, inaction into pragmatism. That is why the debate is becoming very complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u198	On the motion to refer the matter back to committee, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, Mrs Sabine Rubin spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u199	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This explanation of vote, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is addressed to my colleagues in the majority. You have the unfortunate habit of legitimizing your measures and laws through their inclusion in Mr. Macron's program. Why therefore refuse to put in law the presidential commitment to ban glyphosate on 27 November 2020? Wouldn't you trust the President's words? You are right, because democracy is not based on trust given to a single man, but on Parliament, which represents the people. Precisely, this people is asking you, at 89%, for a law prohibiting glyphosate. Will you also go against his will? He's used to it and, now, the certainty. Trust or not in the President? No trust in the people? You prefer to trust farmers, you say.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u200	No, ma'am! They need confidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u201	Precisely, farmers need the determination of the state and a legislative guarantee to be protected not only from this poison but also accompanied. Moreover, if the human being invented glyphosate, he can find a way out of it, while, with your logic, we would still be in the stone age! The truth is, the different measures you boast about getting out of the glyphosate are far too timid to allow you to give a date. The truth is that you are not at all up to the environmental challenges: we are talking about the destruction of biodiversity, a quantified destruction, visible, we are talking about human health, we are talking about cancers. Of two things one: either you are cold because you do not trust the President, not trust in the people, not trust in the farmers; either you are for reasons that I will not detail here...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u202	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u203	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...but they don't trust us at all. This is your inconsequence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u204	[[Smile]] Guillaume and the magic bean!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u205	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u206	I know that "love lasts three years", but sometimes we feel like we live an endless day: for how long will we continue to say "in three years"? I would like to ask the question, since we have been saying that for a few months now. In addition, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you make sure that things have been decided. Therefore, we will not cease to ask you why we do not include this prohibition in the law? Why don't we start the discussion on this text in order to write a common scenario with the peasant world until the end that, it seems, we all wish? It is therefore a question of getting out of glyphosate and dependence on plant protection products by inventing together the agriculture of tomorrow, respectful of man and the planet. Sending this bill back to committee instead of getting into the heart of the matter and in the detail of what needs to be implemented is evacuating an urgent debate, which meets a strong expectation. We do not think that it is useful to deprive our fellow citizens of a further in-depth debate on this issue: financial and technical accompanying measures must be discussed in order to get out of the glyphosate, to organise a dynamic of the transition. We regret that we cannot go any further in the concrete measures to get out of environmental dumping – at the national and European levels – to which the free trade treaties encourage. On this issue, we deeply regret the Government's decline. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore not vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u207	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u208	The Liberties and Territories Group will also vote against the motion for referral to committee tabled by The Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u209	There's a democrat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u210	The reason is simple: we are committed to the debate. The chairman of the committee said himself that this is the sixth time that we have talked about this subject and that the arguments have been refined over time. It is therefore good and good that cross-cutting, therefore important, issues can be discussed. While the big debate is taking place, how is it that Parliament votes a referral to committee when we can continue to exchange and argue contradictory arguments? I believe in the strength of the parliamentary debate. Moreover, as the minister said very well, who wants to continue to use glyphosate beyond five years? No one! Everyone knows that the transition must take place, but, as the minister also said, competition from European countries is there. Yes or no, do we have the right to put our French farmers in trouble? Even more, when I was a young Member of the majority, a member of the Finance Committee, who was interested in health control – Éric Alauzet had followed me – I had the courage to go to Le Havre to open containers containing certain products from Europe. I was able to verify that, when they had crossed the doors of the European Union, nothing could be done. At that time, I made recommendations for food quality to be at the meeting. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The five-year perspective is drawn. The Minister recalled all the steps that have been taken. It is good that we can benefit from a step-by-step assessment, because we must finally get out of the glyphosate. Do not give us a good conscience by saying that our fight will be over in three years: we all know, if we are honest and responsible, that we will not be able to achieve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u212	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u213	[[Smile]] I haven't changed my mind in a while. The majority will vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee, but, as I said, we do not forbid the prohibition of glyphosate in the law if we find that the situation is not changing fast enough. Today, many concrete things have been done to get out of it, but, indeed, we trust the peasant world – it is a big difference with you – because, throughout the centuries, it has always adapted to what has been asked of it, to what the people, the consumers have asked of it; It has always met expectations with pragmatism, and this will be the case again, I am sure. On 1 January 2021 – that is, not in three years, but in no more than two years – the use of glyphosate will be prohibited for the majority of uses: it is clear, clear and precise. A referral to committee is therefore necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the eve of the opening of the agriculture fair, where our agriculture will demonstrate the excellence of its productions, we trust the agricultural world to get out of the glyphosate and to organize a transition to agroecology. The agricultural world has already become aware of all this. I invite you to discuss with farmers this week and you will see that their proposals have nothing to do with the caricature that is sometimes made of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u214	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u215	[[Smile]] I put on my boots, Minister! [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Dear colleagues of La France: what you propose on the eve of the opening of the agricultural fair is provocation and, almost, agri-bashing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u216	Do you know that farmers are following us?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u217	The debate you are proposing does not even concern the prohibition of glyphosate in three years' time, but only the advisability of including it in the law. As usual, therefore, it is a demagogic will to display and not a public health imperative, as you claim. [[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] For, as we have seen in the past, when it comes to plant protection products, putting an objective in the law is not necessarily a guarantee of efficiency: ask betteraviers, producers of cherries, tomatoes! To the MODEM and related group, we prefer to concentrate our efforts on the means to be implemented to ensure that France does indeed emerge from glyphosate, for the vast majority of uses, in three years' time. We therefore reject your purely political posture – but we are used to it –, a simple communication operation on the idea that the majority would refuse to preserve the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u218	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u219	[[New exclamations on FI banks]] The only way to really get out of glyphosate is not to include it in the law, as you propose, but to accompany farmers, particularly through the parliamentary fact-finding mission on the subject, which, under the chairmanship of Mr Dive, carries out remarkable work. We therefore invite you to continue the work in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u220	But we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u221	Like chlordecone?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u222	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Each group, including yours, can make an explanation of vote. So let Mr. Millienne speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u223	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Let us continue to propose courses of training; Let us reduce the overall use of plant protection products by supporting research. Help us to do this, colleagues. Work with us, as the minister and the chairman of the committee have invited you to do, and stop opposing you, which is also without proposing anything! You have no solution for farmers! None! No solution to allow them to live on the products of their farms!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u224	Your time has expired, Mr Millienne: please tell us what your vote will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u225	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u226	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u227	Contrary to what Emmanuel Macron said in November 2017, glyphosate will not be banned in the near future. Delphine Batho's amendments, which were intended to put an end to them by 1 July 2021, were rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u228	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u229	The amendment tabled by Mr Orphelin, which provided for an exit by 1 May 2021 – with possible derogations until 2023 – had the same fate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u230	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u231	However, we need a clear, real and binding ban, with some exceptional derogations: this is my position. You have the right to have another one, but the group La France insoumée simply invites us to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u232	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u233	But that is it: at a time when the Government is launching the great debate throughout the national territory, you are refusing to do so in this chamber. Comprehensive who can! However, there is an urgent need to ban glyphosate, on which the evidence accumulates. Out of this herbicide is therefore possible, Minister: alternative solutions exist; I'm not the one who says it, but the INRA, which I trust. According to him, an exit of glyphosate is already possible for 80-90% of uses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u234	Yes, the solutions are here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u235	Many farmers, moreover, are already using these alternatives, and that is good. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches. – Mrs Delphine Batho also applauds]] Of all this, we could have debated today, but you decided otherwise by putting this motion for referral back to committee that, logically, the Socialist and related group will not vote. The debate, in fact, does not scare us, and we regret that the majority does not take advantage of this text to fulfil the commitment of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u236	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u237	To be completely personal, my intervention is nevertheless convinced and determined. [[Ms. Delphine Batho applauds]] Favourable to the ban on glyphosate, I had voted for the amendments by Delphine Batho, Matthieu Orphelin and some other colleagues to make it effective by 1 May 2021. It was, I think, a good decision, and I had lamented, at the time, that we had not made enough progress on the file. We have a debate today: we must go to the end and not be afraid of it. Everyone is not required to approve the bill, but I do not see why we would not consider it. Many of our fellow citizens are asking for this debate; the parliamentarians we are, they demand action. That's legitimate, so worried about the subject. As Delphine Batho wrote in his book, it is no longer time for the ecological transition, but for the transformation of our development model, our production and consumption model.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u238	[[Smile. – Mrs Delphine Batho shows the cover of her book]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u239	We must therefore, at one point, take strong actions and actions. This implies voluntarism. In order to negotiate with the European Commission, to move our agricultural model forward – with farmers, of course – we must have the courage to act. That is essential, and our fellow citizens are waiting for it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups. "Mr. Matthieu Orphelin also applauds]] I regret, in this regard, that we are not moving forward fast enough. So, and because I would have liked a real debate, I will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u240	I remind you, Mrs Batho, that it is forbidden to show a book, a poster or anything else in the Chamber. I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u241	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 85 Number of votes cast 84 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 53 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u242	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u243	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u244	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u245	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Loïc Prud'homme and others to protect the population from the dangers of junk food (No. 1561, 1675).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u246	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u247	The evolution of our lifestyles over the past few decades has profoundly affected our food consumption, and industrial food has gradually taken its place as we reduce the time we spend cooking, and even eating. Thus, we now consume six times more prepared dishes than in 1960, and the share of food in the household budget has increased from 35 per cent 50 years ago to 20 per cent today, almost half as much. Our lifestyles, therefore, make us consumers of a food service that is partly industrial. It is not a question of denying this reality, whatever one thinks of it, but of allowing this service to be rendered without harmful effects on our health. However, if the industry boasts of providing us with a safe diet – the truth about the recurrent food and health scandals – it does not produce healthy food today. There is now no scientific doubt on this point. All international studies highlight the very strong correlations between the consumption of processed products and the development of chronic diseases and even cancers. According to Public Health France, some 20 million French people now suffer from chronic diseases and 49% of our country's population is overweight, of which 17% suffer from obesity. Our country now has more than 4 million people with diabetes. In total, almost 40% of deaths are attributed directly or indirectly to poor nutrition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u248	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u249	I could also point out that more than 11% of preventable cancer cases are due to direct or indirect dietary causes. It should be noted that all of these chronic diseases account for more than half of the expenditure on health insurance, i.e. almost 95 billion euros. The overall additional cost of obesity and overweight was estimated by the Treasury Directorate-General at more than €20 billion; diabetes amounts to more than 10 billion. The rate of diabetes in our country has risen from 2 per cent in 2000 to 5.4 per cent today: this is an example of the real explosion of chronic diseases that we are witnessing. Addressing these health issues is the ambition of the bill that the group La France insoumis invites you to debate and adopt. The production patterns of the food industry are in question, especially the massive use of additives and the presence of excessive amounts of salt, sugar and fatty acids to compensate for the low quality of the ingredients used. Let us not misunderstand, however: it is not for us to cast reproach without discrimination on an industrial sector, but to bring the necessary corrective measures to ensure that food does not expose the consumer to the risk of developing a chronic disease or cancer within a few years. The hearings of our committee of inquiry have shown that this is not only desirable, but quite possible. For several years, some conventional manufacturers have even embarked on this path, which the organic agri-food industry has been following since its inception, demonstrating that it is technically feasible to produce ultra-processed foods with a reduced number of additives, such as vegan meat substitutes. If this imperative is not contested, its implementation is slow and the movement towards a better quality industrial diet is slow. It is not I who say this: it is the conclusions that are tirelessly formulated, report after report, and for years now, the High Council for Public Health – HCSP –, the National Agency for Health Security of Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES –, the National Institute for Agronomic Research – INRA –, the Food Quality Observatory – OQALI – and many more. The Government has signed voluntary commitment charters with industrialists in which they promised to reduce the quantities of salt, fat and sugar in their production. But what has changed since the early 1990s when these charters first came into being? Nothing. We are still far beyond the levels that industrialists had committed themselves to respecting, and well below the goals set by the World Health Organization – WHO: more than 20 years after the first charters, we consume on average more than twice the recommended maximum daily doses of salt, sugar and fat so as not to risk developing cardiovascular diseases, diabetes or becoming obese. The High Council for Public Health and ANSES strongly recommend following the example of many neighbouring countries, which, on the basis of the same conclusions, have taken binding measures. The results achieved are significant for public health. In 2003, for example, Denmark set the maximum rate of trans fatty acid in oils and fats at 2%, which significantly reduced the number of deaths caused by cardiovascular disease, according to the latest HCSP report. The report also cites Austria, Finland, Latvia, Hungary and the United Kingdom among the countries that have successfully used equivalent policies. In this area, as in others, the proposal for a law which I am presenting on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party has no other purpose than to put into practice the recommendations of the health agencies of our country. This is the subject of Articles 1 and 2 in relation to additives and the content of salt, sugar and fatty acids. The same health agencies note that voluntary commitments in the advertising and marketing sector are not working. WHO has long made recommendations to regulate food advertising for children. Apart from the Gattolin Act, which came into force last year, the advertising sector in our country is governed by a self-regulation regime, under the auspices of the Conseil Supérieur de l'audiovisuel. There is also a mixed picture of this system: INSERM and the High Council for Public Health recommend that governments take much more restrictive regulatory measures to counter the extremely harmful effects of marketing and advertising on children and young people. I refer you to my report on this major issue. Finally, the last article of the bill deals with the education of our children. The work of our committee of inquiry has confirmed that good practices are acquired from early childhood and that education for eating well is a necessity. In view of the very strong relationship between junk food and social conditions, no one disputes that school is the ideal place to provide such training. However, the current arrangements in the Education Code are insufficient as they relate only to extracurricular activities. The HCSP and the President of the National Food Council, our colleague Guillaume Garot, recommend that this action be extended as well. It is the meaning of article 4 of the proposed law, which aims to make this education compulsory. The objectives of the bill are shared by Members sitting on all benches in this House. As proof of this, last year's unanimous adoption of the proposals put forward by our colleague Michèle Crouzet in his report on behalf of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u250	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u251	That is why I cannot fail to return for a moment to the debate we had last week in the Committee on Social Affairs: the Group of the European People's Party on the move has removed the four articles of the bill, immersing me in the perplexity that you imagine. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want us to remain in political tension. I believe that our partisan differences will not lead to the rejection of this bill; We should not waste precious time on our fellow citizens. I have heard your criticisms, your comments and your suggestions, and that is why I will present a number of amendments earlier. I will therefore propose a new wording of Article 2, which will explicitly mention the work of ANSES and OQALI, in order to unquestionably support the reduction of the salt, fat and sugar content of processed foods. With regard to the regulation of food advertising for children and adolescents, I will propose a new wording of Article 3, which I tabled in committee and which we have not been able to discuss. Indeed, food advertising today uses neuromarketing techniques that act at subconscious levels and that our children cannot resist. It's a real brainwash. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the SOC group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we come at a time when we are going to have to discuss the legislation. I would like us all to be aware of the absolute need to provide a legislative framework for this action. I cannot believe that, given your convictions and the commitments you made a few weeks ago, you were going back to the observation that we had then shared on this major health problem. I therefore ask you to respect your word – and to respect yourself, by not going back to what was, a few weeks ago, your convictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u252	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u253	Food is life. We are happy to eat vegetables, fruit, fish, milk, eggs, meat, whenever we wish and on any day of the week. But a meal is also with whom we eat; It is shared pleasure, conviviality, memories – "madeleines", said a great French writer. Our food tastes tell so much about our history, our collective history and our personal history! You don't eat in France like you eat in Germany, Italy, Korea or Brazil. The French gourmet meal is part of UNESCO's intangible heritage. Gastronomy takes part in the heritage and culture of a country – as, moreover, what we drink: it seems obvious to me. And this is especially true at home, in France. That's all our fellow citizens have in mind when it comes to "food." To speak as in the homes, the gastronomic meal inscribed in the intangible heritage of UNESCO is the "food" that is shared between "friends". Unfortunately, now we're also talking about "smokers." To all the dimensions I have just mentioned is added a new one, which takes a considerable place in our behaviors as in the public debate: that of health. That is what the draft law presented by Mr Prud'homme and his group wants to deal with. The public health dimension is crucial, whether it is nutrition to combat obesity, the development of certain diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, or because we want to protect ourselves from the harmful effects of certain products. Everyone demands – and he is right to do so – a safe diet and true traceability; In other words, a healthy, safe and sustainable diet. I would like to pay tribute to the exceptional quality of French health security. During the recent fraudulent entry of Polish meat into our country, in less than 72 hours, the health security services traced and found the meat in question. We can be proud of our administrative system. It is aware of the growing health concerns regarding food that the Government has placed this topic on the table of the General Food States. You have discussed at length, ladies and gentlemen, Title II of the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet, said EGALIM, which resulted from these general statements. Important steps have been taken thanks to you, but we know that we still have a lot of work to do before we achieve food excellence. Agri-food companies obviously have a central role to play in improving the nutritional quality of what we eat. The population expects a lot of them, and I think they know that. The bill discussed today is intended to better protect the population from the dangers of "drinking." Everyone basically understands what this is about, but it remains to be defined. The text consists of four articles. The first is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and aims to reduce the number of additives authorised from 1 January 2020. The second is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in conjunction with the Ministry of Health and Solidarity, and aims to impose levels of salt, sugars, saturated fatty acids. The third is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and tends to prohibit any advertising of food or drink primarily for children or adolescents. The fourth is the responsibility of the Ministry of National Education and aims to make nutrition and food education compulsory for one hour per week from primary school to the end of the college. Of the fifty-two amendments tabled, twenty relate to the Ministry of Health and Solidarity, thirteen to the Ministry of National Education, ten to the Ministry of Culture, four to the Ministry of Economy and Finance and only five to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which I have the honour to represent. However, at the request of my colleagues, I will give the Government's opinion on all of them. The topics addressed by the bill have already been largely addressed by the general states of food and during the discussion of the EGALIM bill a few months ago. This is the need to improve the food supply, by setting the levels of additives, salts, sugars, fatty acids – I welcome Mrs Crouzet's remarkable work in this area – and reducing food marketing that values products that are considered harmful to health and particularly targeted at young people and strengthening food education, with a view to raising awareness among young people of the importance of a balanced diet. The EGALIM Act already provides for measures relating to nutritional supply. The Food Observatory is strengthened; it will ensure the overall monitoring of the nutritional quality of the food supply. Indeed, we must know to act. Users of collective school and university catering will now be informed and consulted on respecting the food and nutritional quality of meals served. That is what the House wanted, and it is a very great step forward. With regard to the education of young people for food, the EGALIM Act extended it to all schools, which is another important step forward. I recall the consensus we reached at the end of the food states on the accountability of agri-food chains for improving nutritional supply – it is not unrelated to the legislation that we discussed earlier. In view of this decision, amendments to regulate the nutritional aspects of food were rejected during the review of the EGALIM bill. Industrialists voluntarily undertake to review the formulation of their products in order to achieve ambitious and measurable targets for salt, sugar, fibre, additives and fatty acids. In the absence of successful results, industry will lose credibility and the Government will use regulatory levers. There is a need to change attitudes and behaviour. This debate can contribute to this. It should not be thought that the issues of brand awareness, differentiation, customer loyalty do not matter and that they are not directly related to the practices of the agri-food industries in the areas concerned. The national public health plan, presented by the Prime Minister on 28 March 2018, promotes the placing on the market of an offer of processed foods of improved nutritional quality, through a new commitment by economic actors, and plans to reduce the consumption of salt in this context by 20%. ANIA, the national association of food industries, is committed to improving the nutritional quality of products and servings through its manifesto "1000 days to eat better". Food is one of my priorities. I work closely with the National Food Council and its President, my friend Member of Parliament and former Minister Guillaume Garot; We have common projects. The National Council for Collective Restoration, recently established, will also have an important role to play in all restoration outside the home. In this area of food and health, I wish to implement, together with the Minister of Health and Solidarity, the provisions of the law promulgated on 30 October 2018, and therefore continue on the incentive path. We will therefore propose, together with Agnès Buzyn, at the interministerial health committee to be held at the end of March, a common strategy for improving health through food. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the findings and objectives are shared. It is time to agree on how we can succeed. Health is an important thing for our citizens. Better nutrition, healthy, safe, sustainable and traced, is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u254	In the general debate, Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u255	To live well, you have to eat well. This seems obvious, but we know that this requirement has gradually been introduced by changes in our lifestyles, as well as by practices in the agri-food sector. Next to the art of the table, which, in our country, occupies such an important place, develops, as elsewhere, junk food. It is therefore appropriate to give our diet the greatest care. Eating well is not first of all an issue of aesthetists or epicureans, it is a political question. It is possible to create more or less favourable conditions in this area – and it must first be pointed out that many women and men face difficulties in feeding on a daily basis. Feeding, whether from the point of view of quantity or quality, is undoubtedly a social issue – even if it is not just that. This may even be the core of the social issue, because it is a vital need. It is also a matter of public health, which concerns the entire population. And it is also an economic issue, which implies that one wonders about the organization of production. This is all the more necessary since the profit-makers are in the game and their relationship to our plate is not disinterested. Who really decides our meals? What can we do to change our trajectory and improve our diet for all? Eating well is a growing concern. We must strengthen and share it, integrate it into new dynamics, at the heart of society. It is proposed that we act on two levers: regulation and prevention. Additive tracking is not a new passion, but it has a salutary revival. However, processed products and prepared dishes are, for many reasons, manufactured with many added substances. It seems necessary to better control what they contain. This must be done meticulously, in order to respect a number of traditional and artisanal know-how, which make our gastronomy famous and have little to do with the strategies of flooding the market that some large industrialists can develop. Among the factors to be better controlled are the use of salt and sugar, the negative effects of which on metabolism when ingested in excessive quantities. Demanding that the standards of the World Health Organization be respected seems to be the least of all things, even if we still have to ensure that we preserve the know-how of our territories. Who can ignore the damage that a poor quality diet can produce? Who can ignore the fact that large firms are busy shaping our tastes and desires to get used to us, to keep us loyal, to make us "addicted"? Who can ignore that some added substances are to mask what is lacking or compensate for the poor quality of raw materials? Over-consumption and under-consumption must therefore be dealt with together, questioning the very nature of agri-food products. On the other hand, if we first have to act on production, we also have to act on consumption. In this regard, it is known that many habits are forged from childhood onwards. Children's particular vulnerability to advertising is not to be demonstrated. Yet, the big firms have no scruples to address to them to activate their desires and to instrumentalize their imagination, in order to bring them into the great bath of fashion and stimulate their impulses of consumption. Without at least challenging the usefulness of the slogans of the type "eating-drinking", can we leave it there? Nutri-score should be fully used. Prevention also involves education; If it is already present in the programmes and does not seem to be intended to become a subject in itself, we propose to launch an experiment aimed at enabling children to have access to a dietitian, especially in the establishments that are the populations most affected by bad eating practices. We know that obesity strikes in a differentiated way, and that it occurs more frequently in the working class, among employees and workers, than in senior management. There is a need to act vigorously not to allow two-speed food practices to take place. And, if it is decisive to develop a culture of "good eating" and a true awareness of the dangers of junk food, because we know that it will undoubtedly have effects, we know that, to eat well, we must have a minimum of means. We know that, contrary to a received idea, it is not enough to want it. For example, "Green Label" products are 30 to 50% more expensive than other products. These inequalities translate directly into bodies and life expectancy. We are at the heart of key questions that refer to both the body and the environment. Changing food for a healthier diet also means changing the agricultural model and it must be done with the peasant world. New modes of production, consumption, distribution and trade are being sought. How can we not mention here those who organize themselves in associations for the maintenance of peasant agriculture, who develop short circuits, country markets? How can we not think of the town halls that favour the quality of meals served in canteens rather than the least so-called in terms of buying prices? How can we not also mention agri-food co-operatives who aim to take other steps? I am thinking of the experience of SCOP-TI who strives to produce a tea with natural aromas, or of La Belle Aude, who manufactures ice cream with fruit... [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] For health to be on our plate, we must agree to pay the fair price, which calls – but is another subject – for increases in purchasing power, and the detoxification of the logics of maximum yield and financial profitability that go so far as to affect our diet. It is indeed the requirement of quality, that of "good eating", which we must share from producer to consumer – and there is still much to be done to build it together. This is not what is at the heart of the multiplication of free trade agreements – and we hear so often protest against the rejection of standards and regulation when we are called upon to submit to them. France has a role to play, along with others, to make new paradigms prevail, to get out of the race for financial profit that is damaging man and the planet. A popular adage says we're what we eat. A popular expression answers: I'm not on my plate. Resuming power on our bases is therefore a broad political issue. This is also a revolution to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u256	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u257	This bill can, I hope, reach consensus in the House. Food is indeed one of the fundamental foundations of social and political organization. But one of our first duties, as representatives of the Nation, is to ensure that everyone can eat healthy food in sufficient quantity. The organization of the city, since Athenian democracy, poses this political duty as one of the first. Today, as you all know, private interests have acquired considerable power in the food production chain. The quasi-monopoly situation in which Bayer-Monsanto is located is from this tragic point of view. It is not acceptable for a transnational enterprise to hold so much of humanity's biogenetic heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u258	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u259	It is not acceptable that it wishes to use competition law to enforce its patents on agricultural seeds. It is not acceptable for this hideous giant to be in close contact with the great agro-industrial lobbies, by mounts in which the peasants become, against their will, the forced financial interests that crush them. You know these problems, like me, but the scope of this bill is narrower. Since we would probably not agree on the means or the will to put these transnationals at a standstill harmful to humanity, we propose that you vote on a text that will immediately improve the health of our fellow citizens. Limiting additives in food products is a public necessity. In the same way as with pesticides, the cocktail effects caused by the presence of more than five food additives are dangerous to health. In the age of chronic diseases, where cancers and heavy diseases are multiplying, it is a measure of public health that this one is. We are also following a recommendation from the High Council for Public Health. In the same spirit, our bill outlines a path to reduce the consumption of salt, sugar and saturated fatty acids in processed foods. Stroke – stroke – and cardiovascular disease would decrease as a result. Reasonable public action presupposes this type of public health policy which, instead of constantly making people feel guilty, treats the problem at source: on the part of producers and distributors. Since we are at the distributors and you love the notion of fake news, infox, we must fight against advertisements for children. Indeed, what more lies and insults for the mind than to distribute food advertisements to young or even very young audiences? All such advertisements must be prohibited. Our young people, who are in the process of becoming citizens, do not have to be subject to the consumer society. Their bodies should not be domesticated and wasted by the dissemination of advertisements encouraging the consumption of products harmful to their health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u260	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u261	Some of them may lose money. Greatly good for them, they will reflect on the meaning of the actions they carried out during the time when their practices were allowed. Finally, the instruction given by the school of the Republic, in a phase of transition and as long as the food lobbies work to poison people, must allow our children to eat properly and to know how to turn away from the dangers sown on our way by those who profit from the diseases they produce. I therefore do not see why we would disagree. Some here keep repeating that they share our point of view, that they would be most happy if our society were to allow everyone to eat healthy food, but that this must be done through incentives. When people die of cancer, so much so that it is now one of the leading causes of death in the world, it may be time to move on to coercion. Industrialists laugh slowly when you encourage them to reduce their profits. Voluntary commitments have failed. It is binding regulation that we need. We need it for the whole country. We need it for those who, in the popular and middle classes, suffer the most from junk food. For, as you know, it is the popular classes that, in the first place, suffer from the organized system of junk food. If we turn the problem back in the direction we want, it is clear that healthy eating is a matter of means. Food policies must be based on the adage of the famous German philosopher: to each one according to his needs. For if we maintain our relationship to food in the cruel dimension of the principle that everyone is entitled to what his means allow, the scale of the problem will not cease to grow. This bill could therefore be part of an alternative policy, which would free us from the constraints of what you call the open economy, and yet close the horizon of so many of our fellow citizens. Increasing social minima, increasing low wages, sharing working time in the week and in life, this is the general political framework that would allow our fellow citizens to feed themselves better. It is not possible to organize the misery of an ever growing part of our society and to claim, at the same time, to be able to create the conditions for a healthy food system. Social inequality is at the root of today's problem of unhealthy food. This inequality is double. On the one hand, the victims of junk food are among the poorest, in France, trapped in malnutrition; On the other hand, those who benefit financially from this system are among the richest 1% in our country. The diseases of some make money for others. In the course of mankind's history, fat diet has allowed our species to survive. Today, the apparent abundance situation produces overconsumption behaviours, which are not impossible to assume are inherited from periods of food shortages. The question of survival and that of food, however, did not untie itself with the last century. The nature of their intrication has changed. It's bad eating that some people die today. It is to produce too much, and no matter how, that humanity itself threatens itself through its food production. It is therefore essential, becoming aware of this problem, that we grasp it to its full extent: food production is the condition of our survival and must not under any circumstances be thought only through the prism of quantity. Quality is just as important. The framework within which to think about our relationship to food is not unremovable. It is historically determined. Letting big transnationals decide the content of our plates has a huge social, health and environmental cost: deforestation, pollution of groundwaters, destruction of biodiversity and soil depletion, but also crushing of wages, precarisation of tens of millions of workers, not to mention the development of diseases such as hypercholesterolemia, diabetes, hypertension. It is a world of woe that has been created. We refuse to live in this system that makes people feel guilty when they have not chosen it and it is the most modest in our country that are the first and many victims! Following this model that destroys everything, will we be the only generation of a living species at this irrational point to become the fossilists of humanity, taking with us all the animal and plant species. As far as food is concerned, the state must be a model. It must propel virtuous conduct into society by applying it immediately in the decisive sectors of public action. Why are so many colleges and high schools supplied with food by SODEXO, which provides food of at least questionable quality? Why are so many of our hospitals also subject to the same distributors, when it comes to feeding already sick people? Cost reduction is only a short-term accounting horizon. It is a short-term horizon that is not well thought out. Indeed, it is certain that a quality diet is absolutely necessary in our hospitals. When we are there, it is often because our body is so weakened that it requires nutritious foods; There is no doubt that organic farming is able to provide them, more than intensive agriculture. The distribution of 100% organic food is a principle that must prevail in our schools as well as in our hospitals. This could be the subject of another bill. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Here we give you an opportunity to make a real difference in the lives of our fellow citizens. We give you an opportunity to put producers and distributors in line with their responsibilities. In a society so complex that ours, it is not possible to individualize problems constantly, to say to people: "It is your cancer, your chronic disease, your stroke...", when we know that these pathologies have an epidemic and massive character. Take the measure of our times and take a first step in our company to break with the archaism of a productive system that manufactures diseases by feeding the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u262	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u263	The bill that we are looking at today is a key issue facing our contemporary societies: "smokers" and their impact on our health. As we all know, excessive and recurrent consumption of ultra-processed food products contributes to the development of chronic diseases such as diabetes, leads to an increase in the situations of overweight and obesity experienced by many French people from an early age and can be the cause of cardiovascular diseases. This has been noted many times in recent years and very recently in the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Industrial Food which you chaired, Mr. Rapporteur. We take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work done by all the Members from all the benches who have worked in this committee. Thus, this bill pursues a laudable objective: to protect consumers from the harmful effects of what we commonly call "drinking." However, as we were able to point out when we examined this text in committee, if the substance of the proposed measures is interesting, the form does not seem to us to be the best suited. Indeed, the MODEM and related group is reserved for the method chosen to pursue this common ambition. The provisions contained in the first three articles, in particular, are very coercive and are intended to prohibit or impose by the legislative authority. That is why our group has opposed the adoption of the text in committee. We prefer a philosophy based on the exercise of the free will of everyone. But the issue of junk food is primarily based on bad eating behaviour and habits. It is on this specific point that we must mobilize. To do this, it is essential to act on the levers of information and prevention, by educating future consumers from an early age so that they can make informed choices according to the information available to them. Indeed, the work in behavioral economics is unanimous and reveals that we are not all equal in terms of the information that is or is not transmitted to us. To educate, to develop one's free will means to allow each of us to make informed choices with knowledge of the cause. This process may seem very simple, but it must be noted that it is not as well integrated as we would like. Food education must be a priority. It must be deployed in a coherent and diversified manner, whether through specific lessons, on which we will return, or through external initiatives, such as the week of taste. The approach taken by our rapporteur in drafting the first two articles of the draft law seems very radical, since it consists on the one hand in requiring the use of a precise list of additives in the production of foodstuffs, i.e. in fact to ban others, and on the other hand in introducing a drastic reduction in the levels of sugar, salt and fatty acids in processed foods. As the rapporteur pointed out in committee, the debate is about the alternative between coercion and incentive to engage industrialists. We are opting for the second solution, because we are in particular in favour of working together and negotiating with the agri-food industries, with a view to achieving genuine transparency on the composition of products. It is a question of driving real momentum into a co-constructed approach, rather than opting for brutal measures that could weaken an entire part of the agricultural and industrial economy. Today, as the report of the Committee of Inquiry shows, several companies are amending and adopting more virtuous behaviour in the composition of processed or prepared foods. Our objective is therefore nothing utopia, and it seems to us good to persevere in this direction in a spirit of dialogue. We will therefore oppose sections 1 and 2 of the bill, as they seem too radical and potentially dangerous in their immediate consequences. The issue of education is addressed in articles 3 and 4 of the text. These provisions are of interest in trying to enrich our policy of prevention and health education for young people in the public sector. Article 3 deals with food education for young people through the prism of advertising. This is an interesting point but, once again, it is presented in a very excessive way. Indeed, the wording and very broad outlines of the proposed provisions make Article 3 unclear and difficult to apply. Many questions arise. How do I know what advertising is specifically intended for children? Can't adult advertisements reach children as well? How is it possible to remove any food advertising on a medium like the Internet? Are the question and the answer not found in the report of young publics to audiovisual media, therefore in the education of their manipulation within the family sphere? Therefore, instead of prohibiting advertising, would it not be more appropriate for it to develop information on the nature of the products? There are mechanisms that are being tested, such as Nutri-score, which could be a relevant option. Finally, while the idea of food and nutrition courses, as set out in Article 4, is interesting, a similar provision is already included in Article L. 312-17-3 of the Education Code. Would it not be more opportune to start from the existing one to enrich it? [[Mrs Blandine Brocard applauds]] The MODEM and related groups will not vote for this text in its current form. However, we will pay attention to the various proposed changes that will allow for progress, in particular on consumer information and prevention issues; It's all in the interest of public examination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u264	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u265	[[Smile]] Once it is not customary, you will agree, allow me to start an intervention in this House with good news. This news will bring us together in collective and unanimous satisfaction – it can happen. Know that we are world champions, and not just football! Last year, the OECD ranked us first among the countries that spend the most time at the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u267	We are world champions of the time spent at table: we spend two hours thirteen minutes a day in front of our plate, twice as much as our American friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u268	[[Smile]] That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u269	We take time to share a meal, and for the pleasure of being together. The gourmet meal of the French even entered the intangible cultural heritage of humanity, as the Minister for Agriculture and Food recalled. The French meal is celebrated all over the world, but to eat what? In the same way that each medal has its setback, each meal is not worth it. Indeed, a persistent evil invades our plates. This evil bears a name: junk food. The term is explicit. This has led us gradually to forget the taste of things and good products, to agree to eat dishes too poor in vegetable fibers, but too rich in salt or bad fat, too poor in natural vitamins, but too rich in food additives and other various chemicals. What happened to us? How is it that our food practices, but also the quality of the products we ingest, are now recognized as responsible for phenomena such as overweight, diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, and even now almost a quarter of cancers? How did we get to this point, and above all, what must we do to get out of it? Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a real public health issue. It is our health, that of our fellow citizens, that of our children. This is therefore an essential subject. Thank you, rapporteur, for allowing us to address it today! Through our exchanges, we will be able to find solutions together. If we still know how to spend time at the table, our ways of life encourage us, alas! to spend much less time in our kitchens. These lifestyles encourage us to favour the consumption of dishes already prepared, full of processed or even ultra-processed products. Last week, French researchers published in the journal of the American Medical Association, the Journal of the American Medical Association, a major study on prepared dishes and ultra-processed foods. While it is impossible, at this stage, to draw the conclusion of a causal link between food and health, this study nevertheless allows us to have strong, and even very strong, suspicions against junk food and industrial additives. She concluded that a 10% increase in the proportion of ultra-processed foods would be a 15% increase in mortality. The arrival on the market of products overloaded with fat, sugar, or salt, ultra-processed products and hyper-processed products completely upsets the history of human food. Yet, let's admit it: these products are so practical, and so appealing! They are designed to encourage our consumption. While they did not exist just a century ago, they now account for half of the total calories consumed in Western countries. Unfortunately for us, what pleases our brain is not necessarily good for our health. So, should we continue along this path or encourage those who manufacture these products to adopt formulas that are more respectful of our health? The answer, which may seem simple, is also complex. We must not only allow the consumer to buy with full knowledge of the facts, but also train those who manufacture these products to adopt new and virtuous practices, while avoiding the imposition of measures that would brutally undermine complete channels without even giving them the means to evolve. During the work of the Committee of Inquiry into Industrial Food, we found that some industrialists were being transferred and that they were voluntarily withdrawing more and more of the components in question from the revenues of their products. We have also realized that consumers, on their part, are becoming more knowledgeable and more demanding: they are demanding greater transparency from industry, and they are forcing them to change their practices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that our exchanges will allow strong progress in terms of the message given to the food industry, but also pragmatic, so that they can be implemented without endangering our sectors. It is high time that we were no longer afraid to eat what we have on our plates. A world champion's title is worth it, but even better, it's preserved!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u270	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u271	France, a country of gastronomy, is the country of good and good food, or let's say that it was this country. The famous bread baguette, the indetronable pot-au-feu de fin gras du Mézenc, the exceptional green lens of the Puy and its small salty: each terroir has its speciality. France is a country of culinary tradition, where eating is above all a pleasure. A meal with family or friends is at the same time a moment of sharing and conviviality, but it also makes it possible to educate the younger ones about taste and food. In spite of everything, that it seems far away, the time when our mothers or grandmothers simmered good dishes based on vegetables from the garden and a meat or a fish of the raw, which they followed with a true cheese of country, with a good country bread! Let your food be your first medication, already recommended Hippocrates by advising the absorption of barley decoction in case of febrile state. He was one of the first doctors to focus on nutrition as an important element for health. Perverse phenomenon, junk food provides immediate pleasures, while in the long term, it disturbs our health. It is the scourge of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. This is due on the one hand to the change in lifestyle, the development of the consumer society, the rapid food service, the collective food service, with food practices that have changed profoundly, and on the other hand to massive imports of foodstuffs not subject to French standards and present throughout our daily lives – I am thinking of meat as well as vegetables or cereals. The observation is overwhelming. Today, in France, there are 8 million overweight people, more than 500,000 heart failure patients, 10 million hypertensive people, more than 2 million diabetics, and 25% of cancers are linked to poor nutrition. For years, doctors and nurses have sounded alarms, as more and more children develop diabetes or high blood pressure. Many are also simply in poor physical condition. But the debate is not just about weight, height or body mass index; It is primarily about the health and lifestyle we want for our children. Many of the foods on our table are processed, with disastrous consequences for our health. Eating well is healthy eating. The specialists accuse the industrial food: they consider it too fat, too sweet, too salty and too poor in fresh fruits and vegetables.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u272	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u273	Our consumption of fresh products, in sharp decline, is very low. Scientific studies deplore a real public health problem, and the findings are alarming. The healthy argument blooms on the packaging in supermarket shelves; But unfortunately, the reference to "100% nature" does not mean "good for health". Food marketing is often misleading, sometimes even lying. Together, we will meet the challenge of a healthy, safe and sustainable diet for a healthy body. A real reflection is needed, because the decisions we make today will have consequences for the children and the world of tomorrow. This is the kind of long-term commitment we need, because we will not solve this problem in a few months or in a few years. It has existed for decades, and we will need decades to resolve it. Children are our future, they are the actors of tomorrow's society; We must protect them. The most important thing is to let the consumer decide with his wallet. He must be sensitized, for he is the only master of his choice. However, we need to be vigilant that each and every one of us can have the resources to access a healthy diet. The main objective of the bill before us today is to combat the proliferation of additives, and more generally processed and ultra-processed foods, in order to protect the population from the dangers that such products could pose to health. The junk food and its consequences challenge us all, and the group Republicans are very sensitive to this real public health issue. But he will not follow France's insoubted proposal for a law, because if the form seems interesting, the demands are too radical to remedy the problem in an effective and lasting way. The proposed measures do not make it possible to tackle them in practice, as the group The Republicans will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u274	It's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u275	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u276	In recent years, we have seen a proliferation of websites and apps that advise consumers in the choice of their diet. I use them on a daily basis and certainly many of you too. It's a long list, by the way...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u277	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u278	... and their success reflects the growing interest of our fellow citizens in the composition of their plate, as well as their expectations and legitimate demands for product quality. For some, it is essentially a health issue, for others, an environmental and societal issue, but consumers generally seem to be increasingly vigilant. They seek to consume season and local, to eat balanced or not to waste. This renewed interest is due in particular to the fact that industrial food has taken a prominent place in our plates. Without confusing safe food with healthy food, it must also be noted that certain health scandals, which are infamous, have helped to maintain distrust in the composition of prepared products and dishes. Yet today, the question is no longer whether what we eat is safe: the challenge is to be able to guarantee our citizens a healthy diet. Therefore, the bill we are considering today has the merit of raising interesting issues...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u279	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u280	... and to open debates that may return regularly to the future. Indeed, the generalisation of junk food, whether it be fast food or industrial prepared dishes, has become a problem that the legislator must seize, because it represents major issues. This is first of all a public health issue, because of the diseases or overweight problems that poor nutrition can cause. Mr rapporteur, you have made this clear by opening this debate, the health risks are numerous and proven. I recall that diet is the third leading cause of preventable cancer, and directly related to many chronic diseases whose prevalence is growing in our country: obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease. And even though I do of course consider that health cannot under any circumstances be reduced to accounting considerations, I must point out that the consequences of poor nutrition on the social security budget are due to the illnesses and work stoppages it entails. The second issue is social justice. Indeed, it is all the more important to prevent these risks because it is often the most modest households that are most affected, knowing that food is unfortunately not a completely free choice, but often a forced decision, in the first place by budgetary aspects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u281	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u282	Thus, it would be wrong to think that individual behaviours alone are to be changed, thanks in particular to better information. The problem is also rooted in the inequalities that go through our society, to the detriment of the poorest households.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u283	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u284	Therefore, it is in this dual sense that an ambitious public policy should be called for. First, this bill recommends regulating the presence of additives in food and accepting only those listed in the list of products and substances authorized under the organic farming label.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u286	This would increase from 338 additives to about fifty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u288	At present, however, our knowledge of additives and products used in processed foods is insufficient for legislation to come into force. The cocktail effect, i.e. the combination of several additives, prevents us from having a precise knowledge of their effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u289	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u290	Legitimating on the basis of suspicion, without real scientific rigour, is not a good method in the eyes of the Liberties and Territories Group, especially since it is contrary to our European commitments: we have been many to point out that the ban on the use of certain substances can only be applied if there is a proven risk to health, otherwise it is contrary to the principles of free competition and free movement of goods laid down in European law. Furthermore, it is not reasonable to ban substances without allowing time and opportunity for producers to develop alternatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u291	There are!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u292	The introduction of a purely coercive system does not therefore seem to us to be effective. The proposal for a law, however, raises one interesting point: authorisations are currently only issued on the basis of studies produced by the industrialists themselves. This aspect of the issue is truly problematic and indeed deserves to be deepened. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore advocates promoting a better understanding of the effects of junk food by multiplying independent tests in order to have a more precise view of their consequences for our health. Secondly, this bill aims to regulate the levels of sugar, salt and saturated fatty acids in our daily food rations, as recommended by the World Health Organization. More specifically, you are recommending, Mr rapporteur, a reduction path by setting a target value per product family. This measure seems to us to be in the right direction when we know that, on average, today, we unfortunately consume twice the recommended doses. Sometimes, we even consume sugar without knowing it, since it is present in processed products without our being able to suspect it. Given the health risks, we can only wish for a reduction in the levels of sugar, salt and fat in our diet – consumers also want it, since, as I said in the introduction, they are increasingly paying attention to the composition of the products they buy and more and more are turning to mobile applications, and therefore changing their eating habits. It is also for this reason that we must encourage preventive actions: pedagogy is an essential tool, because poor nutrition is not only bad products, but also bad behaviour. If not to ban or regulate everything, our country must promote prevention systems, in the way of nutrition labelling – that is to make it more educational, and also more visible. The idea of making Nutri-score compulsory was raised in committee: it is a possibility that I think it would be wise to think about. Thirdly, the proposed law emphasizes that prevention also involves education. You are right to want to do this, Mr rapporteur, by offering nutrition classes at school. School awareness of societal issues has already proven to be effective – I am thinking, for example, of raising awareness of recycling. As part of a parliamentary mission on the nutritional quality of food, which I carried out some 15 years ago, I had already advocated bringing nutrition and food into school, recommending better training of teachers on this subject, visits to farms or the development of critical thinking among students in the face of advertising. However, given the inequities in resources between schools and the already short and busy school time, a weekly hour devoted to this teaching seems disproportionate... But we could, as I have experienced in my department of Mayenne, set up fruit and dairy distributors, in connection with local producers, in colleges and high schools. I can say that this experience has been a great success. We therefore suggest, Mr rapporteur, that the time devoted to this teaching in your text should be revised downwards. Finally, you are proposing to regulate food advertising. If we understand the intention of such a proposal, a pure and simple ban on advertising for children's foods, without distinguishing between poor nutrition and foods of good nutritional quality, we find it unwise or even counterproductive. This bill therefore raises very interesting questions, but legislation at the present time seems somewhat premature. The devices presented, if they deal with important subjects, which our assembly must indeed take up, appear to us either not yet available or even inapplicable. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group expects clarifications from the forthcoming debate, clarifications without which we would not be able to vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u293	Excellent! A big one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u294	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u295	No one can ignore that the difference in life expectancy between the poorest 5 per cent and the most affluent 5 per cent is thirteen years. Around a standard of living of EUR 1000 per month, an additional EUR 100 is equivalent to an additional 0.9 years of life expectancy for men and 0.7 years for women, while the difference is only 0.3 years and 0.2 years, respectively, around a standard of living of EUR 2000 per month. Beyond the material conditions, this unbearable difference can be explained to a large extent by this observation: when one is poor, one eats little, but above all one eats badly. Recent studies show that as early as the age of 10, a child of a worker or employee is at four times the risk of obesity. This figure echoes the price of a calorie of fruits and vegetables, five times more expensive than for all other foods. This gap is even greater in the overseas territories. A recent study of a cohort of more than 100,000 people even concluded that a 10% increase in the consumption of ultra-transformed products resulted in an increase of more than 10% in the risk of developing cancer, particularly breast cancer. I therefore thank the rapporteur, Loïc Prud'homme, for giving us the opportunity to discuss a major public health issue. The Socialist and related group joins in this proactive approach, which has the merit of putting junk food as a social problem. Malbouffe is now made aware of by many consumers; The voluntary measures proposed must help the French not to suffer a death-bearing diet which, moreover, widens the inequalities by adding to those already existing, whether geographical or socio-economic. We regret, however, the way in which the examination took place in the Committee on Social Affairs, in the same way as the socialist bills discussed three weeks ago, when the majority had emptied them of their articles and had not wanted to debate them. Article 1 of this bill deals with additives. I have heard many of you, in the majority or on the right of the House, say that these provisions are drastic. Instead of deleting them in committee, you could have made proposals! It is true that if we know about the dangerousness of food additives separately, not or too few studies exist on the consequences of additive cocktails. As the rapporteur pointed out, scientists agree that it is impossible to study the billions of possible combinations and their consequences. That is why we must address this issue in the light of the precautionary principle. You are proposing to us as the main axis, Mr rapporteur, education. Of course, all our fellow citizens must be allowed to be wise and active consumers, not passive consumers. Of course we need prevention, and much more than there is today, it's obvious! I was not the co-rapporteur with our colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille of the information report on health prevention for young people, which would tell you the opposite. It is clear from our work that 1 euro spent on prevention is, in the long term, about 12 euros saved for social security and, for our fellow citizens, less diseases and disabilities. Prevention is necessary, but it is not enough: the report stresses that the quality of food supply must also be improved through binding measures. I would like to share two examples. The first concerns clearance products marketed in ultramarine territories, such as poultry found in our supermarkets at competitive prices. In those territories where the cost of living for food is on average 28 per cent higher and the poverty rate is above 40 per cent, these prices provide more purchasing power, but their effect is pernicious. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, you will not find these products in your hexagonal plates, because their origin is too blurry and their quality too low does not allow them to be marketed in metropolitan France. Since these economic wastes are expensive to destroy, we prefer to sell them elsewhere. In the absence of binding measures, the law on real equality overseas passed unanimously in this House in 2017 is therefore not applied. My second example concerns the conscious and even voluntary poisoning of sugar which has been taking place for a very long time in the overseas regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u296	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u297	In ultramarine territories, sugar levels are higher than those at national level. That is why in 2013 we passed a law on the quality of food supply in these departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u298	Why are these rates above the national average?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u299	Why? We were told that the reason was cultural, that we were used to eating sweeter. I don't know who invented this bright explanation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u300	That's lamentable! Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u301	As I said, in 2013 we passed the law to guarantee the quality of the overseas food supply; But, in the absence of a sanction, the situation is still the same, as sugar levels have not improved. Many associations, whose work I salute here, take these subjects together, in particular through popular education. However, their action would not suffice. For these reasons, we support this bill and believe that the law must be binding, enforced and submitted to the WHO recommendations. How could we allow a system that works on its head to flourish? The four-metre out-of-three-metre roadside billboards, advertising in children's magazines, on smartphones and apps, or on television, including in programmes for young people, stimulate the consumption of products that we now know are helping to create the unbearable human situation of serious, sometimes perennial or fatal diseases, which lead to millions of medical consultations and the taking of medicines each year, greatly increasing public expenditure on social security and hence tax. Who are the winners of this system? And where is the general interest that we are supposed to defend at all costs on behalf of our fellow citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, let us ignore our political affiliations to consider only the diseases caused by junk food that we see around us in our constituencies. I am outraged to see that the situation does not change on salt, on sugar, or on other problems related to junk food! We see people amputated in front of us because they have diabetes, people who have become disabled as a result of cardiovascular accidents, and who die from these diseases. In the face of these situations, will we remain without doing anything? We were told in the Committee on Social Affairs that it would be impossible to act, which I cannot understand. We have studies, opinions and recommendations: all we have to do is make the necessary decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the issue at this sitting. In particular, we will support amendments aimed at protecting the poorest consumers by prohibiting promotional benefits on products that do not comply with the WHO recommendations on food additives. We also know that many authorised additives contaminate us. Some are even banned in other countries, such as E102 called tartrazine, which is banned in Austria and Finland, or E110, which is banned in the United States. Since 2009, the cans have been marked with a text written in very small characters warning that the dye E102 may have adverse effects on the activity and attention of children. But who sees him? However, this dye can cause seizures in asthmatics, as it is an intense allergen, and it is also carcinogenic, mutagenic and neurotoxic. We cannot wait any longer: it is urgent that we choose between, on the one hand, the health of our fellow citizens, food security and the precautionary principle, and, on the other, the benefit of a few shareholders. We have a duty to reverse this quantitative deterioration in favour of a healthier and sustainable diet, which will support an economic sector that must continue to grow. We are indeed convinced that the continuous improvement of our products will be a guarantee of consolidation and will allow the conquest of new markets. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u302	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u303	This afternoon we are considering a bill presented by our colleagues in the La France group. It is based on a laudable ambition to protect our fellow citizens from the dangers of what is called junk food, i.e. the proliferation on our plates of ultra-processed, very sweet and very salty foods of low nutritional value. Let me first mention the case of farmers. They live as an injustice being sometimes put on the bench of the accused and feel the accusations against them as a kind of dispossession of the products of the land of which they are at the origin. It must be said again with force just a few days before the opening of the Agriculture Fair: our agriculture is one of the best in the world. If the whole world had agricultural products and food of the quality of those produced by our farmers, there would be every reason to be satisfied. However, through the questions it raises, the initiative of our colleagues is interesting. Indeed, it echoes the concerns and great tensions that are going through our societies. Our ways of life have nothing to do with those of previous generations. The time when we were just taking the time to cook is almost over, and the consumption of processed or even ultra-processed products is now the norm. The fact that the purchase of prepared dishes has increased sixfold over the last few decades is particularly significant. The development of these industrial products is not in itself reprehensible, as it has contributed to better health security and made it possible for as many people to have access to previously inaccessible products. It is in this context that questions and concerns arise about the origin and treatment of the food we eat. Recurrent health scandals help to maintain our fellow citizens' mistrust of the quality of the products on their plate. Consumers legitimately expect more transparency from the agri-food industry – the two terms being largely contradictory – on the composition and nutritional quality of the foods offered to them. The issue of food additives is also, and rightly so, a matter of concern. Today, more than 350 additives are allowed. However, the usefulness of some is far from obvious, as pointed out in the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Industrial Food in this House. Their usefulness would sometimes be limited to artificially creating flavours or making the colour of foods more attractive in order to encourage their purchase. In addition, the lack of dangerousness of authorised additives is not currently known, particularly in the case of cocktail effects. It is therefore legitimate to seek to change the industrial practices for the use of additives in processed and ultra-processed foods. Finally, the quality of food is an important public health issue. Food is now the third most preventable cause of cancer, and is also directly related to many chronic diseases such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. On the other hand, scientific studies confirm that social determinants are a crucial factor for access to a more varied and better quality diet. In the overseas territories, which Ericka Bareigts mentioned, obesity is particularly prevalent, especially among younger generations. To see the young people of my archipelago with a bottle of sweet drink by hand from an early age, we understand why diabetes is a scourge of public health in our territory. The report issued last September concluding the work of the mission on health prevention for young people points out that while in 2014 3.6 per cent of metropolitan children in CM2 are in a situation of obesity, this figure reaches 5.5 per cent in overseas countries. In New Caledonia, obesity and overweight affect more than half of the population. We are therefore convinced that, on these issues, we need to go further in the area of information and prevention. Education for good nutrition can only be achieved through an increased effort by the entire educational community, starting of course with parents. We must also encourage our fellow citizens to do more physical exercise. The mechanism proposed by our colleagues therefore has the merit of putting this important subject on the table. However, it seems to us to be both inabouti and unapplicable as it is. Articles 1 and 2, while attractive in theory, are too general, impermissible and otherwise contrary to our treaty commitments. Indeed, the prohibition on the use of additives can only be applied if it constitutes a proven risk to health and, if the danger has not been established, it is contrary to the principle of free competition and free movement of goods laid down in European law. The hearings of representatives of the agri-food industries carried out by the Committee of Inquiry into Industrial Food have also highlighted an awareness of this issue and the implementation of policies to reduce the use of these additives. It is on this basis, rather than through a coercive mechanism that will quickly find its limits – Ericka Bareigts recalled the weak application of the law adopted in 2013 to reduce the sugar level of certain drinks in the overseas – that we must move forward. We must do so, in a very proactive way, in partnership with representatives of the agri-food industries. A simple ban on advertising food to children, as provided for in Article 3, also does not distinguish between junk food and foods of good nutritional quality. It would therefore, in our view, be counterproductive. Moreover, such a measure most likely falls within the regulatory level. Finally, the introduction of weekly learning about nutrition at school, in addition to the fact that it already exists in our law, perhaps in a more flexible and appropriate way, would constitute an additional burden for teachers in an already constrained time context. In fact, we generally consider that the school must be asked to remain faithful to its primary mission: it must remain the place of learning the basic knowledge and intellectual emancipation of our children, with a view to training citizens. It is therefore with reservations that the IDU, Action and Independent Group is approaching the consideration of this bill. It will take a decision at the end of the debate, depending on the developments that have taken place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u304	Mr Olivier Véran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u305	It is customary to say that there are no good or bad foods, but there are good and bad ways to eat them. I have said this in this House in a previous attempt to force industrialists to use Nutri-score in advertisements. But when it comes to thinking, there are still bad foods. When we read the scientific studies that have recently been published concerning ultra-processed dishes – such as these industrial lasagnas in which sugar is found, this chorizo, also with sugar, and all these foods with additives – can we consider that taken individually, even if one consumes little, they are good? Probably not. What is certain is that the main cause of junk food in our country – but also of overweight, which affects 32% of French people, and obesity, which affects 15%, which is not nothing, because it means that almost half of the French population is now overweight – is to be sought in a completely unsynchronised diet of the French gastronomic tradition. Indeed, France is rather the country of gastronomy, the country – forgive me the expression – of good food. It is the country in which veal blanquette, Parmentier hachis and Dauphinois gratin have always been consumed; But we knew that if we had had lunch well, we would go to dinner in the evening lighter, lighter – for example, from a soup – and eat more fiber, fruit and vegetables. As was said earlier by the rapporteur, everything goes very quickly when you shop at the supermarket: you choose dishes that you can cook or warm up quickly enough, and you finally have few points of reference. Between one dish of prepared lasagna and another, it is not known which one contains too much salt and which contains only too much salt. However, the health consequences of junk food and this unsynchronised diet of our gastronomic tradition are important. For example, a person with obesity dies on average eight years earlier than a person without obesity. In addition, social inequalities with regard to food are extremely high, and this is unbearable: the rate of obesity among children is four times higher in workers' families than in managerial families. What can be done under these conditions? Some would like to ban, and probably some regulatory measures can be proposed. However, I very sincerely believe that the basis of health prevention is information – free, fair and appropriate information for consumers. What are we witnessing today? More like misinformation. I have already taken the example here of cereals that are given to children. I was still watching recently, with my children, advertisements – naturally aired in the middle of cartoons – that boast their merits. I retained the slogan: eat these cereals, "and the tiger is in you. » What information is given to the child in this case? Information contradicts the nutritional quality of the product. Another example: on the packaging of other cereals is a very fine silhouette. You're almost made to believe that the more you eat, because the summer comes, the more you're going to sluggish, while in reality their nutritional score is as bad – in any case not terrible – as that of other cereals that seem much sweeter. Again, information is the basis for prevention. But this information exists today, at least in theory: it is the Nutri-score nutritional score, which was not invented by the deputies, but by Professor Serge Hercberg. Marisol Touraine had included it in the 2014 law: at the time, we wanted to impose it on manufacturers on all food labels, but this provision would have contravened European law. This makes it impossible to impose a logo that is not recognised as a European standard; So we had to go through an experiment of this score in real terms. She's been led since then. His results are impressive. International studies in twelve countries have shown this again recently: 300 per cent improvement in consumer nutrition information, 68 per cent improvement in consumer behaviour in relation to food, and 3.4 per cent reduction in mortality by chronic disease – which is nothing if we know what they cover on the whole – are observed when using a nutritional score. Nothing is imperative in this process. It does not in any way hinder the way consumers are consumed: they are only provided with information. This information on packaging cannot be generalized, in any case not today, even if Europe is making progress in this area – Spain and Belgium have just adopted Nutri-score, and seven other countries are in the process of doing the same, thanks in particular to the determined action of the Minister of Solidarity and Health Agnès Buzyn. On the other hand, industrialists can be forced to use Nutri-score when advertising, regardless of its medium: internet, television, radio, print media. This should be mandatory everywhere: it would be a way to counterbalance misinformation, but also to provide consumers with qualitative information. I hear all the arguments, including those relating to procedural risks, the charter of good practice, consultation, etc. These are the same as at the time of the discussion of the Evin Act, the same as about diesel and many other areas. However, not all major advances in public health have been through charters: they have generally been due to the voluntarism of public representation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I shall devote two more minutes later to detailing this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u306	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u307	How can we not agree when it comes to fighting junk food? Coluche said: "God said: I share in two, the rich will have food, the poor with appetite." If I do not believe that God is responsible for this food divide, there is, on the one hand, the countries of the North, which deal with the dangers and problems of junk food, and, on the other hand, the people of the South, who suffer from hunger and malnutrition. This phenomenon is not close to stopping, since, according to a United Nations report, more than 821 million people around the world are still suffering from hunger. At the same time, and this is the whole paradox, overweight affects 1.4 billion people aged 20 and over: this is considerable and, again, this curve is not close to reversing, because according to WHO, 3.3 billion people are expected to be overweight by 2030. It is common practice in this area to cite Americans as living examples of the effects of junk food. In the United States, in fact, a life expectancy study confirms a unfortunately persistent trend: Americans live for less time, and this is obviously due in large part to their way of life, which includes a diet that is not enough. The French do not derogate from the rule. With an average of thirty-one minutes of lunch breaks, they eat more and more fast and worse, and with 51 billion euros of turnover, fast food and, at the same time, junk food, have the wind in stern. In view of this, we should all agree to mobilize and try to think about another way to feed ourselves, but that is not the case. What is the best way to fight junk food? Is the famous Nutri-score an interesting measure? Is it 100% reliable? Should we teach good eating at school? Should we ban fast food, prepared food, soda? Should advertising for children's products be banned? How, finally, do you want to eat healthy? If I have nothing to object to section 1 of your bill – to hunt for additives does not seem to me to be a bad thing in itself – I have more trouble with section 2, which, under the guise of good intentions, wants to regulate the quantities of salt, sugar or saturated fatty acids. All right. But here we are once again in the ban and in the regulation: why not focus on food education on the contrary? As for Article 3, it proposes to reduce the impact of food advertising on young people. I pass on the fact that this formulation does not mean much, but concretely, how to do it? So your only answer is to ban and control everything, right down to our plates. For my part, I believe that it is by taking up the preventive aspect and education with a view to healthy eating that we will win this battle, but not in the classrooms: no, especially not. I remember interviewing Philippe Durèche, unfortunately deceased since then, who was nicknamed the "Sister Clean" of school catering in 2010. More than ten years ago, he was already advising local authorities on how to put in place, in nurseries, a catering system that would provide the child – our children – with a healthy, varied, balanced diet, good for health and – cherry on cake – respectful of our planet. His battle horse was to restore taste to the meals served to the children, for a well-educated child will eat healthy and later pass it on to his own offspring. According to him, it was necessary to restore taste without sacrificing anything to the basic rules of hygiene, but by letting common sense speak first of all. I still see him formulating some basic recommendations, such as putting the affective back into the school catering circuit, which, it is true, involves more staff. According to him, it was necessary to serve simple but quality products, to track the use of products with weak and rapid chewing – an absolute guarantee of the return of the feeling of hunger two hours later – and also to drive away the fear of food poisoning, which led to the suppression of the meal prepared with love by the town hall staff to the benefit of cold and industrialised circuits. I'm making my own recommendations here tonight. I'm betting common sense rather than prohibition. We need to offer the French a healthy, varied and balanced food, and above all accessible to all purses. We need to end the food divide, which often aggravates the territorial divide: when you are a bobo, you eat organic, and when you live in the cities, you eat sweeter and saltier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u308	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u309	"Let your food be your only medicine," Hippocrates said. The father of medicine had already clearly identified the impact of our nutritional behaviours on our health. Today, this link between diet and health seems to be more verified than ever. In recent decades, diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular diseases and cancers have grown dramatically as a result of diet. Recent studies and the work of the Committee of Inquiry into Industrial Food, of which I was rapporteur, have shown a link between the over-consumption of industrial foods and the risk of these diseases occurring. These foods now account for almost two thirds of the food consumed by children and almost half of the food consumed by adults. The increase in consumption is due to changes in food practices over the past 50 years. The nutritional composition of these foods must therefore question us. Poor in essential nutrients, these products are often too sweet, too salty and too fat. They also contain additives whose cocktail effects are and will remain difficult to evaluate. It should be noted that this phenomenon of over-consumption of food varies according to social categories: the favoured categories consume more fresh products, while the smaller ones consume more industrial foods, especially because of their low cost. Food has indeed become a social marker. What an injustice that people who overconsumption foods of industrial origin – for reasons of means, ease, what I know again – are forced to consume poor quality products! Yes, food security is essential. In recent years, however, it has been at the expense of nutritional composition. Today, consumers are increasingly demanding and attentive to the content of their dishes, as well as to the health consequences of their diet. Food has become a major public health issue. The agenda of this House therefore calls for consideration of the bill to protect the population from junk food tabled by Mr Loïc Prud'homme. While we are pleased that this fundamental debate is taking place in our House, I regret that the word junk food has been used in its title. Stigmating only industrial foods is a mistake: industrial is not synonymous with bad, and many of the actors involved are making efforts. Let us not blame those who consume industrial foods, for some are forced to do so! In my view, the original wording of this bill was not sufficiently successful, and it was incompatible with the complexity of national and European regulations. Article 1 on additives was a clear example of this, in so far as it was not applicable, having regard to the principles of free competition and free movement laid down at Community level. Article 2, aimed at reducing the levels of salt, sugar and saturated fatty acids in processed foods, has an objective that I agree with, but it still deserves adjustments. Since the publication of my report, I have been working on this subject, leading to a realistic and pragmatic mechanism that will really improve the nutritional quality of industrial foods. That is why I meet different actors: scientists, but also the industrialists themselves, in order to better understand their manufacturing processes, because it is up to them to make the necessary efforts – it is indeed essential to consider the feasibility and the application of the device that will have to be chosen. Let us not lie to the French, let us not lie to consumers! With regard to advertising and food marketing for children, referred to in Article 3, I hope that our discussions today will allow us to move forward on this subject. Finally, article 4 dealt with a fundamental theme: education for children in school, an institution that has a central role in enabling everyone to acquire healthy eating habits. However, the writing of this article seems to me too restrictive. Dietary learning must cover several dimensions, both nutritional, environmental and cultural, not to mention the practice of physical activity, which is essential to combat sedentary behaviour in children. Finally, I regret that the subject of research has not been addressed in this text. That is why I have tabled an appeal amendment aimed at stressing the need for better support from the public authorities, so that scientific data, particularly on nutrition and health, can be made available so that all manufacturers can take advantage of it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am in favour of a constructive debate, which will allow us to grasp the whole issue of food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u310	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u311	I will try to respond to all the speakers, starting with the minister, who welcomed the fact that we shared some of the findings. While I also welcome this, I would like to point out that the voluntary commitments that he refers to do not work, which has been demonstrated by many studies, which have now given us sufficient setbacks. The minister also noted the inter-ministerial nature of this issue, an issue on which I agree: one of the proposals of the committee of inquiry was to create an inter-ministerial structure which could possibly be the High Council for Public Health – HCSP – and which would allow us to pursue a more proactive food policy. Mr Dharréville denounced the use of additives to mask defects in industrial production. These defects are due to the fact that industrialists always use the cheapest products, which are therefore of lower quality, in order to maximize profits, and make massive use of additives in order to mask this practice. He also referred to the problem of the social accessibility of good quality foods and, on this point, I would like to point out that low quality calorie from industrial foods costs five times less than the same calorie from a fruit or vegetable. Mrs Panot recalled the general framework for industrial food, which is a political framework: with salaries constantly drawn down, it is indeed difficult for our fellow citizens to make the choice to eat properly. She insisted on the need to regain power on our plates, which will have to be done at the same time as we resume our lives and completely rethink the organization of our society. Ms de Vaucouleurs felt that the articles of the proposed law were coercive in nature and that it was preferable to encourage consumers to make greater use of their free will in order to allow them to make different food choices. It is now scientifically demonstrated that such an analysis is wrong, if only because consumers do not have insufficient information; Moreover, the constant increase in addiction – I am thinking in particular of tobacco – shows, on its own, that the exercise of free will does not systematically lead to making the best choices for health. Finally, I repeat that, in practice, voluntary commitments do not work. Ms. Brocard referred to lifestyles, which actually induce certain consumption patterns. If industrial food renders a food service whose existence cannot be denied, then it must be selected so that it renders this service without the harmful effects that often accompany it. Mrs. Valentin denounced misleading marketing. In this respect, European legislation and regulations have an important responsibility: for example, nutrition claims have been pending for ten years as a result of the actions of lobbyists, who have succeeded, by imposing numerous derogations, in preventing true nutritional profiles from finally being published at the level of the European Commission. [["He's right! » on the benches of the FI group]] Our colleague has also said that the consumer is the sole master of his choices, which is wrong, as I have already explained in recalling that a low quality calorie is much cheaper than its equivalent of good quality: in these conditions, when you have low incomes, you necessarily – almost mechanically – move towards the cheapest calories, which are the most harmful to health. Mr. Favennec Becot referred to recurrent health scandals, which gives me the opportunity to make a semantic reminder about the claim of the food industry that they produce a "safe" diet. If one ignores the scandals that occur regularly – the latest one concerns a damaged Polish meat which has invaded the French market – certainly, the industrial food is pretty safe, in the sense that the risk of dying shortly after having consumed it is quite small... However, it cannot be claimed that this food is healthy, as it causes diseases that kill us slowly. Mr. Favennec Becot also considered, with regard to the reduction of additives, that the legislation on the subject was insufficient, and stressed that it was now impossible for us to assess the cocktail effect of these additives. The EFSA has confirmed this last point: for a food containing five of the 338 additives currently authorised within the European Union, there are more than 41 billion possible combinations of these substances! Of course, we will never be able to carry out all the scientific studies that would be necessary to evaluate all these combinations, which is why it is urgent to apply the precautionary principle. Fortunately, the international studies that have been carried out allow us to have some scientific basis showing that the use of a large part of the additives is very controversial. Ms Bareigts mentioned a major public health issue, as well as the problem of the social marker, particularly in the overseas departments. Indeed, these territories are particularly affected, and the law does not apply to them as in metropolitan France. I myself was able to see that there were advertisements that were contrary to the law, in particular some that boasted alcohol during the school year, which is completely unacceptable, because I believe that the law must apply in the same way throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u312	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u313	Mr. Gomès stated that farmers were often identified as responsible for the production of junk food. In fact, they are also, and above all, the victims because, while their profession is in principle to produce a healthy diet, they are now dispossessed of that aspect of their profession which is their pride, at the same time that they are dispossessed of the value of the food they produce. Today, for a food product sold to the consumer EUR 100, it is only EUR 6.50 to the farmer who produced it. How, under these conditions, can it produce a quality diet? We must work to find ways to remedy this capture of value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u315	With regard to the additives, also referred to by Mr Gomès, I want to come back for a moment to the procedure for authorising them to be placed on the market. This is done on the basis of dossiers which only petitioners abound in scientific studies: an industrialist therefore has no difficulty in placing an additive on the market, since he is the only one to bring data to his scientific study – especially since most additives were allowed at a time when the regulatory authority, the EFSA, was in conflict of interest – a situation from which it is very difficult to get out. I agree with you, Mr Veran, and it allows me to refer to the proposal I made in Article 3 in the form of an amendment to ensure that only foods with a certain nutritional quality can be advertised and promoted. Thanks to this amendment, we will be able to move forward by finally leaving this neuromarketing equivalent to brainwashing, which is extremely harmful for our children. I think you have not read this bill correctly, and in particular Article 2 of it, Mrs Ménard, because in regulating the content of salt, sugar and fatty acids in foods, it is not a matter of forcing all manufacturers to change their practices overnight. Today, for each category and sector, there is a great disparity in salt, sugar and fatty acids content, so that, for each product category, it is easy to target an average value within reach of the technological capabilities of industrialists and, starting from this value, to draw a path over two, three or four years, which allows us to meet the WHO recommendations, which cannot be ignored indefinitely – even when they were enacted ten years ago, these recommendations are still not met. I would like to make it clear to Mrs Crouzet, rapporteur of the Committee of Inquiry into Industrial Food which I had the honour of chairing, that if I used the term'malbouffe' in the title of my bill, I did not associate it exclusively with industrial food – on the contrary, I took the precaution to say that our current lifestyles made the food service provided by industrial food indispensable to us. Today, it seems to me necessary that we legislate the practices of the food industry in order to move towards a "better eating" for all. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In conclusion, I would say that junk food is for me to let anything eat to enrich anyone, and that we need to get out of this situation as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u316	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u317	Mr Didier Martin, the first speaker on the item, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u318	I agree, Mr rapporteur, with your questions about additives, which this first article tends to prohibit in the production of our food, with the exception of those used in organic food. Let us remember, however, the difficulties French people face in eating healthy food and choosing more natural products. I am thinking of their difficulties, their financial constraints – 21% of our citizens consider that they do not have the means to eat healthier. The constraint of time can also weigh, as it is more convenient and quick to consume prepared dishes. We naturally share the concerns of the French about the presence of additives in prepared products, because the health effects are unknown, in particular the consequences of multiple and low-dose exposure, the famous cocktail effects. It is therefore necessary to change industrial practices and to reduce the use of additives, as proposed by Mrs Crouzet in the report which she submitted after the Committee of Inquiry on Industrial Food, chaired by Mr Prud'homme. However, the measure you propose in Article 1e r would not achieve this objective. It is not possible to act unilaterally, without involving our European partners. It is not possible simply to prohibit the use of all additives, with the exception of those used in organic food, within such a short period of time, before 1 January 2020. This would be contrary to European competition rules and we would expose our country to sanctions. This article cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u319	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u320	[[Movements on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Secretary of State, I visited Cuba on a parliamentary trip. You can talk! When I greeted, in one of my reports, the quality of the EHPADs of Denmark and the Netherlands, no one raised the monarchy regime or ultra-liberalism of these countries! There are models to quote everywhere: let us not deprive ourselves of them! I visited a organic farm in Cuba, where very beautiful fruits and vegetables were growing on one side, less beautiful on the other. I joked about production for the good guys and bad guys. Farmers have told me very seriously that fine fruits and vegetables are for maternity homes and establishments for elderly people, children and sick people, the rest for the rest of the population because to heal, you have to eat healthy. I was ashamed, as a French caregiver, of the trays that we can serve in our hospitals. Remove these additives, our proposal is common sense! You have to eat healthy to heal, heal, grow. How can we do this by ingesting so many chemicals, additives, harmful to our health? This visit gave me a chance to think. We are decades away from the lucidity of the people of these countries. Remove the additives. Whatever Europe is, it is a matter of common sense. Will industrialists lose money? Too bad. As we said on Tuesday night, about the gestures that can save, a life has no price. The elimination of additives is a matter of common sense. I don't see why we'd delete this article that can save lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u321	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u322	This amendment tends to delete Article 1. Of the 338 additives authorised by the European Food Safety Authority, this article makes no difference between the so-called cosmetic additives used to improve the visual presentation of the products and the stricto sensu additives which have a conservation function. On the other hand, imposing the only use of the 48 additives authorised in organic food could deprive manufacturers of certain additives which have no effect on health, but which are technologically useful because they contribute to health safety. Finally, any measure to prohibit the use of certain additives or to force industrialists to use only additives authorised in organic food cannot be adopted, having regard to the principle of free competition and free circulation of goods laid down in European legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u323	So that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u324	A Member State may not prohibit the use of certain additives in its territory, except to take safeguard measures, as specified in Articles 53 and 54 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, i.e. to state that there is a proven risk to health and that this risk cannot be satisfactorily controlled by measures taken by the State concerned. The Member State wishing to use such a ban must be able to justify to the European Commission the scientific validity of these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u325	It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u326	Otherwise, the restriction of additives in the manufacture of foodstuffs could be similar to a measure having an effect equivalent to quantitative restrictions, with the aim of limiting imports of foodstuffs which would include additives not authorised in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u327	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u328	It could therefore put France at risk of litigation with Community bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u329	Let's assume it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u330	For these reasons, this amendment tends to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u332	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] You explain that section 1 of the proposed law does not distinguish between cosmetic additives and those that are of real use and that it would be possible, by reducing the list of 338 additives in the conventional industry to 48 in the organic industry, to remove some of them that contribute to health safety. But to my knowledge, the organically labelled food industry is no less secure than the conventional industry. You will agree with me that it successfully demonstrates that the technological usefulness of most additives is very limited, because the use of only about 50 of them, unfortunately, does not prevent it from developing industrial food production just as transformed as the conventional industry. On the other hand, your argument that by limiting ourselves to organic additives, we would increase their consumption without knowing their health effects, is in bad faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u333	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u334	[[Mrs Bénédicte Taurine applauds]] What are you proposing instead? To leave more than 330 additives in circulation, some of which have proven risks, not to mention billions of possible cocktail effects? It's not serious. The precautionary principle requires that the number of additives be limited, as all scientists claim. That is why one of the main proposals of our colleague Mrs Crouzet, in the report of the Committee of Inquiry, was to reduce the number of additives to be used only in organic foods by 2025. More radically, it proposed to limit the number of additives in a single product. However, it is difficult to get rid of the debate by simply deleting this article, because you are well aware, Madam Secretary of State, that there are many arguments in favour of this reduction. Scientific work – that of the National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and the Workplace, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, the High Council for Public Health – sees this as a subject of major interest. The only question of the unknown effects of cocktails alone would justify the strict application of the precautionary principle. In addition, where is the consumer's interest? The taste enhancers, sweeteners, which are likely to disrupt the functioning of the brain's taste receptors, not to mention the most controversial additives due to their dangerousness, are mainly used to mask the taste and defects of low-quality ingredients and to deceive the consumer about the quality of the foods it ingests. Finally, you oppose us, Madam Secretary of State, the impossibility of legislating on this matter, the European regulations forbidding us, and the risk of litigation to which our country would expose itself. However, with regard to additives, the European regulation you mentioned is very explicit: "Food additives may be authorised and used only if they meet the criteria laid down in this Regulation, the use of food additives must be safe, meet a technological need, must not mislead the consumer and must be of interest to the consumer". That's not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u335	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u336	The question raised by Article 1 is not without solid foundations. Strong controversies, consumer concerns and recommendations from health agencies and researchers are of particular concern to these subjects. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The committee has not voted on this amendment, since it was tabled late, but in my personal capacity I am against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u337	And so do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u338	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u339	The Group of the European People's Party will strongly oppose this deletion amendment. The victims of junk food are not by choice, but because, for reasons relating to their means or to the organization of the food industry, they are obliged to consume these additives in large quantities, whereas they are not known about their "braceful" effects. On the other hand, there is an undeniable reality in our country, and even in the world, of the explosion in the number of cancers and cardiovascular diseases. If we do not want to blame individuals, we must act directly at the industrial level. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] We agreed in committee that until now all the voluntary commitments of the industrialists have failed. Yes, we need binding legislation in this area. On the other hand, our arguments diverge in that the precautionary principle is part of the constitutionality block. We must demand that it be applied. As for the safeguard measures, France has already used them, for example to prohibit dimethoate and the importation of treated Turkish cherries, in order to protect the health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u340	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u341	We can do this for additives. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You are very afraid of a possible dispute with the European Union, but you tremble less when it condemns our country on several occasions for poor air quality and pollution. So there is double standards in your arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u342	I have before me two amendments, Nos 53 and 55, which can be presented together. Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u343	In France, nearly 340 additives are allowed in food products and have very varying degrees of dangerousness. Scientists today are not able to know the human effects of billions of possible combinations. Many countries have banned many of them. The prevention of food health and the self-regulation of the agri-food industries with regard to food additives are very inadequate. Amendment No 53 is therefore intended to restrict, from 1 January 2020, the promotional advantages which have the effect of reducing the selling price to the consumer for processed food products other than those containing healthy additives. The withdrawal amendment No. 55 extends that date to 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u345	You are proposing, dear colleague, that tariff promotion be restricted to food products containing only additives authorised in the organically labelled agri-food industry. This proposal is consistent with the spirit of the bill and is timely in its completion. It will help to restrict access to foods containing additives that may have harmful effects. This argument is also that of the following amendment, No 55, which is presented as a withdrawal amendment, the only difference being that the planned date is 2022 instead of 2020. In my personal capacity, I have a favourable opinion on these amendments, as the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u346	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u347	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u348	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u349	We will of course support these amendments. I've worked in diabetes: Can you imagine what it's like to tell parents that their 13 or 15 year old child is suffering from type 2 diabetes due to his diet? To think that a parent can poison his child, and give him a disease, because that's what this is about? The Secretary of State defends herself by alleging that there are no scientific studies showing that such an additive causes such a danger. But we are in France, in 2019! What are we waiting for to ask for these studies? What are we waiting for to save our children? What are we waiting for to stop type 2 diabetes? A piece of legislation? Well, that's good, that's what we were proposing with article 1. Honestly, additive products are involved in these type 2 diabetess, you really need to be aware of them! It is because of them that children are sick and their parents feel guilty. As a parent, I don't want to feel guilty, and as a human being, I don't want to see people feel guilty because they gave their children junk food. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] I have heard your argument to delete Article 1, but I am waiting for you to tell us that by tomorrow you will be asking for scientific studies to determine which additive is dangerous to our health. It's really a public health problem that you have to take with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u350	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u351	I fully understand the underlying logic, which means that only products containing fewer additives can be promoted. However, there are many problems with this measure: since authorised additives are considered safe, it is not possible to invoke their dangerousness to justify such a measure. However, the Government is attentive to recent studies, such as the NutriNet-Santé study, which suggested a link between the consumption of ultra-transformed products and the risk of cancer development, but was unable to establish that the observed effect was related to the presence of additives. Studies should be continued, in particular to characterize ultra-processed foods. I hope that these studies will be carried out and that, on these grounds, we can decide on the appropriate follow-up. So I answered you about future studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u352	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u353	[["Zero! » on the benches of the FI group]] As we recently got an appointment at Santé publique France, I just want to know what budget this agency has to deal with the problem. After that, you will have my trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u354	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u355	Before I turn to Article 2, I would like to refer to Mrs Brigitte Kuster's amendment to the additional Article after Article 2. It aims to reduce the VAT rate on organic products to 2.1%. I don't know if she'll be there in time to defend him, but I'd like to say a few words. Organic farming undoubtedly offers more guarantees for quality food. This measure would allow more French people to access this food, and therefore farmers who are embarking on organic farming to receive a fairer remuneration. Hence the interest of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u356	This is the article that we are talking about at the moment, my colleague. In principle, the amendments are then discussed... Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u357	I believe that we will see, as the discussion proceeds, two ways of looking at the problem we are dealing with. On the one hand, there are those who say, "We don't know, so benefit of the positive doubt: let's let it happen." And they add with humanity – because there are only people here concerned about the well-being of others: "Just inform, people will decide." These are two mistakes in one. It is not true, first of all, that we do not know: we know in any case that any change in the diet of human beings causes disturbances. One can follow on the map of the diseases that appear in Europe the waves of human immigration: as they have taken place, they have brought about unknown consumptions, and which have never been assimilated by certain human groups, here or there, even though they have, in the majority, been. This is the case with milk, or some grains, among others... We therefore know at least that it is not neutral to ingest this or that, and that there is no doubt, therefore, that chemicals are a problem. The second element is human behaviour. For 200000 years, we were first hunter-gatherers, and among the traits that were selected were the ability, the will, the hard work to find sugar. It's like this: those who bought it, in fruits or honeycombs, survived and reoccurred. Anyway, I don't want to give you a short course in Darwinism, this addiction was positive. In modern society, it was seen by the producers who said, "Let's take advantage of it! Since people are attracted to sugar, they are in a way that does not care about their rational behaviour." And that's where you're wrong, you who think it's enough to inform. If human behavior were determined only rationally, the world would not be what it is. Most human behaviors are dictated by irrational causes. It is so true that, on food, all religions, all philosophies, begin by setting extremely compelling prescriptions. This is the first time in history that political leaders, like religious or political leaders yesterday, have been seen saying, "Listen, it's enough that you're in shape, and we'll see." Well, the prophet did not say "we will see well" about the pig, but "it is forbidden to eat it". It is the same in the Bible and the Torah. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is to say, food prescriptions have always been imperative, because they take into account the fact that human beings follow slopes that are not those that reason dictates to them. Sugar addiction is exploited by producers to make you buy something that you wouldn't buy in such a quantity if it wasn't to receive sugar.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u358	I have before me two amendments, Nos 47 and 31, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor to support Amendment No. 47 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u359	As I said in the general discussion, it is essential to consider the possibility of effectively applying the mechanism that will be retained. It is the most important thing: one can certainly include requirements in the law, but if it is not possible, then, to apply them, it is of no use. So we need to be very vigilant, and that's why our work really takes a lot of time. Amendment No 47, as corrected, aims to introduce several mechanisms to promote a more healthy diet. First of all, it concerns the nutritional data collected by the Food Observatory, which has the task of carrying out an overall monitoring of the food supply, by measuring the evolution of the nutritional composition of the food. The professionals now transmit the nutritional data of their products to the Observatory on a voluntary basis, following specific conventions that ensure the anonymity of the data and specify their conditions of dissemination. The aim of this amendment is to require manufacturers to transmit their nutrition data to the Observatory: this is a first. It also gives the body the ability to set maximum levels of salt, sugar and saturated fatty acids, as well as to monitor the quality of the nutritional supply. It is planned that, each year, a report drawn up on the basis of these data will be submitted to Parliament on the development of nutritional quality. This amendment is also intended to complement collective agreements by making them more demanding. It entrusts the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour (ANSES) with the task of setting thresholds for the reduction of salt, sugar and trans fatty acids from the data transmitted to the Observatory, targeting the main segments of contributing products. Finally, it plans to incorporate into the collective agreements signed by the industrialists these objectives defined by ANSES, as well as the means to be used to achieve them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u360	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor in support of Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u361	It provides that the State shall ensure the improvement of the nutritional quality of the food supply and set objectives for this purpose, leaving to the actors of the food chain the care and means of complying with it, within the framework of collective agreements by family of products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u363	With this amendment, Mrs Crouzet, you propose a new wording of section 2 of the bill on which I am somewhat puzzled: I see a certain contradiction between paragraphs 1 and 3. First of all, you propose that the Food Quality Observatory – OQALI – no longer collects, as it does today, the nutritional data of the food supply, and that it should now be companies that transmit labelling data to it. Today, OQALI collects this data through agreements it has made with certain operators who have committed themselves to providing it. Does the change in wording that you propose, which would impose an obligation on companies to provide their data, mean that you do not trust these agreements – which, by the way, are probably the only ones that give effective results? Is it necessary, for this reason, to go through the obligation? With the third paragraph, on the other hand, you remain within the framework of the voluntary commitments of the industrialists to reduce salt, sugar and fatty acids, of which you are well aware that all the health agencies of our country, such as ANSES, the High Council for Public Health – HCSP – INSERM or the Directorate-General for Health – DGS – strongly recommend abandoning them in favour of binding measures, because the charters that have been signed so far have never given any result. Today, only the Ministry of Agriculture is still in favour of voluntary commitment charters. In particular, HCSP recommends that our country be guided by decisions taken in a number of other countries, such as Austria, Finland, Latvia, Hungary, the United Kingdom, Portugal and Denmark, which have imposed a drastic reduction in the level of trans fatty acids in food, thereby significantly reducing the number of deaths caused by cardiovascular diseases. As for paragraph 2 of your amendment, I cannot, of course, support it. You know that the goals of reducing salt, sugar and fatty acids are well known, and that they were set almost twenty years ago by the WHO.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u364	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u365	They also appear in full letter form in the National Nutrition Health Program, from its first edition, in 2001, until the most recent. They will of course be renewed in the fourth, which should soon be finalized. What other proof do you need to finally admit that the voluntary commitments of industrialists to achieve these objectives are not respected, have not been respected, and that there is no reason for them to be respected in the future? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, I would point out that the work of our committee of inquiry had concluded on very interesting proposals, which you yourself had put forward, and which we had unanimously adopted. They expressly stated that, "in view of the proven failure of voluntary commitment measures", a regulatory limitation on the content of salt, sugar and trans fatty acids in processed foods should be introduced". That's what you were advocating at that time. The committee has given a favourable opinion, but in my personal capacity I will give an unfavorable opinion, you will understand that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u366	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u367	Favourable on Amendment No 47 as corrected, unfavourable on point 31. In our view, Amendment No 47 is correct: it proposes to use existing tools, which are already operational, to make them mandatory and to improve them. OQALI exists, it already collects data voluntarily paid by industrialists. Making the payment of such data mandatory would be a first step.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u368	I'm looking forward to the second one, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u369	The publication of an annual report to Parliament on the evolution of the nutritional quality of food will be a valuable source of reliable information, which will enable the legislation and the industry themselves to evolve in the same way. Allow me, Mr rapporteur, to be a little surprised at your comments on this amendment: it aims to go further, obliging industry to give reliable, real and transparent elements, and you reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u370	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u371	Like the rapporteur, I am surprised: in fact, by proposing a new wording of Article 2, your amendment emptys it of its original objective, whereas we could have been in favour of an amendment to supplement it. You said that the existing tools should be strengthened. This is in no way inconsistent with the objective of Article 2, which is to comply with the WHO recommendations. Your approach reveals the bad faith of your amendment strategy, which aims to remove Article 2 from its full scope by, in particular, removing the binding nature. The feedback at our disposal goes in the same direction: we must guarantee and control levels of salt, sugar and saturated fatty acids that are in line with the WHO recommendations, without relying on the will of the industrialists, who have no interest in doing so. Their personal will is not at stake: simply, it is not in their economic interest to reduce these additives – for years, studies have proved it to us. That is why we must shoulder our responsibilities by imposing a framework. Mrs Crouzet, yes, we think that it is not enough to vote on laws; we must also give ourselves the means to implement them effectively. That is why this bill is part of a comprehensive and coherent strategy, which provides the necessary funds to guarantee human resources and finance research in the field of health – our colleague has asked the Secretary of State on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is part of this work that we propose you to do. You refuse to do this, considering that it is enough for us to rely on the goodwill of the industrialists, while they seek only to increase their profits. With this new wording of Article 2, they will certainly win, but at the expense of the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u372	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-21-O1161.u373	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the bill to protect the population from the dangers of junk food; Proposal for a law to establish a support fund for artistic creation; Proposal for a law on the creation of a free public driving licence; Proposal for a law prohibiting the European secondment system in the national territory. The meeting is adjourned.
