ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to combat domestic violence (No 2453).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u2	Mr Aurélien Pradié, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u3	On October 10 last, I counted on this rostrum the number of women killed by their companion in our country. They were 117 at the time. If I had to make that count today, I would kill the dead up to 142. At this rate, in a few months, my few minutes of speaking time will not be enough. Similarly, words, indignation and indignation are no longer enough: only acts count. This bill was sought by the Republicans Group. It has gathered opposition and majority because it allows finally to move from words to deeds. This law is not talkative, it is strong; it is precise; it is concrete; It is a decisive step towards better protection of women at risk. No one can be satisfied with the situation we are experiencing. No one can say that our organization and our current means are totally up to the extreme urgency for these women. Yes, France is late. So we had to make progress. From now on, a woman in danger can be protected in six days, when more than forty-one of them are now needed to hope for a protection order. That's a big step forward. The Family Court may decide on a ban on publication, the provision of care to perpetrators of violence, the effective withdrawal of arms, the suspension of parental authority and the right of access and accommodation. From now on, the civil judge will have to rule on all matters, without omitting any. By this law, the anti-approximation bracelet will finally become a reality. After too many hesitations, we generalize it from the preventive stage. In the civil context, in conjunction with the criminal judge, a companion who threatens a woman with death may be forced to wear the device. It is before the tragedy that we must act. This bracelet is a solid advance. He'll save lives. We have transformed the law; Now, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you have to ensure the financing of the measure. However, the €5 million needed to deploy the bracelets are missing from the 2020 budget. Such a deficiency is unjustifiable and you must remedy it. We don't conduct such a battle without budgetary means, and you know that. Housing is also crucial for victims That's why our bill makes keeping the victim in his or her place of accommodation the rule. From now on, the violent spouse will have to leave the home, and in case the women want to leave, which happens, it is planned to experiment several solutions to accompany them, in particular by taking care of the first months of rents. Access to the dangerous telephone will be facilitated: it will become accessible by all means and in all situations. The Joint Joint Committee confirmed all the measures in the original text. It has even chosen, by a unanimous vote, to go further by deciding not to pay reversion pensions in case of femicide. More importantly, we will better protect children. A violent father is never a good father. It is not enough to say it, it must be included in the law. Our text already provides for the automatic suspension of the exercise of parental authority and the rights of accommodation and visit in case of prosecution – i.e. possibly at the time of the indictment – or of conviction for crimes against spouses. There was no reason to wait any longer to decide that. All these measures are the result of several months of collective work, carried out with all members of Parliament and senators – whom I salute for their involvement – and with you, the seal keeper. Some may have wondered about the meaning, perhaps even the sincerity of our approach. To these, I mean, straight in the eyes, a simple thing: the only thirst that animated us, our only quest was that of justice. A quest for republican justice, that same justice that must protect the most fragile, that must not let women in danger die. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM, GDR, SOC and LT groups]] One day in March 2008, the Lotois gave me, for the first time, their electoral confidence. On the first day of my first elected office, at the very first hour, I received a resident of Cahors. This woman, I knew her, she was the mother of one of my childhood friends. She entered my office as a young General Counselor, sat down and, without saying a word, slowly removed the scarf that was hiding her neck. His neck was blue, swollen, marked by the fingers of the one who, the day before, wanted to strangle him. "If I go home, he dies me": these are the first words she uttered – it was ten years ago, I was starting and I didn't forget them. This woman's name is Helen and, on the first day of my political commitment, she was at the origin of this beautiful fight that I was happy to lead on behalf of you all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u4	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u5	The rapporteur has just recalled that more than 142 women have died under the blows of their spouses since the beginning of 2019. This figure alone is a strong exhortation to act, addressed to us collectively, regardless of our political affiliation. It is in this spirit that on 3 September the Prime Minister opened the Grenelle des violences conjugales and that the National Assembly adopted, almost unanimously, the bill that is now before you. It is also in this spirit that our discussions have taken place in this Chamber, so that operational solutions can be quickly found to ensure that situations of violence and crimes are no longer fatal. In the fight against domestic violence, justice is of course central. In this capacity, for several months now, I have been taking proactive action – because it is a matter of action, I agree with you, Mr rapporteur – based on a very structured plan. The circular of 9 May, which I addressed to the public prosecutors and prosecutors of the Republic, thus recalls the priority of the treatment of such violence and encourages its addressees to make full use of the legislative arsenal at their disposal, such as the serious danger telephones or the protection order. I hope, of course, that the use of this order will be facilitated and become a regular practice, almost a reflex. In fact, my services have analysed all the decisions making a protection order that were issued in 2016. This important work, carried out for more than six months and the results of which were published on the website of the Ministry of Justice in September, revealed that the use of this system has been steadily increasing since its inception. When the judge is seized – I insist on this point – a protection order is issued in almost two thirds of the cases. This development, while positive, remains largely inadequate. The text before you today, along with the provisions that you will shortly be seized of, will help to combat the scourge of domestic violence better and better respond to our injunction to act, and to act quickly. The bill that brings us together today aims, on the one hand, to strengthen the protection order and, on the other hand, to generalize the use of the anti-approximation bracelet – BAR. I fully share this dual will, since it corresponds to the two major axes on which the Ministry of Justice has been working for several months. The bill gives us new arguments as it not only seeks to encourage the parties, as well as the lawyers who assist them, to ask for the measures provided for in the legislation, but also to strengthen them. With regard to the protection order, the text that you are about to vote definitively should make it possible to increase the use of this very protective mechanism which allows the family court to organize the separation of the couple in a context of violence. The victim of domestic violence can thus obtain, by the same court decision, both civil and criminal measures: civil measures concerning the organisation of family life, including access and accommodation rights, maintenance or the allocation of the couple's housing; criminal measures such as the prohibition of contact and the prohibition of the carrying of weapons. As you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, the text provides that the family court must decide within six days of the date of the hearing. In order for this period to be effective, the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure relating to the protection order will have to be adapted – my services are already working on it. The bill also provides essential clarifications. I quote a few examples: a criminal complaint is not necessary in order to be able to apply for a protection order; hearings may be held separately if the requesting party so wishes; the protection order may be issued to couples who do not cohabit and have never cohabited. These and other clarifications have an educational virtue and enable us to respond to the recommendations made by GREVIO – an expert group on combating violence against women and domestic violence – in its evaluation report on France, published on 19 November. It should be noted that the group "appreciates the great determination shown by the French authorities to include prevention and combating violence against women among their national priorities. He also points out that "the authorities' commitment to this cause has been reinforced by recent initiatives, such as the first Grenelle against domestic violence launched by the Government on 3 September 2019. » With regard to the anti-approximation bracelet, it may be imposed on perpetrators of domestic violence as a penalty, but also before any criminal judgement in the context of judicial review, or outside of any complaint, in the civil context of a procedure of protection order, as announced by the Prime Minister as soon as the Grenelle was opened. There is a very broad consensus on this measure. I myself had begun work in this direction with several parliamentarians – I am thinking in particular of deputies Guillaume Vuilletet, Guillaume Gouffier-Cha and Fiona Lazaar. The La République en marche de l'Assemblée nationale had tabled a bill to that effect. I am pleased that, in a spirit of co-construction, it was finally decided, in order to move forward more quickly, to opt for the consideration of the bill tabled by the Republican Group in the National Assembly. The anti-approximation bracelet is indeed a major step forward and the salient point of the text. I deeply believe that this new mechanism, dedicated to the protection of victims alone, will be able to avoid a significant number of femicides, as has been the case in Spain. With regard to its financing, I recall from this rostrum that it was anticipated by the departments of the Ministry: we provided €6 million through the postponement for 2020, in accordance with a principle laid down in the examination of the amending finance law for 2019, of the payment appropriations of program 107 "Correctional Administration" that had not been consumed in 2019. This amount represents the estimated cost of the measure, as contracts have not yet been awarded. You have, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the Government, enriched the original bill. For example, new provisions on parental authority have been introduced, which respond to the Government's strong commitment to better protect women victims of domestic violence and their children. In the text, there are two measures that the Prime Minister announced in his opening speech at the Grenelle. The first provides the criminal judge with the opportunity to rule on the withdrawal of parental authority and access and accommodation rights. This provision, which provides more flexibility for the judge, is likely to enable him or her to implement a solution more adapted to the family situation when the withdrawal of parental authority seems too radical. The second creates a temporary, full-right suspension of parental authority in the event of a prosecution or conviction for a crime committed by one parent against the person of the other parent, pending the decision of the family judge. Ms. Valérie Boyer had also made the request. The Joint Joint Committee has therefore chosen to include these provisions in the text we are considering today, without waiting for the discussion of the proposed law on the protection of victims of domestic violence. I am pleased that these new measures are strongly endorsed and that they are registered earlier than foreseen in the law than definitively no, a violent spouse cannot be a good parent! But the fight against violence within the couple will continue, including within your House. It is now time to learn from the work carried out in the Grenelle against domestic violence, as well as from the work carried out by the deputies of the La République en Marche group at the end of their working days in the region. These reflections led to many proposals. Several of them, and I welcome them once again, are converging with the reflections and work carried out within the framework of the Justice working group that I set up in the Chancery following the launch of the Grenelle. I would also like to stress that this working group will continue its work in order to follow the progress of the actions that have been announced. It is a matter of registering itself in the duration, even beyond the sequence of the Grenelle. Among the many proposals made by Members, some required legislative changes. Today, they are reflected in the bill to protect victims of domestic violence, tabled on 3 December by Bérangère Couillard, MP for the majority, for which the Government initiated the accelerated procedure. This bill will be discussed in the coming weeks and will, I am sure, also be passed by consensus. It envisages amending the Civil Code, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and aims to ensure the organization of family life and the effective protection of victims of domestic violence, both parents and children. Its primary objective is to respond to the need for protection of victims of violence. As such, it tends to include in the law that children will no longer be bound by any maintenance obligation towards the parent who killed the other parent, to prohibit any mediation both civil and criminal in the event of violence and in the event of influence, which responds to a very strong demand from the associations and to allow doctors to more easily reveal the acts of domestic violence to the court, even in the absence of agreement by the victim, in certain specific circumstances strictly regulated. It also proposes to extend the criminalization of certain behaviours and to encourage their repression, in particular by punishing more severely the harassment within the couple that has led the victim to commit suicide or attempt to do so, and by penalizing more widely the behaviour of espionage. Finally, it provides for certain specific adjustments to parental authority: in the event of domestic violence, and in the context of judicial review, the investigating judge or the judge of liberty and detention could specifically provide, before any conviction, for the suspension of the right of access to and accommodation for children, including in the absence of direct violence against them. To return to the text that you are about to vote on, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the result of a constructive parliamentary dialogue. I am confident that the resulting law will help to provide better protection for victims of violence within the couple. In this regard, it is of particular importance to me that the selected arrangements be operational as soon as possible; It's a major issue for me. My services are therefore working now, and even for some time now – even before the final adoption of the text – to draw up the necessary regulatory provisions to enable the provisions of the bill to be applied as quickly as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, SOC and LT groups]] In conclusion, I would like to assure you of the absolute commitment of the Ministry of Justice on this subject, and of mine in particular. We will continue, with the help of all – not only magistrates and law enforcement officials, but also lawyers, associations and civil society as a whole – to combat acts that, by killing women every day, affect society as a whole. This bill fully contributes to this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u6	In the general debate, Mr Stéphane Viry will speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u7	The proposal for a law to act against violence within the family, of which our colleague Aurélien Pradié has taken the initiative, has generated a trans-party consensus on the benches of this House. This is a rare fact which reflects both the common sense of the proposed measures and their necessity. It will make it possible to reform the protection order, which is essential for the care of victims of domestic violence, in particular by reducing the time taken to issue the order and by laying down certain requirements concerning the marital home. Another flagship device is the extension of the wear of the anti-approximation bracelet. It may be ordered by the civil judge from the date of the protection order, or by the criminal judge, before or after the judgement, which has never been applied until now. In addition, personalized housing assistance for victims of domestic violence who have no choice but to leave the home will be created and experienced. Finally, the delivery of the serious danger telephone will be simplified in order to make the device more accessible and to further extend its use. This bill therefore contains important and expected progress. Even if the legislation is still perfect and there is probably a way to be even more effective, a step forward in the fight against domestic violence will be taken with this bill, in favour of which I invite you to vote at the end of our debates. I note that the Government has initiated the accelerated procedure on this text: this only confirms the quality of the work carried out, both in committee and at the sitting, by parliamentarians under the leadership of our colleague Aurélien Pradié, as well as the need to act quickly and effectively. This has been recalled, but we must insist on these figures as they challenge us: 220,000 adult women are victims of violence within the couple every year, and more than a hundred, at least, die of it. This is obviously a social problem that our country is suffering from. The political movement to which I belong, however, did not wait until 2019 and the Grenelle of domestic violence to act. The fight against domestic violence was the main national cause of the year 2010, at the initiative of President Nicolas Sarkozy and under the leadership of François Fillon, then Prime Minister. For example, the Law of 9 July 2010 on violence against women, domestic violence and its impact on children was initiated by the right-wing party. It is on this basis that we are consolidating our legislative arsenal today. It has been confirmed that 1,000 new housing solutions are expected to emerge as early as January 2020, when the anti-approximation bracelet is expected to become widespread. In addition, a bill should be considered, including the systematic suspension of parental authority in the event of femicide. As part of the parliamentary niche of the group Les Républicains of 10 October, which was devoted to domestic and domestic violence, we have also begun the examination of the bill defended by Valérie Boyer on domestic violence and the impact of domestic violence on children. I welcome this initiative, which shows that the group has set itself the slogan of supporting any new measures that might stem this scourge. You said at the moment, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that your ministry was in tune, as it is doing everything possible to ensure that the future law is implemented from the beginning of 2020. That's a good thing. However, at this stage of our discussions and reflections, we must consider the financial means made necessary by the measures that we are going to adopt. I fear – and I say it without a polemic mind – that the funds envisaged are not up to the stakes, preventing the fight against violence within the family from becoming the priority it should be. We can only regret it. I have noted Mrs Schiappa's statement that EUR 361 million should be released to combat this violence. However, I note that 95 % of this amount is only the renewal of expenditure already made between 2017 and 2019 and only 5 % of the additional resources, which I think is clearly insufficient. In order to be consistent with the measures that we will be voting for in a moment, the Government must devote new resources to this policy. I hope that he will hear us on this point, because that is how he can effectively combat violence against women. The figures speak for themselves: where France spends EUR 79 million a year to combat domestic violence, Spain spends EUR 200 million. Our neighbour experienced 48 femicides in 2018, compared to 121 in France! [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU groups]] We are going to go through this first stage in a consensual way and I thank each of my colleagues in advance. We now have to cross the second, for which the majority has the hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u8	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u9	Since the tabling of this bill last August and its consideration in this Chamber in early October, and then in the Senate a few weeks ago, the number of women killed by their companion or ex-partner has continued to increase. I said in this rostrum last October the emotion that lived in me when I noticed that this subject was finally dealt with in arm-to-body. After years of militant engagement with women victims of domestic violence, I felt a change of perception in society, giving rise to new hope. We wanted to collectively meet these strong expectations. At the end of the Grenelle against domestic violence, concrete and immediate measures were taken to better support the victims. I am thinking in particular of the hazard assessment grid, which will be a valuable aid to law enforcement in assessing the dangerousness of the situation. In this regard, I would like to reiterate that it is important for the community network and our police and gendarmerie forces to establish links in order to improve the listening and care of victims of domestic violence. The proposal for a law that you have defended in parallel with the Grenelle, rapporteur, is in line with the same logic of efficiency, since it will finally allow the use of the anti-approximation bracelet, a tool demanded by many associations and legal professionals. They rightly point out that it has proved its effectiveness in the countries that have set it up. Given the challenges and the urgency of providing concrete answers to them, it is pleased that the National Assembly and the Senate have succeeded in agreeing on this bill and in drawing up a compromise text during the Joint Joint Committee, in which I have unfortunately not been able to participate. This agreement will enable the text to be adopted before the end of the year and thus produce its effects as soon as possible. However, I would like to refer to Article 2d of the text submitted today for our approval. In this article, the Senate had made a request for a report on the exercise of parental authority and the possibility of its automatic withdrawal in the event of violence. The CMP has transformed this request for information into substantial provisions. On the substance, our group has, in principle, reservations about automatic measures in criminal law, a fortiori when they are pronounced in a pre-sentential manner. We prefer to trust the judge, even if we strengthen the tools at his disposal. Of course, the Prime Minister had made announcements at the opening of the Grenelle against domestic violence concerning this provision, a promise reiterated at the end of the Grenelle. However, we consider that the announcements of the executive do not exonerate Parliament from a real job; We would have liked this provision to be the subject of hearings, a report, an in-depth debate and the benefit of the parliamentary shuttle. Nevertheless, we take note of this and wish to support this necessary text. We are, of course, very much in favour of strengthening the protection order and the powers of the family judge. This text gives us an opportunity to raise awareness of this tool and to strengthen the complementarity between criminal and civil aspects of domestic violence. Similarly, the bill will facilitate the use of a serious danger telephone: it can now be requested by any means, including the victim or his or her lawyer, and that is a good thing. The housing provisions and the experiments provided for in article 7 are also a step forward and are particularly important to me: they aim to promote the protection of victims and to enable them to rebuild themselves. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] In conclusion, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for this text, in order to offer new legal tools to all those in need and to protect them effectively from violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u10	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u11	First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative taken by the sponsors of the bill. It enabled the Assembly to discuss the issues raised during the Grenelle against domestic violence and to reach the end of the Grenelle text. The trans-party approach that characterized its examination is very much due to the rapporteur's ability to dialogue and listen, who came from the Republican Group. I want to thank him for that. We are pleased that the CMP has maintained almost identically the important initial provisions of the bill. Those aimed at facilitating the use of the protection order, making it a mechanism known to all and a deterrent, are the heart of it; they are essential. They are inspired by the effective policy put in place by neighbouring countries, in particular Spain – I will not go back to that. The generalization of the electronic bracelet in criminal proceedings, both at the stage of immediate appearance and judicial review and at the stage of conviction for domestic violence, was expected by almost all actors facing these serious and complex situations. It is now done, and it is a major point of the law. The clarification that it is not necessary to file a complaint before applying for a protection order is welcome, as this approach is often ignored in the courts, in favour of criminal proceedings. The CMP added a provision on the removal of parental authority from the abusive spouse. While we can only satisfy ourselves, in substance, with such a measure, we can regret, however, as legislators, that it was introduced into the CMP, which deprives us of a debate on this point. I would also like to express two minor regrets about this text. On the one hand, the acquisition and possession of weapons will be prohibited to persons against whom a protection order has been issued if and only if the family court decides, and not automatically. In my view, we could have simplified our life on this subject. On the other hand, article 1 B, which provided that registration in the current register could not replace the filing of complaints in the event of domestic violence, was not accepted. The argument that there is no procedural existence in the current system does not seem to me to reflect reality. The handrails do exist, and the victims of domestic violence regularly use them instead of a complaint. This text is useful, but a comprehensive reform organising the fight against domestic violence, both preventive and repressive, and addressing the financial aspect remains expected. Perhaps the second bill, which you have mentioned, the minister, will complete the scheme. I would like to make three remarks, based on the findings of local actors and victims on the ground. First, the precise organisation of actors in the territory and their respective roles should be discussed here. Secondly, the filing of a complaint is painful and dangerous. It is therefore necessary to provide for the support of victims who the police or gendarmerie officer is not in a position to provide, given his workload and the multiple priorities that he needs. It is therefore the social workers placed with the gendarmerie groups or the police stations who are intended to enable immediate care to be taken in the face of situations which require time to apprehend. The Prime Minister has announced the creation of eighty positions by 2021, and that is a very good thing. However, we find it difficult to wait that long if we want to make the fight against violence against women effective now. In addition, although the fight against social insecurity falls within the scope of the compulsory competences of the departmental councils, only a few of them have agreed to participate in the financing of such posts. In my view, it would be useful to generalize the scheme with the support of the State. Thirdly, the judicial path of victims of domestic violence is complex and costly so that they suffer a double penalty – I raised this issue with you yesterday, Madam Minister. We want to avoid the most serious form of such violence, murder, and that justifies taking immediate action. However, beyond mourning, the family is deprived of the legal process and the significant legal costs it entails. Therefore, substantial information must be provided by the public service of justice, by any means. In addition, the amount of legal aid is too low to allow the victim's family to use the lawyer of their choice. We must transform this system into a lump sum payment that can be recovered when the perpetrator is solvent and ensure that the public service of justice ensures that each of its rights is informed. This text is an undeniable step forward. We will vote without reservation, and we will all observe, here and in the territories, the way in which it is implemented. More than 220,000 women are victims of domestic violence each year; Since 1 January last, 142 women have died under the blows of their spouses. In this context, we must continue our efforts and complement these legislative provisions with budgetary and other concrete measures, including those I have just outlined, which correspond to the real suffering of the victims. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Socialist and Related Group will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u12	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u13	An agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee is always the result of constructive parliamentary work. I welcome the approach taken by the rapporteur during the examination of the proposed law: it is based on partnership and is of particular importance in the circumstances. The text we are discussing today reflects in particular the trans-party commitment to better protect victims of domestic violence. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I, like you, welcome the content of the debate. I thank you for the way in which you have approached it and for the openness you have shown with regard to the proposals we have made. It was useful and welcome. The challenges posed by such violence are multiple. Commissioned within the intimacy of families, they are difficult to characterize, prove and denounce. In addition, they are often not well known. While legislation and measures have already been adopted to combat such violence, this CMP may be more important than others in view of the urgency of complementing our arsenal of prevention, protection and condemnation of such violence. The bill achieves these objectives. We fully support the introduction of new and indispensable devices such as the anti-approximation bracelet or housing aids. Similarly, the changes in the regime of the protection order and the terms of use of the serious danger telephone, in both civil and criminal proceedings – as you pointed out, Madam Minister – will allow the judge to act faster, more concretely and more effectively. I come to the question of parental authority. While there is an urgent need to protect direct victims of violence, it is equally urgent, in our view, to protect children. The protection of victims must be our only compass. The maintenance of parental authority is often, as we know very well, the element that allows the violent spouse to retain his or her control and to re-act, sometimes to murder. Usually, in my opinion, parliamentary work needs time. In this case, every minute counts – I'm not used to saying it – because it's about saving lives. The provision on the withdrawal of parental authority therefore has its full place in this text, which is intended to be implemented quickly. In essence, it does not matter who is responsible for the authorship of the measure. We can only regret the time lost between 25 November 2017 and today. We agree with all the provisions of this text and hope that the debate on the proposed law that will follow the Grenelle will take place in the same spirit. I wish for it, Madam Keeper of the Seals; We will work with you. It is always possible to improve our legal structure by adopting texts, but that does not do everything – I would like to stress it. In cases of domestic violence, one sometimes targets one or another – police officer, magistrate, doctor, neighbour... – because he or she did not react in the right way. This is too easy, because responsibility is not individual; It is the responsibility of a system that remains deficient in its entirety. To put an end to this situation, to improve the treatment of this violence from one end of the infernal chain that allows them to prosper, the road will still be long after the passage of this bill. On the financial side, I am speaking to the Government: all the necessary funds will have to be made available to implement the measures adopted, to support the medical and social environment and, above all, to educate our fellow citizens and to train all the professionals involved in this violence, from close to or from afar. The lack of resources is multifaceted, as it affects justice, associations, the prison environment and rehabilitation, as well as the medical world. We know that attractive figures are being put forward – Mrs Schiappa announces them with great reinforcement of communication – but a more in-depth examination – of which we are capable – reveals very quickly that only a mediocre part of the billion so much mentioned is actually devoted to the subject that concerns us. Let's look at this data together, Madam Keeper of Seals – that is the meaning of my point. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir groups and on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – Mr. Jean-Yves Bony also applauds]] The UDI-Agir and Independent Group welcomes the work done and will vote on this text, but will not be fooled as to the scale of the challenges that still need to be addressed in order to finally stem this violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u14	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u15	The total number of women killed under the blows of their spouse is now 142 according to the group Feminicides by companions or ex, which lists them on its Facebook page. Navigate on this page, where these femicides are geolocalized and accompanied by a description, ice the blood and revulse the consciousness. The 140th murder occurred on Wednesday 4 December, at the place called La Pilais, next to Corsept in the Loire-Atlantique. Laetitia Landreau, 34, was crushed by her husband. The car bears the stigma of the violent shock. Nicole, 141st, was killed with a knife, and Sabrina Ruffe, the latest, was killed with a gun. I could also cite other equally revolting examples, such as Julie Douib's murder in Corsica last March, also by gun. A victim of domestic violence for several years, she had filed five complaints – I say five. The justice system claimed to have dealt with all complaints, but it must be noted that there are enormous shortcomings in the fight against domestic violence. On the basis of this observation shared by all of us, but with far too little answers, the Government has wished to launch the Grenelle des violences conjugales – an approach that we welcome. The measures announced by the Prime Minister on 25 November are welcome: partial lifting of medical confidentiality in case of immediate danger to the victims; protective measures for women at work and those with disabilities; the creation of eighty additional positions of social workers in police stations and brigades, or the inclusion of "the right-of-way" in the Civil Code and the Criminal Code. However, the practical application of all the measures announced can be questioned until the financial means follow. There are many issues of concern; I shall mention only places of accommodation, prevention, or methods of education. The financial means were also one of the main demands of the 150,000 people who demonstrated on 23 November, at the call of the collective We all! According to the report of the High Council for Equality, "Where is the money against violence against women?" , published at the end of 2018, it would take between 500 million and 1 billion euros to claim to fight effectively. The proposal for a law by Aurélien Pradié – which I greet – is part of the action initiated after the indignations aroused by the # MeToo movement. It proposes the necessary progress for the benefit of the victims. We repeat: hesitations, delays must stop. Since the law of 9 July 2010 on violence specifically against women, supplemented by article 39 of the law of 28 February 2017, the possibility of experimenting with the anti-approximation bracelet for a period of three years has not really been exploited. That is why we support without hesitation the measure to generalize this system. We also support the reduction of the time limit for issuing a protection order to six days. The average delay, currently of one and a half months, does not respond to the urgency of the situation and may even constitute a major risk. Experimentation in favour of rehousing also seems to us to be an interesting measure. Too often, victims are faced with a loss of autonomy, an intolerable precariousness, partly fuelled by the loss of housing. The text resulting from the Joint Joint Committee has, for its part, evolved quite substantially in comparison with the text adopted by the National Assembly, with the force of some of its repressive provisions. [[Smile]] Several new articles have indeed been adopted, and not least – I am thinking of Article 2d which introduces the principle suspension of parental authority, in the event of a crime or prosecution for a crime against the spouse. We have no major objection to this acceleration allowed by the parliamentary shuttle – even though the conditions for its adoption in the Joint Joint Committee have been, let us say, experimental. But you know our commitment to the experiment and sovereignty of the legislative power! We also note the adoption of an article 2 octies providing that the survivor's pension is not due in the event of a conviction of the surviving spouse for violence committed against the other spouse. If the subject has been dealt with very little in our assembly, it seems to be a great deal that the perpetrator of the violence can benefit from it. This provision can be reconciled with the abolition, announced in the Grenelle framework, of the child's maintenance obligation vis-à-vis the murderous parent. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on several benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups. – Mr. Jean-Yves Bony also applauds]] In the end, ladies and gentlemen, because the untenable counter for victims of domestic violence is not slowing down, the Libertés et territoires Group will vote in favour of this bill, which, in our view, is a step forward, at the same time as a symbol of our ability to unite in a trans-partisan manner to combat the intolerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u16	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u17	I should like to mention in the preamble the absence on our benches of Mrs Schiappa, Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and for Combating Discrimination. However, today we are considering a text to address violence against women. His absence initialled the choice of the Government, which, with false announcements in Grenelle without means, made the "great cause of the quinquennium" an object of communication first and foremost. I will not go further in the comment on this empty chair. I come to the substance of the text before us today, welcoming the fact that specific violence is now the subject of regular parliamentary debates, which are of increasing interest to Members of all sides, women and men. Some of the provisions of this bill bodes well for me – I am thinking in particular of facilitating the issuance of a protection order for victims of domestic violence. Others, on the other hand, do not seem to us to be appropriate and should be discussed in depth. To automate the suspension or even withdrawal of parental authority is absolutely not self-evident. [[Mrs Auconia acquiesce]] Ms. Auconie was right to point out that children often allowed blackmail to continue harassment or violence against the former spouse. In addition, a father who strikes his wife clearly traumatizes his children and raises concern about his ability to care for them. But then, what would we say about a father who killed people or who lives on pimps? We commit ourselves in a logic to handling with the utmost caution. Breaking down any connection between a child and his or her father is not a minor legal change. That is why I urge us to be careful not to legislate under the legitimate emotion that we all feel, at a time when the testimonies of women victims of domestic violence are finally spreading in our public debate. As a whole, the text leaves us with a bitter taste: it says in hollow the shortcomings of government policy and marries the only register of repression. Have we really heard the cry of the protestors of # WeAll, and beyond all those who marched on the street or express themselves abundantly on social networks? What they are asking for, what we are urgently asking for, is EUR 1 billion. One billion for women who are victims of domestic violence is not so much when we know that the government has been able to find, for example, 1.3 billion for the richest, by abolishing the solidarity tax on wealth. We want more subsidies for associations, better care for victims, emergency accommodation, training for health workers, police officers and magistrates. We demand greater prevention work, so that the macabre count stops. I regret, ladies and gentlemen, that the amendments proposed by our group to this effect have not been accepted. Because with this text, we put a hammer on a screw. No words are written on education and prevention; absolutely nothing is done for the accompaniment of violent men: this subject is not taken seriously,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u18	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u19	...which poses a real problem when you know the importance of recidivism. What ambition and urgency commanded, this law covered itself with eyes to avoid seeing it. While every murder, every blow, every insult, every threat comes to us. All those who broke into the street yell at us to open our eyes and ears wide. We have to listen to them, ladies and gentlemen. A month ago, Adèle Haenel's incandescent speech, of tremendous political foresight, prompted us to question the relationships of domination at work within our society. Let's hear it when she says this beautiful phrase: "Monsters don't exist. Those who are violent and violent are our fathers and brothers, the men we live with every day. Let's hear it when she tells us that we cannot isolate people from society and that there are collective responsibilities. We must recognize the specific nature of violence against women, that is, first and foremost to recognize their systemic nature. If we want to stop them, we must intervene on the whole chain, not only with geolocation and floor penalties. We cannot simply act when evil is done, even if action is then indispensable. Here more than anywhere else, perhaps, it's the whole plate tectonic we have to face. But this bill, by moving only one of the plates, in a way that is not entirely satisfactory, is not up to the point of responding to the words that emerge. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Murmures or exclamations on many benches of the LR, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the group La France insoumée will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u20	That's too bad, it's a breakthrough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u21	It's all because it's a proposition from the Republican Group!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u22	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u23	As the number of femicides and the massive phenomenon of domestic violence continue to grow, the urgency and seriousness of the situation prompt us to act immediately, concretely and effectively. We therefore welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, through which we can now vote – what we are going to do – for an important step in the fight against domestic violence, by further protecting victims and strengthening their material and legal guarantees. To reach a republican consensus on this serious problem is necessary because too often, behind statistics and declarations of intent, strong acts remain insufficient. Of course, the legislative arsenal to combat domestic violence has been considerably strengthened in fifteen years. However, the effectiveness of the devices deserves to be questioned. Violence within the family spares no social environment, no territory, no generation. Such violence is manifest and a major obstacle to the elimination of gender inequalities. They take many forms; they can be verbal, psychological, physical, sexual, economic. They can begin at the beginning of a relationship, after years of common life or at the time of separation. We are therefore satisfied with the provisions contained in this bill, which provides essential tools to protect victims of domestic violence and prevent the occurrence of such violence. I am thinking in particular of the strengthening of the protection order and the reduction of the time limit for issue, set at six days from the date of referral to the judge. The protection order may also be issued in the absence of cohabitation, in the event of violence within the couple or a former couple. Similarly, the ease of access to the serious danger telephone and the provision of personalized housing support for victims of domestic violence are, in our view, notable advances. We also believe that it is necessary to prohibit the family judge from proposing a mediation measure for a consensual exercise of parental authority when domestic violence is alleged. In addition, we are particularly pleased that the possibility of suspending the exercise of parental authority by perpetrators of violence within the couple is included in the law. As many legal professionals point out, this system is part of an evolution that is essential to better protect mother and child. It's about realizing that a violent husband can't be a good father. When a man is violent with his wife, a climate of terror is established in the child's daily life, which seriously affects his construction and development. In this regard, a study conducted in November 2018 by the Observatory for Violence against Women of the Seine-Saint-Denis Departmental Council confirms quite rightly that violence in the couple also has a particularly negative impact on the psychological, neurological and social well-being of the child exposed to it. Finally, I cannot conclude without recalling that this bill, as the fight against domestic violence more generally, can only be effective if significant budgetary resources are deployed at the same time – as the rapporteur has said. However, with regard to this aspect, the announcements made on 25 November last at the conclusion of the Grenelle des violences conjugales are, to say the least, disappointing. The budget remains largely insufficient: the 360 million mentioned by the Prime Minister almost corresponds to the 2019 budget. That is why we recall that, according to the High Council for Equality between Women and Men, it would take 500 million a year to protect women filing complaints, and that more than 1 billion should be mobilized to protect all women at risk reporting domestic violence without necessarily being identified by law enforcement. Before confirming the vote in favour of the GDR Group, I should like, because it is quite rare for a text to be the subject of consensus in our House, to welcome the method used. Without trying to get close to political news, I prefer the method of trying to bring together...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u25	...to help our country win the victory of humiliating adversaries...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u26	The word is a little loud!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] ... or social mobilizations, and to inflict a defeat on our country. I prefer victories to defeats, rallying to division. It would be welcome if this example were a source of inspiration, especially in these complicated days!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u28	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u29	Like all of you, I'm currently spending the weekends on my territory where I'm going from the Christmas market to the old people's dinner. I speak with our fellow citizens, who frequently ask me what we are doing in the National Assembly. If the news feeds the conversation, people wonder about our activity. Very often, when I talk about domestic violence and the bill that we are studying, the faces close, the noise of conversations fades and an embarrassment arises until I say that this time we have worked differently: we have sought not confrontation but consensus, we have tried to bring out the common good in our debates and we have worked so that, in the face of a major problem in our country, public action is more coherent and consistent. Given this pedagogy of urgency and consensus, and the fact that we have managed to convince our fellow citizens that we must act now and quickly, I deeply regret, Clementine Autain, that you are breaking the consensus by deciding to abstain on the bill, even though the Joint Joint Committee has allowed for new agreements. That really seems a shame to me. The La République en marche group is fully involved and engaged with the Government in the fight against domestic violence. Within the framework of the Grenelle, many trips have been organized in each region of France, combining meetings and public meetings, so that we can submit a set of concrete proposals to the Government. This was possible because we worked together on this construction. Each of us knows what he has brought and what we have actually done, putting ourselves all around a table to talk and to invent. This work, we have carried it out to the end, including at the Joint Joint Committee meeting, sometimes agree, in a somewhat baroque way, but by achieving a result commensurate with the stakes. We will of course vote for this text. I welcome this, because I think we are going to do a useful job. The drafting resulting from the CMP achieves different objectives. The first is to provide better care for victims at all stages of their efforts. The text facilitates and extends the issuance of the protection order. The deadlines will be shortened. The absence of a complaint will no longer constitute a ground for refusal in this regard. The protection order may be issued even without cohabitation. The acquisition or possession of weapons will be prohibited for persons against whom the order has been issued. The second objective is to protect victims by providing shelter. The Government has announced that an additional 5 million will be mobilized to create 1,000 new shelters and emergency housing. A total of 750 places will be created in collective structures, thanks to the mobilisation of the temporary housing allowance. The text provides for the introduction of an experimental system of personalized housing assistance for victims who are covered by a protection order. A steering committee will follow the process. The third objective is to ensure that effective mechanisms are in place to remove violent spouses and ex-spouses. The obligation to wear an anti-approximation bracelet, a subject on which I have worked a lot, can be pronounced even when people do not live together. It will be provided for under the probation obligations with probation. It will also be done in the context of mobile electronic house arrest and in cases of verbal appearance or immediate appearance. The bracelet can only be put in place when the penalty is at least three years' imprisonment – sanctioning all forms of violence and threats – with the consent of the parties. The final text also provides that the serious danger telephone will be handed over on the victim's request by the Public Prosecutor's Office, even in the absence of a referral to the family court. The automaticity of sentencing reductions is eliminated when the abusive spouse has not been treated. The final objective is to ensure the protection of children, who are collateral victims of violence, by reforming current legislation on parental authority. I welcome the collective commitment that has emerged on this subject. The CMP introduced a new case of forced delegation of parental authority, in the event of a conviction for a crime against the spouse's person, as well as an automatic suspension of parental authority for six months, in the event of a prosecution or conviction for a crime against the spouse's person. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Is all this an end? No, of course not. We are at the forefront of a policy based, I would remind you, on the nation's deep conviction that this scourge must be eradicated. This policy will continue with the consideration of the draft law of the La République en marche group, of which Bérangère Couillard will be rapporteur. It will also continue because we have managed to convince the French that the fight against domestic violence is at the heart of the nation's duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u30	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u31	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the two amendments before me. On the vote on the draft law in the text of the Joint Joint Committee, I have a request from the Republicans Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. On Amendment No 1, I also have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr President, can you present the amendments Nos 1 and 2 to us?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u32	I will simply introduce the first amendment, the second one to coordinate the proper implementation of the bill in the overseas communities governed by Article 74 of the Constitution, which is important, but which is not debated. The Joint Joint Committee significantly strengthened the initial text discussed in the National Assembly and then debated in the Senate on parental authority. This crucial subject is of the same urgency as the physical protection of women for a very simple reason: in a large majority of cases there is a link between the transition to action and the common exercise of parental authority. A large number of femicides are committed during the passage of arms, i.e. when the mother brings the child to the father, who is responsible for the care or accommodation of the child. Moreover, when a woman wants to protect herself, she must hide, which is not the best situation for her, in order to prevent the violent companion from finding her. To do this, you have to hide his address. However, when parental authority continues to be shared, the father must obviously be aware of the address, if not of the mother's home, at least of the school attended by the child, where the two parents meet and potentially endanger the woman. It is clear, therefore, that parental authority must be placed among the issues to be addressed urgently: the physical protection of women depends on it. In this regard, we have obtained a consensus: the Joint Joint Committee unanimously voted for a wording providing – in addition to the suspension of parental authority within the framework of the protection order, at the heart of our bill – for the automatic and immediate suspension of parental authority as soon as a sentence for crimes against spouses has been handed down, which includes, in addition to femicide, acts of rape, torture or barbarism. The automatic suspension of parental authority cannot be debated. We have taken every intellectual precaution – I say it to Clementine Autain: in the event of a move to act or femicide, there is no place for a debate on the maintenance or suspension of parental authority. But we wanted to go further, deciding that an automatic suspension of parental authority would take place from the stage of prosecution for charges of crimes against spouses, on which the judge will decide after a period of six months. This will allow for the suspension of parental authority not only in the context of the move to the act, which is an absolute fact, but also in the case of prosecution, i.e. where there is consistent and significant evidence of a charge for crimes against spouses, which will help to protect children. Amendment No 1 makes editorial changes to the text resulting from the CMP, which shows a significant change. It also provides a supplement due to an initiative of the Government, which I gladly resume on my behalf, according to which parental authority will be suspended in case of prosecution from the first instance, and even – since it is a matter of prevention – in case of appeal or appeal in cassation. Amendment No 1 is making significant progress in meeting the expectations of society, associations, legal actors, including lawyers, and families. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] On this subject, however, we will have to go further. In the context of future legislative proposals, we will have to deal with equally serious violence, which is not, however, considered as crimes in our penal code, but which we will have to ask ourselves with extreme rigour if they should not automatically lead to the suspension of parental authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u33	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u34	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u35	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u36	We will vote on the amendments. Given the urgency of the matter, we went quickly, but it must be understood that, in some cases, the exercise of parental authority serves as a pretext for, or creates an opportunity for, violence. The rapporteur has described perfectly the details of the amendments, which we support, while knowing that the work does not end there. I am of course thinking of the bill that will soon be debated, on the initiative of the Republic on the move, of which Mrs Couillard will be rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u37	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u38	The members of the IUD, Action and Independent Group will go in the same direction by adopting the amendments, which tend to strengthen the protective arrangements put in place. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I very much regret that our colleague Clementine Autain does not want to vote for this text, which I believe is the first concrete and effective tool for protecting victims and their children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u39	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u40	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 96 Number of votes cast 96 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 96 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u41	I shall put to the vote the whole of the bill, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendments just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u42	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 95 Number of votes cast 92 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 92 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u43	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u44	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u45	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of two bills authorizing the approval of international conventions and agreements (No 1976, 2375; 2043, 2374). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put to the vote each of them, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u46	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy (No. 2274, 2454).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u47	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with Amendment No. 1159 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u48	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 1159.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u49	I hope that today we will have the most constructive discussions possible. This amendment is part of the collective momentum of our work on this text. It is intended to clarify that the manufacturer not only informs the professional seller of the availability of essential spare parts, but also "of their prices and the nearest place of availability". It is a question of supplementing the information on spare parts, used by our citizens to repair their products and extend their lifespan. This clarification seems important to us, as it allows for more informed choices, giving more precise information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u50	Mrs Véronique Riotton, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u51	Unfavorable opinion. Indeed, prices diverge according to the commercial relations between producers and distributors, so that it is not possible to indicate this information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u52	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u53	Mr Lambert, I understand the reasons for your amendment; They are quite laudable. However, several questions arise. First of all, the price of spare parts may vary over time, as you will agree. Then, if it is interesting to know the price of spare parts, the most expensive in a repair, it is rarely these parts. Very often, it is the necessary labour and other costs. Thus, the information you propose to add would often be of very limited interest. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u54	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u55	Indeed, the question of the relevance of price information arises. However, the amendment was also intended to introduce information on where to find spare parts. Madam Secretary of State, you are right: very often, what discourages an object from being repaired is less the price of spare parts than not knowing where to find them. Coins can cost 1 euro or 30 cents, whatever, when you don't know where to find them, there's a problem. Could you table a sub-amendment to keep the reference to where the spare parts are by deleting the reference to their price? If we don't fix it, it's mostly because we don't really know where to find the spare parts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u56	Identical amendments Nos 81 by Mr Vincent Descoeur and 1731 by Mrs Danielle Brulebois are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u57	Unfavorable opinion. These amendments are already satisfied. The date of expiry of the availability of spare parts will be specified in the decree. Above all, it will be defined from the last date of placing on the market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u58	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u59	Indeed, in its current wording, section 4 of the bill provides that the manufacturer informs the seller "of the period or date until which" the spare parts are available on the market. The amendments are satisfied, I ask that they be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u60	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1117.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u61	With the same logic as the amendments just defended, we propose that the professional seller be informed of the period during which "and" the date on which the spare parts are available on the market, and not of either "or" of the other. Thus, it will be easier to know the date of availability of the parts, at the traders, as well as at the exporters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u63	Unfavorable opinion. It is often more appropriate to indicate a period than a date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u65	Mr President, your proposal is commendable. However, Article 4 already provides that "the date until" the spare parts are available and "the period during which" they are available. The calculation will in any case be easy for the consumer. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, which is already satisfied; Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u66	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u67	In view of what the Secretary of State has just said, I withdraw the amendment from which Mr Ian Boucard was the first signatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u68	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 30, 786 and 1350. Amendments Nos 30 by Mr Dino Cinieri and 786 by Mr Hubert Wulfranc are being defended. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 1350.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u69	The amendment, of which Bertrand Pancher is the first signatory, aims to introduce a minimum ten-year spare parts availability period.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u70	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u71	I will take the time to elaborate on my answer, because many amendments deal with this question of duration – so my explanation will also be used for the following ones. The European Directive on the ecodesign of energy-related products and its implementing regulations already provide for minimum availability periods for parts of certain electrical and electronic appliances: at least seven years for refrigeration equipment, ten years for washing machines or dishwashers. Your proposals would go far beyond European law, targeting all electrical and electronic products. This is not relevant for all the documents concerned. That is why we propose that the minimum period of availability be set at five years, knowing that it is possible to go beyond that, provided that the constraints imposed by European law in this field are respected. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u73	The minimum availability of spare parts depends on three factors: the type of products, their technical characteristics and their duration of use. Setting a minimum period of availability – whether ten years, as in the same amendments, or another period, as in the subsequent amendments – would be counterproductive, because the period set will always be too long for some products, and too short for others. I will also take the example of dishwashers, some of which will have to be available for five to seven years. This duration, which seems to be quite long and satisfactory for use by private individuals, may prove to be quite insufficient for a professional dishwasher. In order to regulate things too rigidly, there is a risk of preventing even more environmentally friendly devices from being retained. If too rigid a period is not to be fixed, it is also because the repairability index includes in its criteria the duration of availability of spare parts. I have taken the time for a long reply because these arguments will also be valid for the following amendments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u74	The rapporteur's amendment No 1584 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u75	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 1893.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u76	Article 4, paragraph 2, provides that the period of availability of spare parts shall be fixed by decree in the Council of State. There is therefore no need to define one in the law – even if it is minimal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u78	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u79	The minimum availability periods already exist. Request for withdrawal and, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u80	Amendment No 1047 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u81	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 2148.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u82	It aims to ensure access to spare parts at a cost after the legal guarantees have been extinguished. We have discussed in committee the difficulty of setting this price. By this amendment, I propose that its calculation procedures should be determined by the channels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u83	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u84	The amendment is satisfied by the provisions of Article 4c C. Request for withdrawal or unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u86	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u87	Do you maintain the amendment, Madame de Vaucouleurs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u88	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u89	Amendments Nos 300 and 1895 by Mr Jean-Yves Bony are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on both amendments? - Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u90	The aim of these amendments is to extend the time limit for making spare parts available, although we would like them to be available as soon as possible. The committee will be opposed to any amendment to extend the waiting time for spare parts to be made available.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u91	They need time to arrive in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u93	The European texts provide that spare parts must be available within 15 days. I can only deliver an unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u94	I call Mrs Mirallès to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u95	As certain repairs may be made by the consumer, it is normal for the consumer to be able, if he wishes, to obtain the necessary spare parts for this purpose, without necessarily going through a seller or a repairer. The amendment is intended to oblige the manufacturer or importer to supply spare parts within two months not only professional sellers and repairers, whether approved or not, but also consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u96	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u97	Dear colleague, we cannot debate the substance of your amendment, because it is unrelated to paragraph 4, on the availability of spare parts. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u98	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u99	I am not an expert in legistics, but I am aware of the importance of self-repair. However, there are potential security risks. We must be extremely vigilant and rigorous in this regard. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u100	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u101	We discussed this issue in committee. I had tabled an amendment that I was suggested to rewrite, which I did for consideration in open session, in accordance with what I was asked to do. I am quite surprised that I am asked to withdraw it on the grounds that it does not fit into the correct paragraph. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u102	It's happening!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u103	No one is obliged to believe the promises made to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u104	The amendment, however, came from the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u105	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 615.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u106	This is a precise amendment. In the event that the seller requests spare parts outside their availability period, the manufacturer – or importer – cannot be required to supply them within 30 days, which seems a little short, or, a fortiori, within 15 days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u108	The amendment is contrary to the spirit of section 4, or indeed of the bill as a whole, which is characterized by the desire to encourage product repair. For it to be effective, spare parts must be available quickly and, above all, the product must be repaired in less than a month. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u110	The Consumer Code already provides that, if a seller or importer provides information on the duration of spare parts availability, then he is obliged to provide it if requested. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u111	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u112	Madam rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, I fully agree with you. The amendment is only intended to clarify that the time limit applicable during the period of availability of documents cannot be applied in the same way when a request is made outside that period. This is an amendment of precision, free from controversy. We are pursuing the same objective. Simply, the delay cannot be the same in one case and the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u113	I call Mr Damien Adam to support Amendment No. 1641.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u114	This amendment has been worked on with the French Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Committee (CCFA) and deals with the deadlines for the provision of spare parts, which the bill reduces to 15 days. I would like to draw attention to the fact that such a time limit is not always compatible with the constraints on spare parts requiring adequate production and longer supply times. This applies in particular to certain spare parts used for the repair of vehicles. If the spare parts supplies of mass-produced vehicles are daily and always available in quantity, as the manufacturing lines are still in operation, the special features of the car market do not allow the supply of the spare parts of vehicles which are no longer produced in series to be ensured within the same time limits. The aim of the amendment is therefore to distinguish mass-produced goods from non- mass-produced goods, by extending the time limit for the availability of spare parts for vehicles which are no longer produced in series to 45 days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u116	For many products, it will certainly be necessary to provide for exemptions. To this end, the text provides for the definition by decree of the modalities for the application of several provisions of article 4. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u118	[[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Damien Adam, thank you for your involvement in these matters. I know how much you've worked there, very seriously and for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u119	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u120	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] I'm not exaggerating at all! Last October, even though he was particularly busy on the ground because of the fire at the Lubrizol plant, Mr. Adam found time to continue the work he had begun with my firm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u121	The best of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u122	As far as the amendment is concerned, however, I should like to point out that the European ecodesign regulations provide for a period of 15 working days for the supply of spare parts, whether or not they are produced in series. We are obliged – and we are doing so with great enthusiasm – to comply with European directives and regulations. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u123	Mr Damien Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u124	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your kind words to me. As regards the decree referred to by the rapporteur, can you at least make the commitment that this subject will be discussed, or at least studied, when it is drawn up, with a view to distinguishing the case of spare parts which are not produced in series? Depending on the reply of the Secretary of State to this question, I shall withdraw the amendment or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u125	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u126	Of course, we will work together in the drafting of the decrees implementing Article 4. I'm used to saying – please excuse me if I rattle! – that this bill is just the beginning of our work, which will continue during the drafting of implementing orders. I thank the departments of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, well represented here, for their past and future work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u127	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2542.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u128	It deals with the 3D printing technique, about which we have made some progress in committee – I have no doubt that several colleagues will take the floor after me. The idea is that while the provision of plans for the printing of a product in 3D is a real step forward, much expected by the actors concerned, some spare parts are protected by intellectual property legislation. The amendment is intended to ensure this protection. I am delighted that we have succeeded in incorporating this provision into the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u130	Favourable opinion. I am very pleased that we have managed to find a balance. 3D printing is fundamental. It is a real industrial tool for the 21st century. Its development must be allowed and, at the same time, intellectual property rights must not be adversely affected. The balance that we have reached removes the mortgage which weighs on the provisions adopted in committee. This balanced solution makes it possible to advance and draft a bill adapted to the 21st century, while protecting industrialists and business secrecy. We can all rejoice in that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u131	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u132	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u133	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, who made it possible to achieve this "at the same time", by promoting the 3D printing industry while securing industrialists, who had concerns about respect for intellectual property. The possibility of manufacturing 3D spare parts, since they are no longer available on the market, is entirely in line with the bill put forward by the Secretary of State. It is in keeping with its spirit of promoting the repair and manufacture of products at the corner of the street, which appear socially, economically and environmentally more responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u134	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u135	3D printing is an excellent solution, and thanks to this innovation, you can now have a small gear, a small pushbutton fixed at the corner of your street, in refreshments or recycling facilities. We will talk about this later, but we will have to give these structures, not only the right to print parts in 3D, but also the economic means to function.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u136	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 80, 490, 555, 580 and 645, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 490, 555, 580 and 645 are identical. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u137	This amendment proposes to make it clear that "the market is supplied by market makers, without intermediary, with spare parts for all professional repairers". Currently, distribution is not fair, as some repairers do not have access to spare parts under the same conditions as others. We propose to put an end to this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u138	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 490.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u139	This amendment by our colleague Dino Cinieri aims to introduce the obligation for a manufacturer or importer to deliver the spare parts directly to all professional repairers with the APE code – the main activity carried out – in relation to the product concerned, beyond a price threshold fixed by decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u140	I call Mr Guy Bricout to support Amendment No. 555.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u141	In line with what has just been said, I would point out that independent repairers are penalized compared to those who can obtain direct supplies from major brands. I therefore make the same proposal as the speakers who have just spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u142	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 580 can be considered to have already been defended, if the latter agrees. I call Mr Vatin to support Amendment No. 645.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u143	The measure we propose would be good for small businesses, which do not have access to large networks and which seek to offer the best prices: intermediaries are still, as we know, helping to raise prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u145	We all want to facilitate the access of repairers to spare parts. Nevertheless, requiring manufacturers to deliver repairers through their own transport systems seems extremely burdensome, as they may need to use carriers, who are themselves intermediaries. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u147	The sale of spare parts by the manufacturer to repairers, without intermediary, is one of the criteria used to construct the repairability index. This information can therefore be obtained. Of course, the use of intermediaries can lead to additional costs; But it seems to me legally very difficult to force an economic actor to sell its products using a fixed channel and at a fixed price. This seems to me to be contrary to the economic philosophy of the group The Republicans... Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u148	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u149	It is not a question of forcing manufacturers to use a predefined sales circuit, but of opening up possibilities! We all want to facilitate the repair of appliances, and it is a shame not to facilitate the lives of professional repairers: they will have a great role to play, notably through advice and consumer support. So it would have been good to send them a signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u150	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u151	The transport argument used by the rapporteur seems to me to be of little relevance today, given the development of transport and courier services. Freedom of access to the supplier is a concept that seems very simple to me, and which would have had its full place in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u152	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1956.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u153	Article L. 224-67 of the Consumer Code, issued by the Act of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth, requires motor vehicle maintenance and repair professionals to offer consumers "to opt for the use, for certain categories of spare parts, of parts from the circular economy instead of new parts". We can congratulate ourselves on that. I am fortunate to have, in my constituency, a beautiful family business that recycles car parts; We inaugurated a few months ago its new factory, which allows to recycle the parts of two wheels. This avant-garde company will soon extend recycling to industrial vehicles. These three activities will be proposed over the same area, which is unique in Europe. This amendment proposes to complement existing legislation by extending the obligation to offer parts from the circular economy to professionals in the maintenance and repair of two- or three-wheeled vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u155	Very favorable opinion: it is a device that has proven its worth for the automobile; All we have to do is replicate it for other types of vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u157	This very beautiful proposal is fully in line with the philosophy of the text, which already envisages extending the sectors with extended responsibility of producers – REP – or polluter-pays sectors, to two-wheelers. The provision of spare parts from the circular economy has proved its worth in the automotive sector: it works well! We have to extend it to the two-wheelers. We were talking earlier about favouring small repairers: this is an amendment that makes it possible to move forward very concretely and to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u158	Yes! We will vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u159	I am therefore very much in favour of this amendment, and thank you, Madam Commissioner, for your involvement. You have made me aware of the many initiatives that have taken place in your constituency, which has helped me to express my opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u160	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u161	[[Smile]] Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your enthusiasm; I will also support this amendment. It is based on an article in the law on the energy transition for green growth, resulting from an amendment that I myself defended – it's always good to remember. Madam Secretary of State, we need to move forward. I only say that these are not coins from the circular economy, but re-use coins: these are important terms that must be used wisely. We are talking here about deconstruction, and then re-use parts re-injected into the circuits. This whole process begins very slowly in the automotive world, as our colleague has told us. Its extension to two- or three-wheeled vehicles is extremely sensible, provided, Madam Secretary of State, that we can afford it. However, it seems that the decree on new practices resulting from the adoption of my amendment, in force since 1 January 2017, is not really operational, and that it does not satisfy the players in the automotive sector. The Government will have to take responsibility and draft regulations that require two- or three-wheel vehicle repairers to offer customers re-use parts as a real alternative to new parts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u162	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 616.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u163	The aim of this amendment is to improve the safety of motorists. Road safety is a common concern; It starts well before the road, from the design of the vehicles. Motor vehicles cannot therefore be repaired or maintained with parts from the circular economy if their wear and tear poses a risk to road safety. The exception for safety reasons is mentioned later in the text for medical equipment; It is therefore not clear why this would not be the case for the repair of cars.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u165	Parts from the circular economy must have the same security guarantees as new parts. The law already provides a guarantee in this regard. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u167	Same opinion. It's already provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u168	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u169	In this case, why is the safety requirement explicitly mentioned for medical equipment? Why the difference?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u170	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u171	The Secretary of State and the rapporteur are absolutely right. Just read the text... We were very careful. The implementing decrees define the parts that can be reused; They're still body parts, and obviously not brakes or shock absorbers. On this point, the texts are operational – unlike the point I was calling your attention to earlier, Madam Secretary of State. I insist: the texts, written by your predecessors, are now responsible for the poor dynamics of the re-employment coin market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u172	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 332.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u173	This text wishes to generalize the use of parts from the re-use or circular economy in place of new parts. I agree with that objective. I think it is necessary for the law to be more incentiveful. While allowing consumers the freedom of choice and therefore the complete freedom to require new spare parts from the repairer, it is desirable that the trader should be required to be environmentally more virtuous and to offer the consumer priority parts from the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u175	When these pieces are available, the repairer has no interest in not taking advantage of this offer. Therefore, I do not think this clarification is necessary. On the other hand, today, as the market has not fully matured, the proposed provision would be inoperative. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u177	The drafting of the bill follows very closely the text on spare parts that François-Michel Lambert explained to us was at the origin. This has proved its worth, and the clarifications you wish to provide do not seem useful, even if the intention is commendable. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u178	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 447.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u179	Let us not use one term for another: the term "circular economy" has, I would remind you, been defined in section 70 of the August 2015 Energy Transition for Green Growth Act, and its meaning is much broader than what we see in this part of the bill. I therefore propose to use precise terms rather than an expression to which we have given a legal definition that would not fully apply here. Otherwise, a piece made of recycled material, i.e. made from molten metal, would have the same status as a piece from the dismantling of a car, which is not the intent of this text. If we leave the term "circular economy" in this place, we risk opening a breach that could benefit ill-intentioned people. I therefore propose replacing the words "the circular economy" with "the reuse, reuse or recycling of waste".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u181	The notion of "circular economy" still has a broader meaning than the three terms you want to replace it. However, it seems to me that a certain degree of flexibility should be preserved here: for example, your drafting would exclude parts from repackaging, which is a matter for the circular economy. The current wording seems to me to be better suited to our objectives. So I suggest you keep it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u183	If the fact that a detached piece contains recycled material was sufficient to be considered as a result of the circular economy, it would be too easy. What you are proposing is to confuse the meaning and purpose of the article. Rather, let us make sure that the concept of circular economy is used in a particularly rigorous manner. I understand your intention, which seems interesting to me, but this change would make the definition of spare parts from the circular economy too imprecise. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u184	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u185	In view of the information provided by the rapporteur, I should like to withdraw the amendment, but I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the importance of the implementing decrees provided for in the article: they will precisely reflect our intention in this matter and prevent the very broad definition given to the circular economy in the 2015 law from giving rise to drifts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u186	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u187	The pieces from the circular economy are by nature parts that have already been used. While they can perfectly replace new parts, it is necessary to specify the conditions of their warranty and, more broadly, of the electrical or electronic equipment in which they will be installed, in order to ensure the sustainable operation of the repaired equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u189	Since the companies that supply them already have an obligation to guarantee these documents, the amendment is satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u190	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u191	You are absolutely right, honourable Member, to be concerned about the guarantee of these coins. As it is already mandatory, your amendment is satisfied. Would you like more details?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u192	Please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u193	Spare parts from the circular economy are covered by the contractual liability of the professional repairer. The latter is subject to an obligation of result, in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code. Thus, in the event of a new breakdown similar to, or linked to, the one which gave rise to the first repair, it will automatically be presumed that it results from the incorrect performance of the repair contract, and will therefore remain the responsibility of the professional. That is why I am voting against your amendment. However, your proposal is in keeping with the spirit of the text: it is essential to ensure that the spare parts used for repair are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u194	Amendments Nos 617 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and 1048 by Mr André Chassaigne are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u195	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor in support of Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u196	It's the same as number 20, but for medical equipment. If you give me the same assurances as for the previous one, I'll withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u197	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u198	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u199	I confirm that he is also satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u200	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u201	I propose that the Government authorize or even support the creation of a label for recycled medical equipment, and that it establish by decree the criteria for obtaining it. I know that we have already dealt with the subject in committee, but it is important. I am thinking in particular of structures such as ENVIE Autonomy, quoted on the website of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition about circular economy. ENVIE Autonomy offers recycled materials to housing establishments for dependent elderly people, or to people who need them. The article posted on the Department's website mentions difficulties and questions regarding the quality of these materials and their compliance with the standards imposed for the protection of individuals. The creation of a label would make it possible to set criteria and to identify the structures which could redistribute these materials, the cost of which could eventually be borne by social society. This would help to solve various problems and would respond to a strong expectation of structures that are major players in the circular economy in our territories. That would, in short, be consistent with the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u203	The creation of such a label is indeed a demand of the actors. They insisted strongly on this when we received them at the hearing, adding that there were few of them to carry out such actions and that France needed to give a boost in this area. I therefore understand your proposal. However, this project is not yet sufficiently mature. In addition, some of these materials will soon be part of an extended producer-responsibility chain, with the collection of waste from infectious risk care activities – DASRI. This will encourage dialogue between stakeholders and strengthen the dynamics of the sector, which are desirable prerequisites for the creation of a regulatory label, which may eventually become mandatory. I ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u205	I know, honourable Member, how much you care about this issue, since we started to talk about it even before the bill was drafted. You know that a number of measures have already been taken in this direction, including in the Finance Bill for 2020. I propose that you continue to work on this as part of the drafting of the implementing decree, in order to agree together on the relevant criteria and to move forward, very concretely, in this direction. As you pointed out, the actors are doing a remarkable job in this area. Let's work together on the development of criteria. We have time, and we have the necessary legislative arrangements. What matters, anyway, is action. I know you're very involved in this and you'll make sure we don't let go.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u206	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u207	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I withdraw the amendment again, but be sure that I will remain vigilant on the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u208	Amendment No 1049 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u209	This amendment proposes to increase fines for breaches of Article L. 224-109 of the Consumer Code. However, the penalties provided for in Article 4c of this text shall apply for each finding of the product in default. For each product, the administrative fine will be EUR 3000 if the offender is a natural person, EUR 15,000 if he is a legal person. Thus, if 100 products are in breach, the fine may be up to EUR 1.5 million. The amendment is therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u210	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u211	And even very satisfied! I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u212	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1464.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u213	This amendment, which has not been discussed in committee, provides that the penalties I have just mentioned – 3000 euros for natural persons or 15,000 euros for legal persons – will also apply to medical equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u215	I am very much in favour of sanctions being sufficiently dissuasive. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u216	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1558.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u217	It proposes to experiment with the so-called circular VAT, i.e. a reduced rate of VAT for the repair of household and electronic appliances. The purpose of circular VAT is to create a positive green tax. Non-virtuous products and activities actually have hidden costs, free of charge to producers: they contribute to the destruction of climate, resources and nature, while virtuous activities and products initially suffer from a competitive disadvantage when placed on the market. They should therefore not be subject to the same VAT rate. While VAT is subject to European legislation, it does not prevent the testing of a fixed-term reduced rate over an extremely precise sector of activity – in this case, the repair of household and electronic appliances. All the technical elements exist to conduct this experiment, thanks in particular to the MODEXT study carried out by the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – ADEME.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u219	I understand, honourable Member, your temptation to act through taxation. However, this is not the choice we make in this text. We preferred a more structural dimension – I am of course thinking of Article 2 on the repair index, which we voted for yesterday. We will then see measures to change consumer behaviour by favouring repair rather than replacement with a new product. The coherence of all the measures contained in this text makes it possible to make the bet to develop the reparation chain without resorting to tax measures to which we are not in favour. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u221	We have already had an opportunity to discuss it in committee. I understand your concern to find very concrete ways to encourage reparation or re-use, but your amendment raises several objections. First of all, we are trying not to deal with taxation in legislation that is not directly related to the finance bill. Beyond this, we have also studied this issue extensively, to find out what would be the most effective incentives to influence citizens' behaviour in a virtuous manner. After studying the impact of the decline in VAT in different sectors, such as catering, we have come to the conclusion – counter-intuitive, certainly – that these decreases do not necessarily favour the best changes in behaviour, because they are not always passed on to the final consumer – this has been the case with the decline in VAT on catering. That is why we have chosen to work on the modulation of eco-contributions, a more technical option – I know that you know this device, Mrs Batho – but which allows, depending on the environmental characteristics of the product sold, to vary the eco-contribution up to 20% of the final price. It is therefore an important price signal, likely to have a real effect on the consumer: obviously, the consumer will buy, rather than a bottle of shampoo that is more expensive because it is less environmentally friendly, another one that is cheaper because it is more environmentally friendly. Moreover, VAT rates are very precisely regulated by a European directive: their object and their base are strictly defined there. For all these reasons, we believe that it is preferable to stick to this particularly ambitious scheme of modulation of eco-contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u222	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u223	We understand that all arrangements based on a reduction in the VAT rate are reprimanded in your camp. However, you go too quickly on the considerable advantage that the economic field could derive from this provision, of which Mrs Batho has especially developed the green and citizen dimension. It should not be forgotten, in fact, that the social and solidarity economy, on which our exchange has so far stalemated, occupies a major niche in this field, since it allows products to be put back on the market, the repair of which will make it possible to prolong their use. The social and solidarity economy, as you know, is fragile: a provision of this nature would therefore be particularly well received by all those who are engaged in this economic field, of which everyone recognizes the interest in both production and consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u224	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u225	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I note that the majority is more quick to remove the ISF than to improve purchasing power by lowering the VAT rate. I invite you to reread this amendment, which I fully support, and which comes from the 2019 Foundation, which has been working on this subject for many years. It demonstrated, in particular with home appliances professionals, that the application of circular VAT would have a very positive effect. In your reply, Madam Secretary of State, you referred to shampoo bottles: if we are in favour of a bonus-malus policy for packaging products, on the other hand, I did not see that you were considering extending it, for example, to pans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u226	[[Smile]] Are you talking about the Balkans?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u227	Recycled aluminium stoves and pans are among the first objects on which it is shown that circular VAT has very positive effects, not only in terms of the environment but also in terms of social and economic terms, as Hubert Wulfranc pointed out. This amendment, far from being violent, proposes an experiment: it will therefore be accepted by Europe, since it has accepted experiments in other countries. Your arguments, which I respect, therefore do not prohibit us from experimenting with circular VAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u228	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u229	The amendment concerns not shampoo bottles, but a specific activity, namely the repair of household appliances and electronics. Its purpose is to demonstrate the concept, namely to verify the positive effects of a circular VAT at reduced rates, by applying it experimentally to a very specific sector of activity. This circular VAT is therefore in no way comparable with the reduced rate VAT on catering, the application of which concerned the whole of an important sector of the French economy, at a cost of 2.6 billion euros per year, in order to allow the creation of 40,000 jobs, whereas only 6000 to 9000 jobs were actually created. The measure that I propose to you does not involve any risk of a boon effect. Positive taxation is an important incentive. Do we not live again what we experienced during the debate on the mobility policy bill, when we tabled amendments on the airfare tax, which the Government initially refused before changing its mind a few weeks later? I will not be surprised if the citizens' convention takes up this proposal for a reduced VAT on environmentally friendly products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u230	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u231	The Socialist and Related Group supports this measure, which is in line with its amendment, on which the debate in committee has been lively, aimed at introducing a reduced rate VAT on fully recycled products – products that fall within the scope of the circular economy. Mrs Batho's amendment is prudent and has educational value. It prepares the ground for ours, which is more systemic and enters into a more industrial logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u232	We shall now proceed to the consideration of two amendments to the additional article after Article 4. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1277.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u233	It takes up a proposal from the association HOP – Stops the programmed obsolescence – and aims to include false information on the availability of spare parts and the index of repairability among misleading commercial practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u235	Substantial penalties already exist, which apply to each finding of the product in default. There is therefore no need to include this clarification in the consumer code. That is why I am asking you to withdraw the amendment, failing which I will express an unfavorable opinion on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u237	You wish to supplement article L. 121-2 of the Consumer Code, which provides for the circumstances of a misleading commercial practice and not the information that a product must contain. I believe that making the repair index visible at the time of the purchase act will already be a step forward in informing the consumer. With regard to spare parts, as specified in Article 4, the arrangements for informing the consumer of the availability of spare parts will be laid down by decree. Opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u238	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 904.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u239	The law of 2015 has made it possible to take a first step in the fight against the planned obsolescence, of which there is a lot of discussion here, and so much the better! It is now a matter of clarifying the scope of the concept of programmed obsolescence. Indeed, we have seen that in this matter, the devil nests in the details. The more precise we are, the better we will be able to make programmed obsolescence impossible. This is the purpose of this amendment, which states that this technique may "include the voluntary introduction of a defect, fragility, programmed or premature shutdown, technical limitation, impossibility of repairing or non-compatibility". These clarifications are based on a very interesting report by the European Consumer Centre in 2016, which states that all the techniques mentioned in the amendment may be conducive to the planned obsolescence: it is therefore now necessary to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u241	The practices you are talking about are already sanctioned in Article 4 quater C of the text: it is therefore not necessary to supplement Article L. 441-2 of the Consumer Code as provided for in the amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u243	Mr President, you are absolutely right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u244	Thank you. So you're going to give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u245	[[Smile]] On the contrary, it is because you are absolutely right that I cannot give a favourable opinion. And I'll explain why! You are right to point out that, since the planned obsolescence is a crime, you must be able to prove it: the more you have the means to do so, the easier it is to prove the offence. However, apart from the fact that your provision is already de facto included in the consumer code, which is too detailed, it is paradoxically likely to limit its scope. It would be easy to argue that another practice, which would not be included in the list, does not fall within the scope of planned obsolescence. The question is complicated: if I understand that we want to clarify the concept of planned obsolescence, then the desire to go into detail must not have a more vicious than virtuous effect. It is because you rightly supported, I repeat, during the examination of LTECV – the law on the energy transition for green growth – that the planned obsolescence is a crime, that we have worked on other measures to combat it very concretely, beyond the definition that can be given. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u246	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u247	Let us not wait until the case law confirms the various types of planned obsolescence provided for in the amendment to include them in a new piece of legislation. Let's do it now! We'll save time. The more precise we are, the more we defend the consumer and the better we serve it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that on Articles 4a A, 4a BA, 4 quater D and 12G, as well as on the additional articles related to them, the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has already been asked to give its opinion on the text, has obtained a delegation on the substance. She appointed Ms Graziella Melchior as rapporteur. The Commission has deleted Article 4a A. I have before me a number of amendments aimed at restoring it and which may be subject to joint discussion: Nos 31, 18, 478, 619, 699, 1381, 1694, 2205, 2243, 774, 19, 90, 1279 corrected, 1598 corrected, 2537, 664, 757, 1084, 1828 and 1278. Amendments Nos 18, 478, 619, 699, 1381, 1694, 2205 and 2243 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 19 and 90 and Amendments Nos 664, 757, 1084 and 1828. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u249	In order to encourage producers to place more sustainable products on the market and to protect consumers from practices aimed at reducing product life, this amendment, of which Mr Cinieri is the first signatory, aims to extend the legal guarantee of compliance, which is now two years, to ten years. Thus, consumers who find that a product is unfit for the intended use, including several years after purchase, will be able to benefit from this guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u250	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor in support of Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u251	The legal period of conformity of products is now set at two years, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 217-12 of the Consumer Code: the amendment aims to increase it to five years, which would enhance consumer confidence in the goods they acquire. Such a guarantee would ensure the operation and repairability of the product acquired for at least five years. This extension of the guarantee to five years would contribute to enhancing the quality and sustainability of goods and, in the medium term, contribute to reducing the single use of acquired goods. It is regrettable that consumers have no alternative but to buy a new product following a breakdown. Some argue that such a measure is not possible, as it will lead to an increase in prices. But what about today? If the product fails beyond two years of warranty, its repair is the responsibility of the consumer, unless he has agreed to an extension of the additional guarantee of three years, the cost of which varies between 80 euros and 120 euros and which subjects the repair to many conditions. You will have understood this: despite the slight increase in the guarantee to five years, the price of the product would ultimately be lower for consumers. I will cite the example of certain car brands, which for seven years guarantee vehicles that are sold at a lower price than their competitors. Or that of this designer of electric light bulbs, which guarantees twenty-five years of its products, whose lifetime is estimated to be one hundred years. He can't put them on the market: I think he's a little bothering. We still have a long way to go. I believe that the amendment, which helps to strengthen consumer confidence and safeguard their purchasing power, is fully part of the fight against waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u252	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support Amendment No. 478.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u253	It aims to extend the legal guarantee of compliance to five years, which is currently two years. This would encourage producers to market more sustainable products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u254	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 619.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u255	Similar to the one that Valérie Beauvais has defended very well, it aims to extend the period of the legal guarantee to five years, instead of the two years currently foreseen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u256	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 699.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u257	It was tabled on the initiative of our colleague Véronique Louwagie. Even if it is not the panacea, playing over the guarantee period is one of the tools that will allow us to regulate the environmental, social and ethical scourge of programmed obsolescence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u258	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 1381.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u259	The planned obsolescence is indeed unbearable. Manufacturers know when the product will die, and when, in their business plan, they will be able to bring in cash again. The kids are very aware of this situation: mine pointed out to me that every time I closed the dishwasher and heard the small "click" of the door, I accelerated his scheduled death. It's not ethical, it's socially unfair, because some families can't afford to change devices, and it's dramatic from an environmental point of view. Extending the duration of the legal guarantee, during which consumers are assured of their device being replaced, would put pressure on those who programme obsolescence. It is therefore to give us the means to fight firmly against this planned obsolescence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u260	Amendment No 1694 by Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva is being defended. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 2205.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u261	Similar to the previous ones, it is the result of exchanges with the WWF France and Halte associations with the planned obsolescence. Our colleagues have already described the problem well: the measure provided for in the amendment is part of a strategy to combat the planned obsolescence, in order to encourage manufacturers to extend the life of the products, and thus to limit the stock of goods disposed of and the abusive purchase of new goods.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u262	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 2243.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u263	[[Smile]] The day before yesterday, Mr. Wulfranc told us about his wife's lipstick stories. For my part, I would like to share an experience that we have all known, that of the apparatus – a coffee machine, in this case – that breaks down: if we are a little lucky, it is at the end of nineteen or twenty months, just before the end of the guarantee. The repairer then repairs your machine for free, which has often left for two years. Sometimes you don't have a chance – that's what our colleague Sébastien Jumel said: the machine breaks down just after the warranty deadline has expired, and you have to buy a device. On this issue, manufacturers must change their paradigm: rather than predicting the planned obsolescence, they must sell to us machines that last, perhaps by offering next to the maintenance services. I personally, you understand, experienced a disappointment with a coffee machine, which I had voluntarily purchased of quality. I was lucky twice: the machine broke down just before the end of the warranty, and I was able to get it fixed. The third time, it broke down just after... It's all the more terrible that I chose this machine precisely because I thought it would last me a lifetime. Las: Like all consumer products, it lasted only two years. That is why I believe that the guarantee should be extended to five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u264	Give us the mark of your machine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u265	[[Smile]] That will not be helpful, ladies and gentlemen! I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 774.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u266	Through this amendment, we propose to extend the duration of the legal guarantee of compliance, in order to take more account of the phenomenon of planned obsolescence. In positive law, the legal guarantee of conformity runs for a period of two years: this is the period of time that a consumer has, from the time of delivery of the good, to act. He can then choose between repairing or replacing the property. Against the background of our amendment, it is the planned obsolescence that is in sight: this technique, which involves the manufacturer voluntarily reducing the lifetime of objects, is a real scandal. Consumers are the first victims of this detestable practice, which is too widespread. The index of repairability, which you propose to create, is not enough to combat the planned obsolescence: among other things, you must play on the guarantees that the manufacturer owes to the consumer. The principle of the current system of compliance guarantee is interesting, so we would like to extend it from two to four years. Mechanically, this should result in longer product lifespan. Whether it is in the name of consumer or environmental protection, we must fight against this abusive practice, which has already done far too much damage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u267	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u268	This is a fallback amendment, which proposes extending the guarantee to three years if extension to five years is not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u269	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u270	Beyond the question of duration, the debate on the extension of the guarantee aims to promote the production of solid and durable goods and, indeed, to protect the consumer – many colleagues have said so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u271	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1279 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u272	It also aims to extend the legal period of compliance from two to five years or even ten years for certain categories of products, such as large appliances. The extension of the guarantee has been mentioned for at least six years: it was already included in the second road map for the ecological transition, published in September 2013. It is really time to act on this issue, especially since if the measure seems to be very targeted, the extension of the guarantee actually initiates a radical change in the consumption and production model. I would like to make it clear to colleagues who would be dubious and would think that prices would rise as a result of the extension of the guarantee, that studies have been carried out. In particular, a 2016 German study shows that prices of goods did not increase between 1998 and 2004, despite a first extension of the guarantee from six months to two years. Moreover, the UFC-Que Choisir estimates in a study published in the same year that the increase in the guarantee will result in a decrease in the margins of the distributors on the warranty extensions – these are still estimated at about 50%: this is huge. It is very important to increase the guarantee period.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u273	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u274	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor to support Amendment No. 1598 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u275	Programmed obsolescence is an approach by which a manufacturer of household, computer or electronic products will voluntarily limit the life of its product in order to promote the renewal market. In addition to the obvious harm to consumers, such an approach is detrimental to the environment because of the very large amounts of waste generated by end-of-life appliances and products. The amendment therefore aims to extend the legal guarantee of compliance, which is now two years, to five years. Consumers who find that a product is unfit for the intended use will thus be able to benefit for a longer period of time from the guarantee. Manufacturers of household appliances will thus be obliged to adapt the lifespan of their products and to limit the planned obsolescence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u276	I call Mrs Graziella Melchior, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to support Amendment No. 2537.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u277	In the spirit of what senators wanted for the text, it is intended to make it mandatory for a statement on the cashier's ticket or invoice to state that the product is covered by a legal guarantee of compliance. The aim is to improve consumer information. Indeed, the legal guarantee of conformity remains too unknown to consumers and is regularly confused with the paid commercial guarantees offered by the distributor or manufacturer. A study carried out by UFC-Que Choisir indicates that only 57% of sellers inform their customers of the legal duration of two years, while the extended fee guarantee is addressed in 68% of cases. [[Smile]] The legal guarantee applies theoretically to all products, including perishable foodstuffs. In order not to impose unnecessary constraints on businesses, I propose that a decree should specify the categories of goods subject to this obligation to inform the consumer. These are, for example, household appliances – such as Mr. Erwan Balanant's coffee maker – and DIY and gardening tools – I will not mention Mrs. Wulfranc's lipsticks! Failure to comply with this obligation to inform the consumer may be punishable by a fine of 3000 euros for a natural person and 15,000 euros for a legal person. These penalties will also apply in the case of non-inscription of collateral information in the general terms and conditions of sale.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u278	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 664.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u279	It also concerns the legal period of guarantee. It aims to dispel the doubts consumers may have about the duration of the legal guarantee of conformity of the products they purchase. Such information would enable consumers to be certain of their right to refund or repair their goods, and would prevent them from acquiring new products instead of devices that can be repaired or replaced free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u280	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 757.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u281	Presented by our colleague Dino Cinieri, it aims to dispel the doubts that consumers may have about the duration of the legal guarantee of conformity of the products they purchase. Such information would enable consumers to be certain of their right to refund or repair their goods, and would prevent them from acquiring new products instead of devices that can be repaired or replaced free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u282	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1084.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u283	Presented by our colleague Josiane Corneloup, he is in the right line of everything that has been said earlier by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u284	Identical amendments Nos 1828 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and 1278 by Mr Loïc Prud'homme are defended. What is the committee's opinion on all the amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u285	If I am aware of the issues related to the planned obsolescence, which you have detailed, I believe that the indicators of sustainability and repairability, measures advocated by the rapporteur, Véronique Riotton, will allow progress on this subject. On Amendment No 31, identical amendments Nos 18, 478, 619, 699, 1381, 1694, 2205 and 2243, 774, identical amendments Nos 19 and 90, as well as Amendments Nos 1279 and 1598 corrected, all aimed at increasing the duration of the legal guarantee of conformity, the opinion was unfavourable. While I understand the objective pursued by these amendments, I am against it for several reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u286	Firstly, these amendments raise a question of compliance with European Union law. All, with the exception of Amendment No 1598 corrected, aim to extend not only the legal guarantee of conformity but also the duration during which the burden of proof of the origin of the defect lies with the seller. However, European law prohibits us from extending this period beyond two years – in this regard I refer to Article 11 of the Directive of 20 May 2019 on certain aspects relating to contracts for the sale of goods, which will soon be transposed into national law. Secondly, I do not believe that, at this stage, the legal guarantee of conformity for all products should be extended globally to ten, five, four or three years – and why these periods in particular? – because we did not measure the economic cost of these measures or the impact they could have on French distributors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u287	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u288	Thirdly, we must ensure that we do not introduce too large a difference between the time frame for the legal guarantee and the time limit for the burden of proof. This would be counterproductive to the clarity of the information given to the consumer. Nevertheless, the subject of the legal guarantee remains an essential issue, which raises difficulties to which we must respond. As rapporteur on this part of the text, I have sought new solutions, in particular to promote the repair of goods – I will come back to this in our discussion at a later stage. Amendments No 664 and identical, as well as Amendment No 1278, are intended to strengthen consumer information on the legal guarantee of conformity. This is a central issue, as I had the opportunity to stress when presenting my amendment No 2537, in which I propose their withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u289	Well, let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u290	The objective is the same; We simply want to ensure the relevance of the new obligations that we are setting. Information is not required for all products: we will not indicate a guarantee of compliance on a bouquet of flowers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u291	"Because flowers are perishable"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u292	...or a can of tuna. A decree may usefully specify the categories of products which will be the subject of this specific information. In the absence of the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 664 and 1278 and of Amendments Nos 664 and 664, I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to all of these amendments which are subject to joint discussion, with the exception of my Amendment No 2537.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u294	The rapporteur seems to me to have detailed all the reasons for our positions – reasons why I too express an opinion which is unfavourable to all of these amendments, with the exception of Amendment No 2537, which I shall return to. It is not for the pleasure to issue an unfavorable opinion...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u295	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u296	... especially since the fight against programmed obsolescence is at the heart of the bill. Indeed, if the legal guarantee of conformity is to be extended, care must be taken to do so in parallel with the period of presumption of non-compliance. This period shall be harmonised at European level and shall be set at a maximum of two years. What matters is that time when the burden of proof is borne by the seller. In France, the duration is two years. At the end of this period, the burden of proof passes on to the consumer. Extending the legal warranty period while ultimately reducing the burden of proof on the consumer's side would have a totally different effect than the one sought. France has already extended the compliance period and the legal warranty period to the maximum, and both are in full consistency. Changing one but not the other would have perverse effects, the consequences of which might be less favourable than those we seek. Mr Balanant, you have wanted – I quote – machines that last. That is precisely the purpose of the bill we are discussing! This is why we are working on indicators of repairability and durability and on a meter of use. It is for this reason, too, that we extend the availability of spare parts and that we are putting in place a bonus-malus system on eco-contribution. Finally, it is also with this aim in mind that we have worked on the implementation of funding for re-employment and re-use. The increase in the legal compliance period therefore does not necessarily lead to ecodesign – especially since it is based on the seller, not on the manufacturer, who is therefore not encouraged to design its products in an environmentally responsible manner. I hope I've been clear; I would like to give you this clarification so that you can understand why I am expressing an opinion which is unfavourable to all of these amendments. We have worked a great deal on this in the preparation of the bill since, at first glance, the extension of the legal warranty period seems to be favourable to the planet, to purchasing power and to industrialists. But as you can see, it's a good false idea. I come to Amendment No 2537 by the rapporteur. Initially, it did not seem useful to me to mention explicitly the legal period of compliance on invoices and cash tickets, but, as you say, Mrs Melchior, it might be necessary, if not very useful, to recall this information for certain products. You are right: let us list it as part of the drafting of the decree. Therefore, it is in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u297	Many of you have asked me to speak, and I thank you for being brief enough, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u298	I'm always brief, Mr. President. We must take a position from the consumer's point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u299	That's what we did.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u300	Today, he is somewhat wronged. A short time ago, the legal guarantee of compliance was only six months. It has been extended to two years following steps taken with Europe, followed by harmonisation. I believe that you, Madam Secretary of State, are right to defend our opinion at the Council of Europe and to make our request come to fruition. I may have gone too far with a five-year proposal, but I have also drafted a withdrawal amendment with a three-year deadline. Its adoption would be a positive signal for consumers who have no choice: beyond the legal guarantee of conformity, it is an assurance offered to them to extend the guarantee. And when the device breaks down during this extended warranty, the consumer has to prove that he has used it in full compliance, which is very binding. This bill is well suited to carry this positive signal. Prove the durability of a product also serves its producer, those who designed it. Sustainability is at the heart of these issues. If a product is truly reliable, its producer is not afraid of having to guarantee it as long as possible. I have cited the example of a very durable light bulb: the manufacturer can guarantee it twenty-five years because he knows that it will be able to last a hundred years, even by being lit twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week and three hundred and sixty-five days a year. It seems to me important to think about it, and I appeal to my colleagues in the House to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u301	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u303	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u304	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to briefly explain the vote of the La République group on the legal guarantee of compliance. We will not vote in favour of extending this guarantee, for the reasons already mentioned: European Union law, transposition... Thank you for letting me finish my remarks: I referred to the transposition of the directive on the sale of goods. We have no idea, either, of the impact on companies of extending this period. I would also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that over the past few days we have adopted the repair index, the consumer's information on the availability of spare parts, and the reduction of the deadline for making repairs available to the repairer, which is a central objective of this bill. Thanks to the work of our rapporteur and colleagues, the law now provides for the availability of spare parts for at least five years. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Article 4a BA provides that the legal guarantee of conformity will now be renewed in case of replacement and extended in case of repair. That is why we do not support these amendments aimed at extending the legal period of compliance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u305	Long live the lobbies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u306	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u307	On this subject, we must ensure that industrialists producing for individuals change their paradigm. Madam Secretary of State, you tell us that you want to bring this matter to the European level and we trust you to bring it to an end. I've been talking about machines that last. For my part, I believe that things must change and that manufacturers should sell to us machines that are made to last ten or twenty years, while providing us with maintenance services or supplies. I come back to my coffee maker, even if the example makes me smile. It was a grinding machine that I acquired before I was a member of Parliament, when I had little money. I wanted to buy it and I paid 580 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u308	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u309	[[Smiles and brouhaha on many benches]] Yes, it's expensive! It is a coffee maker in which you can put coffee in organic grains, and it is a sustainable machine: when you buy it, you do everything right, but after two years it breaks down! I will not communicate his mark, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u310	It was too expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u311	Yes, you're right, it was too expensive, but that's the price of all these machines!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u312	[[Smile]] You should have bought a Nespresso, like everyone else!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u313	[[Brouhaha and smiles in the Chamber]] What else?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u314	Colleagues, let's stay calm! Go on, Mr. Balanant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u315	Mr. Aubert's right, sometimes I think I should have bought a Nespresso machine, like everyone else. I just quoted a brand... that's smart! I even quoted the worst one about coffee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u316	They're naive to MODEM!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u317	I dream that French law and European law offer sellers of such machines the possibility of also offering a maintenance service so that, in reality, it is not a coffee maker that I buy, but the possibility of enjoying it for twenty or even thirty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u318	[[Smile. – The brouhaha continues]] Maybe that's why it doesn't work: it's not a coffee maker you buy to make coffee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u319	Let us return to our calm, colleagues. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u320	Madam Secretary of State, you spoke of a false good idea. However, we have all drawn up these amendments with the association Halte with programmed obsolescence, which is very active in this field, and whose expertise on these subjects can be recognised. Unfortunately, this section confirms what I referred to in the general discussion: this bill is far from following the right model. The spokesperson for the La République en marche group quotes the index of repairability, that of sustainability, the provisions relating to the information of the consumer... All right! But this means that our society continues to accept poor quality production. It is interesting to give the consumer the information that will allow him to buy a more or less durable machine. But what we want for our part is that the majority of the objects produced in France are no longer of poor quality! We want them to be part of a repair economy, which emits less waste. A mere index to consumers will not suffice: it is the duration of the guarantee that must be extended. Finally, you refer to European law, and argue that liability for the guarantee is a burden on the seller rather than the manufacturer. I have just tabled an amendment on this subject, which we will discuss at a later stage. I hope that you will accept it, especially since it is compatible with European law. France should rise to the situation by turning its back on this economy launched in a forward leak, which produces more and more objects and waste. We absolutely need this warranty extension to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u321	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u322	Do you know this Boris Vian song? "In the past, we used to be talking about love [...], now it's more the same [...], to seduce the dear angel, we slide into his ear: "Ah Gudule, come and kiss me, and I will give you..."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u323	..."A fridge, a nice scooter"! ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u324	... "Atomixer and Dunlopillo"... This song is called The Complaint of Progress. For my part, however, the planned obsolescence is in any way contrary to progress! Of course, Boris Vian's terminology is dated, but it was already the consumer society he was aiming for. As long as you refuse to touch the money... The capacity for innovation, research and development to produce sustainable materials exists. But if companies do not use it, it is because their business plan takes into account the obsolescence of the product and the need to renew its purchase.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u325	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u326	By suggesting the inclusion of social and environmental responsibility in the very identity of companies, and by proposing constraints accompanied by financial sanctions so that they are obliged to guarantee a guarantee to the consumer, we are giving ourselves the political means to move forward. In this area, we are not with the Bisounours! We have to be binding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u327	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u328	With regard to the display of the legal guarantee period, Madam rapporteur, you are in fact in agreement with our amendments, but as usual, through a pass-by, you are asking us to withdraw them and vote for yours. Be a sport and, for once, accept our amendments! We fully agree on this. Make an effort, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u329	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u330	Don't make us think we'd be defenders of the planned obsolescence. I know that this is not your intention – I am not doing this trial – because you know that the bill as a whole is organized around the fight against planned obsolescence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u331	Then prove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u332	Honestly, the extension of the legal warranty period is not the solution, for several reasons I have outlined. Moreover, in order to combat the planned obsolescence, ecodesign must be encouraged. However, as Mrs Panot pointed out, ecodesign is not the responsibility of the seller, but of the manufacturer, whereas the legal warranty period is based on the seller, not the manufacturer. So you have to work uphill too. You are right, we must continue to discuss the extension of the legal warranty period. This is a fight that must be fought at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u333	It's been six years, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u334	I told you that the fight against planned obsolescence is at the heart of this bill. This is one of the reasons why we are building up evidence of repairability and sustainability. Similarly, we are changing the functioning of the REP sectors, which apply the polluter-pays principle. From now on, these sectors will also be responsible, upstream, for eco-design of products; they will have quantified, binding targets for repair and re-use of products. All this will irrigate the entire social and solidarity economy sector. Beyond the production of more durable and repairable products, this will also create local jobs. Mr Balanant, our objective is that you will soon have a small repairer near you who will find a solution for your coffee maker, whose manufacturer you did not want to denounce – I am very in favour of the "name and shame", so I let you give us the brand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u335	I know her!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u336	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In any case, believe me, the fight against programmed obsolescence is at the heart of this text. We have all worked on it in committee, and honourable senators have also addressed this issue. I repeat, the extension of the legal warranty period is not the solution, even if it seems to be at first glance – you say yourself, from the beginning, that the devil is in the details.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u337	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u338	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 893 on the additional Rule after Rule 4a A.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u339	Also with regard to the legal guarantee, it is necessary to empower the online sales platforms. Indeed, the consumer must be protected by the guarantee provided by the supplier; However, on online sales platforms, products often come from far away, sometimes even from countries outside the European Union, and suppliers then escape sanctions when they fail to meet their obligations. In order to make the legal guarantee fully effective, it is therefore proposed to empower the platforms, to which it would be necessary to prevent the sale through them of goods without a legal guarantee. By empowering platforms, we will better protect consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u340	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u341	This amendment aims to make online sales platforms responsible for the legal guarantee of compliance. This does not seem desirable to me, because responsibility must be placed on the seller. The current law also provides for this responsibility for online sellers, as can be seen from article L. 217-4 of the Consumer Code, which applies to both physical and online commerce. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u343	As I said earlier, the legal guarantee of the goods sold today is based on the seller. Buying them on an online platform doesn't change much...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u344	Even if the seller is located outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u345	The platform operator is not necessarily the seller. Let me give you some legal information. The provisions on the legal guarantee of conformity have recently been reviewed at European level in the so-called "digital products and services" Directive 2019/70, to which I referred many times during our committee discussions, and in the so-called "sales of goods" Directive 2019/71. These two directives adopted in May 2019 will be the subject of parliamentary work in the first half of 2020: that is when we can continue to work on this issue. Let's not overtranspose even before we begin the work of transposing European directives from May 2019! I therefore propose that you discuss all these issues within the appropriate framework of transposing the European directives by mid-2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u346	This is never the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u347	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u348	Home in Dieppe, when I need computer equipment, I'm going to Alpha Son's in Janval. The guy sells good products and applies the legal warranty – he even repairs the computer beyond the warranty period. When I want appliances, I go to a small merchant on Rue Saint-Jacques who has the same responsibility, the same ethics, because he knows that I risk crossing him by buying my bread. [["Oh! » on various benches]] Amazon, which should be renamed "Ama-zone de non-droit", practices generalised tax fraud – every year, 2 billion euros of VAT are not collected by the tax – does not pay to the intercommunities the tax on commercial surfaces, TASCOM,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u349	...or the property tax of the companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u350	... lamine our small shops nearby...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u351	... treats his employees badly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u352	... and treats its employees badly, indeed. The company is not exemplary in social, environmental, human or societal terms. The stakes are real at a time when the state wants to be at the bedside of city centres, medium-sized cities and take into account local shops. At every strike, we cry about crocodile tears saying that traders will suffer, but they suffer every day because of "Ama-zone of non-right" and those who make money the same way – in today's chained Duck, we are told how this big group buys the cheapest products possible to offer discount prices as low as possible and ultimately smoke the consumer and escape tax. Madam Secretary of State, I have no doubt about your good faith, but it is a matter of lack of political will. I am for the law that protects, the law that regulates, the law that prevents bad behavior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u353	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u354	I believe in the state that cares, the state that protects. I do not believe in laissez-faire, laissez-passer, the invisible hand of the market that would protect the small consumer or the small trader. If the market protected the weakest, it would have been a long time ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u355	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u356	On the contrary, the market serves the biggest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u357	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1282 and 1810. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1282.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u358	In line with Mr Jumel's remarks on the State which punishes and protects, we propose, by this amendment, to consider the lack of information on the legal guarantee of conformity as a misleading commercial practice. Earlier, in response to a rather similar amendment, the draftswoman said that sanctions already existed. However, these sanctions are not effective, since an investigation by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – revealed anomalies in 62.5% of the establishments visited in 2016 with regard to the information provided on guarantees. It therefore seems to us extremely important to give consumers the means to protect themselves against the planned obsolescence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u359	Amendment No 1810 by Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u360	The absence of information on the legal guarantee of conformity is already punishable by law. It may be subject to administrative sanctions, on the basis of Article L. 313-1 of the Consumer Code, for failure to comply with the consumer information obligations set out in Article L. 111-1 of the same Code. These practices are punishable by a fine of 3000 euros for a natural person and 15,000 euros for legal persons. DGCCRF is already investigating these issues and has issued several sanctions in order to punish the unfortunately numerous cases where information on the legal guarantee of compliance is insufficient. The absence of information on the legal guarantee of conformity may also be subject to criminal penalties for fraudulent omissions on the basis of article L. 121-2 of the Consumer Code. Furthermore, the amendment we have adopted to Article 4aa strengthens consumer information obligations on the legal guarantee of conformity and provides for new penalties for non-compliance. For all these reasons, I ask for the two amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise I will give them an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u361	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u362	I agree with the rapporteur, who has just given detailed explanations. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u363	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1387 and 1281, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Max Mathiasin to support Amendment No. 1387.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u364	The purpose of this amendment is to remind that the professional seller is solely responsible for the guarantee of conformity vis-à-vis his customer. He cannot return the latter to the manufacturer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u365	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1281.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u366	I explained in the summary statement why this amendment was compatible with European law, in particular with Article 18 of the European Directive on sales of goods. Responsibility for the guarantee of conformity must be based not on the seller, but on the manufacturer. Today, conflicts are resolved by a balance of power that is often favourable to manufacturers and thus unfavourable to sellers. The latter must be protected by having the right to require the manufacturer to take over the legal guarantee financially. It seems to me important to include this principle in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u367	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u368	Amendment No 1387 seeks to place legal guarantee liability on the seller and to ensure that this guarantee applies to the consumer free of charge. This amendment is fully satisfied by the existing law, more specifically by articles L. 217-4 et seq. of the Consumer Code. I therefore request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, I'll give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u369	What about my amendment, which provides for the opposite?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u370	Although you have stated, Mrs Panot, that European law allows the legal guarantee liability to be based on the manufacturer, this is not entirely true. The seller continues to be responsible: the seller is responsible for the legal guarantee of conformity, as reaffirmed in the "sales of goods" directive, which will soon be transposed. However, the seller may then file a claim against the manufacturer in accordance with Article L. 217-14 of the Consumer Code. I therefore also give an opinion against Amendment No 1281.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u372	The rapporteur has fully detailed the reasons behind my unfavorable opinion on the two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u373	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1184.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u374	Since the objective is to act against planned obsolescence and for re-use, we want the duration of the guarantee on second-hand goods to be increased from six to twelve months. This would encourage the sale of used goods and re-use rather than the purchase of new items.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u375	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u376	The change to one year of the period during which the burden of proof falls on sellers for second-hand goods will have to take place at the time of transposition of the Directive. That is why I give a favourable opinion on what is being analysed as a "dry" transposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u377	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u378	[[Exclaims on the MODEM benches]] I ask that this amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u379	[[Smile]] If so, you will never know the brand of Mr. Balanant's coffee maker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u380	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I believe that this is the type of provision that needs to be discussed in the context of the transposition of the European directives adopted in May 2019. In the absence of a withdrawal, however, I will be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u381	Oh, that's subtle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u382	Never heard that kind of opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u383	We have original opinions today! Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u384	For our part, we are in favour of this amendment: to increase the duration of the guarantee from six to twelve months is perfectly acceptable to us because it is in the interests of the consumer that we have been defending this text since the beginning of its examination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u385	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u386	I encourage parliamentarians to vote in favour, especially since the minister's response suggests that Europe will take this decision. It's a good thing that we take a step ahead of ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u387	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 91, 665, 761, 1831 and 2114. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u388	Inspired by the recommendation of a consumer association, this amendment tends to make the legal compliance period scalable according to the estimated lifetime of the products placed on the market. The aim is to focus on repairing the equipment rather than replacing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u389	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 665.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u390	Mr Descoeur fully defended this amendment. The aim is to encourage the consumer to prefer the repair of purchased equipment to its replacement. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u391	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 761.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u392	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u393	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1831.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u394	I agree with my colleagues that the legal compliance period for products placed on the market should be at least two years and, above all, it should vary according to the estimated lifetime of these products. The aim is to encourage repair rather than replacement of appliances purchased by consumers, so as to reduce over-consumption and thus waste generation and pollution. In addition, manufacturers would be obliged to manufacture products of longer duration of use, to the detriment of the famous planned obsolescence. Moreover, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition itself specifies that extending the lifespan of products is one of the ways to reduce their environmental impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u395	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 2114.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u396	It tends to make the legal compliance period scalable according to the estimated lifetime of the products placed on the market. The aim is to encourage the repair of these devices rather than their replacement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u397	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u398	We will have to consider amendments to encourage the repair of these products rather than their replacement. These amendments, which tend to make the legal compliance period proportional to the life of the products, are quite difficult to implement. As the recent debates on the sustainability index have shown, it is at the moment very difficult to assess the lifetime of the products, especially since it varies according to the brands – I refer you to the famous coffee maker! Such a measure would therefore be inapplicable. That is why my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u399	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u400	The same argument and even the same unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u401	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u402	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u403	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u404	The legal guarantee of conformity protects the consumer from possible product failures. As long as this guarantee runs, the seller is presumed to be liable in case of default of the property, and the consumer does not need to prove the seller's liability. In concrete terms, defects that appear within two years of the issue of the property are presumed to exist at the time of issue. The renewal of the legal guarantee of conformity in the event of replacement or repair of a good, which contributes to the extension of the life of the products, is not a new issue. Already in 2017, a report, drawn up in accordance with article 70 of the law of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth, recommended that the guarantee be renewed in the same way, i.e. to start over again in case of replacement of the property. The Committee on Sustainable Development has also endorsed this principle. However, why have this renewal been limited to the first replacement of the property? The Liberties and Territories Group is aware of the need to restrict the use of natural resources in the composition of goods, and wishes to give priority to their repair rather than their full replacement. We propose to require the seller to inform buyers, in the event of a breakdown, of their right to choose between repair and new replacement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u405	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1585 and 1005 which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1585.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u406	Consumers certainly have the choice between repairing a defective product and replacing it at nine, but in practice there is a very clear incentive to replace it at nine – it's almost open bar. This goes against our objectives. Although European legislation offers consumers the choice, we might consider that the seller, if he agrees, should be encouraged to propose reparation whenever possible, specifying that a repaired property is covered by a six-month warranty extension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u407	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 1005.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u408	This amendment, of which Matthieu Orphelin is the first signatory, is intended to require the seller, in the event of a product breakdown, to inform the buyer of his right to choose between repair and new replacement. European and French rights give this freedom of choice to consumers, but consumers do not know. However, since the seller does not have an obligation to inform them, he is not encouraged to incorporate the remedy option into his commercial approach, in particular where the replacement is more economically favourable to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u409	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u410	I would like to reassure you, Mrs Riotton: under European law, the seller is obliged to inform the consumer of the arrangements for exercising the legal guarantee of a product, and to propose that he choose between a repair and a replacement. It must therefore inform the consumer of the measures to extend and renew the guarantee, as we have voted for it, with a view to promoting reparation. I therefore call for Amendment No 1585 to be withdrawn, which is already satisfactory. On the other hand, while Amendment No 1005 seemed interesting in the first analysis, I found that it was satisfied with the provisions of Article R. 111-1 of the Consumer Code, which require the seller to inform the consumer of the existence of the legal guarantee of conformity and the manner in which it is exercised. Moreover, these concerns are regulatory in nature. I therefore also call for Amendment No 1005 to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u411	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u412	While the intentions behind these amendments are perfectly commendable, they are not very effective. They would place an obligation on sellers that would be very difficult to control. I am quite dubitative, especially since they are partly satisfied with Amendment No 2325 by Mrs Graziella Melchior, which we will examine in a few moments, which aims to better inform consumers of their rights and the environmental consequences of their purchases. I am asking for these amendments to be withdrawn, and I do not see how we can implement them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u413	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u414	A question I don't know: is the seller obliged to give the buyer an average time to repair?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u415	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u416	I understand that, in terms of form, Amendment No 1585 does not provide the most effective solution. On the substance, however, it does not seem satisfactory to me, in a text designed to promote reparation, to offer the consumer a choice between new replacement and repair, without encouraging him to opt for it. I withdraw my amendment, but even if I find that I will have to take another path, I will not let the matter go.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u417	Mr Colombani, do you maintain Amendment No 1005?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u418	I cannot allow myself to withdraw this amendment drawn up by Mr Matthieu Orphelin, especially since I do not think the arguments of Mrs Melchior and the Secretary of State agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u419	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2325 and 1280, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor to support Amendment No. 2325.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u420	In order to promote product repair and strengthen consumer rights, it specifies the provisions adopted in committee in order to avoid the perverse effects which may favour replacement rather than reparation, which would be contrary to the will of the legislator. We referred to this problem in the Committee on Sustainable Development. The amendment therefore recommends that the consumer should be given a reset of the legal guarantee of conformity when replacing the good, in the event that he has initially sought redress. If the consumer seeks a remedy but is not effective, he may request a replacement, which will be accompanied by a renewal of the legal guarantee of conformity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u421	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1280.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u422	It was developed with the Halte association for programmed obsolescence – HOP. Mrs Melchior, your amendment seems to me to be very limited: since the consumer would choose the repair but it would not be done by the seller, he could ask for the guarantee of the replaced product to be reset. We recommend that this reset is not a possibility, but an obligation in all cases of replacement with a new product under the guarantee, as is the case in Austria. Such a measure would encourage distributors and manufacturers to give priority to repair, so as not to have to bear the warranty costs of the same potentially defective product in series for an additional two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u423	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 1280?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u424	We also worked with the HOP association after its hearing by the Committee on Sustainable Development. We had indeed identified a perverse effect, which could lead a consumer to systematically request the replacement of his property. That is why, with the help of the HOP association, we have drafted an amendment specifying the provisions initially adopted by the committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u425	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u426	I agree with the rapporteur's arguments. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2325 and against Amendment No 1280.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u427	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 1050.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u428	I wouldn't want anyone to believe that I am overbidding, but frankly, I don't understand that we can favour or even allow replacement, while everything in this bill is encouraging us to move towards repairability. This is a form of countersense. If products are to be used more often, repairability needs to be preferred. Hence the proposal to extend the legal guarantee of conformity by six months, in order to push for repair and quality repair. I will add another argument that I have already developed just before the lifting of the previous sitting, namely that this new philosophy of repair and maintenance can, in my opinion, give rise to a desire to constantly improve and improve the goods in use and their components. I believe, Madam Secretary of State, that would be perfectly consistent with the philosophy of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u429	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u430	We have already extended for six months the legal guarantee of compliance in case of repair of the property: this seems to us to be a good balance and we do not intend to go any further. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u431	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u432	Mr President Chassaigne, I fully understand the spirit of your amendment, but I believe that I have had the opportunity in recent hours to state in detail all the reasons why we are rather opposed to such a measure. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u433	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 1006.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u434	This is an amendment by my colleague, Matthieu Orphelin, which aims to promote the repair of goods which are no longer covered by the legal guarantee of two years, by guaranteeing for six months the repaired or replaced part.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u435	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u436	If I understand the intention of this amendment, I am against it, because it would entail a new burden for the repair sector, which we would like to favour on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u437	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u438	Same argument, same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u439	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u440	I would point out that this amendment is the result of a proposal by the HOP association.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u441	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No. 377.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u442	Reparation is an essential act. With this amendment, we want to offer the consumer security through the creation of a legal guarantee on repaired goods that have exceeded the statutory limitation period of the statutory guarantee of conformity. It is not a matter of making an extension of the commercial guarantee of origin compulsory, but of establishing a general guarantee of operation for repaired products which are no longer subject to commercial guarantee of origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u443	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u444	If I understand correctly, Mr Zulesi, it is a matter of establishing a legal guarantee of conformity on all the goods repaired after the legal guarantee period has expired; This new guarantee would be the responsibility of the repairers. I'm not in favour of it. It would seem unfair to me that repairers bear the cost of such a guarantee, whereas they are not necessarily responsible for all the breakdowns that may occur on a product. For example, it is not because a professional repairer repairs a washing machine screen that it should bear the cost of a future drum failure. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u445	It's the same for the salesman, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u446	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u447	We have worked a lot together on this issue, Mr Zulesi, and I know how much she cares about you. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this; I believe that what you are proposing should rather be dealt with in the context of the transposition of European directives, in particular that "on certain aspects concerning contracts for the sale of goods", which was adopted last May and which we must transpose into French law before the end of the first half of 2020. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u448	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u449	I would like to go back to the previous amendment. I would like to have a clarification, Madam Secretary of State. It seems to me that in committee, Matthieu Orphelin had withdrawn an amendment on the same subject with a view to reworking with your services before the public sitting. When we look at the amendment that has just been tabled, we see a notable development in the sense that you are advocating in relation to our debates in committee. However, this amendment was rejected. I come to wonder if we really want to defend the consumer and put an end to the planned obsolescence. What about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u450	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u451	This question is indeed part of the points on which we said in committee that we would continue to work together. One thing I note is that we have managed to make progress in many areas since the examination of the text in committee. Many subjects have – let me know – ‘land'. This, on the other hand, is one of the few on which we have not made sufficient progress. Of course, we have worked, there have been developments, and I believe that on both sides, but we need a little more time. What is "good" – even though we can regret that we have not made progress today – is that we have another window, with the transposition before the summer of 2020 of the European directive of May 2019 that I have already mentioned. This will allow us to continue to work on these issues, which are particularly thorny. The debate remains open. The question is important, and you are right to point it out, Member, and the work on the subject is not finished.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u452	I have before me five amendments, Nos 223, 299, 319, 462 and 755, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 223, 299, 319 and 462 are identical. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 223.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u453	This is a common-sense amendment to which Mrs Nadia Ramassamy is the first signatory. It aims to develop the learning of the circular economy in primary school and in secondary and higher education in order to raise awareness and train new generations in the professions of the circular economy and to further professionalize the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u454	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u455	It is intended to complement paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 4a in order to emphasize the importance of learning circular economy at primary school and in higher education with a view to training new generations in occupations that meet current challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u456	Identical Amendments Nos 319 by Mr Pierre Vatin and 462 by Mr Stéphane Viry are being defended. Amendment No 755, second rectification of Mr Stéphane Buchou, is also being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u457	This is where we begin a discussion on education. Often, in the context of a bill, in order to encourage behavioural change, an attempt is made to target children through school curricula. Of course, our children can lead us to change our behaviour, and that is very interesting. However, school curricula are defined by regulation; This is dealt with by the Ministry of National Education and Youth, following a supervised consultative procedure. I had the opportunity to meet with the Director-General of School Education, in the course of my hearings, with whom I share the idea that the right age for raising awareness of the circular economy is that of the college and that it should be kept to that. In any case, that is what we have agreed to. I will have the opportunity to come back to this issue several times. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u458	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u459	These issues of education are indeed fundamental. It is rightly said that everything is learned in school, during childhood, starting with environmental awareness. However, I am not sure that it is through such amendments that the cause of the circular economy can be advanced and that our public policies will be supported. First, article 9 of the Trust School Act, which was adopted last July, amended the Education Code by establishing an explicit link between education and the impact of human activities on natural resources. Primary and secondary school students will therefore be made aware of these issues. As for the preparation of a report on training related to the circular economy, I have already indicated that the Ministry of National Education and Youth has launched, after several months of work with high school students, an action plan around eight axes, which will be monitored and evaluated and which includes the question of training in the circular economy. This is a subject identified by the students themselves, a key topic in their eyes, on which they have already begun to work. Second, in national education, environmental awareness is already at work. Our goal is not to pile up new layers of programmes, it is to focus on action. But we have already begun to act. The Minister of National Education and Youth and I were involved in raising awareness of the circular economy: we collected waste, examined with students how they could be transformed or recycled. We have also spent time in other schools, colleges and lycées in France that have begun work on the issue of retraining. All these themes are therefore already at the heart of education policies. They must be even more so, and that is what the law will allow for a school of trust and the plan of action drawn up in liaison with the students. We must continue to do so, but by means of very concrete actions. We must also be aware that education is often seen as a miracle solution. This is my feeling, but for having exchanged a lot with the teachers, I know that as soon as there is a problem in society, we say that we will solve it through education, that we will appeal to the teachers and the teachers. They are responsible for everything, from the fight against discrimination to the fight for equality between women and men, biodiversity, the circular economy, reparation and the development of science. They barely have time to follow the program they are given additional missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u460	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u461	Again, I am not saying that education is not an important vector. But who kisses too badly. Let us also think of the teachers, and continue to work very concretely with the students, with the students, since the project that the Minister of National Education and we support is a project of society, already in the process of decline in the schools. I am against the amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u462	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u463	I would like to agree with the Secretary of State. National education has not been waiting for us; It has long been committed to sustainable development. Many institutions are labeled E3D, "school or institution in the process of sustainable development". The Secretary of State was able to see this in the Jura, at the Collège de Poligny and at the school of Chapelle-Voland. Awareness-raising is therefore taking place; It is up to national education to work on it. We can trust him, because the teachers are very involved in this process. The College seems to me to be the most appropriate stage: it is at this level that orientation takes place, which is an important and delicate step. It is clear from the bill that many occupations, in addition to those already existing, will emerge in the areas of repair, sorting, recycling, including the recycling of hazardous waste. We need to make our students aware of these trades. In the Jura there are university courses, at the level of baccalaureate +3, concerning the treatment of waste; students come from all over France to follow them; Yet they do not fill up, for they are not known. Developing these trades, training people there, is possible. Everything we can do about guidance will have positive consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u464	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u465	In 2003, I introduced a bill to introduce environmental education in colleges. Teachers were in favour of this; However, the text ended up in a drawer, because I ran into a wall called the National Programme Council. I felt like I didn't speak the same language as my interlocutors. If the rapporteur wishes to integrate the circular economy into the College's programmes, I would just like to wish her good luck and a lot of tenacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u466	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u467	Madam Secretary of State, no doubt you have young children, perhaps very young; I've got four big sons myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u468	Four!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u469	This allowed me to measure the added value that school brings to what children learn. But this generation will unfortunately receive as a legacy a planet that is not at best in its form, but whose future face depends on the circular economy, which we have been talking about for days. You said you had to stop teaching and take action. Precisely, to explain to children, by reading a recipe, that pancake dough consists of flour, milk and eggs, or to organize a pancake workshop in class, it does not come at all at all. My children learned at school to sort out household waste: they became fundamentalists of sorting, ayatollahs of the yellow trash! It is a pedagogy of action, of practice and not of theory, which will enable us to achieve our objectives. There is a real subject to be considered in connection with the Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u470	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1714.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u471	It aims to include in the education code the need to transmit not only knowledge about the environment and its protection, but also actions to limit the impact of man on the environment. Young people under the age of 25 are already particularly aware of environmental issues. However, it is necessary to ensure that the school can provide them with precise scientific knowledge in this field. This amendment was worked out with the young company Too good to go, which is at the origin: it asked us about the need to train new generations on these issues, in order to move beyond the awareness-raising stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u472	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u473	We all share the same objective. Already, article L. 312-19 of the Education Code states that: "Education for the environment and sustainable development starts from primary school". Article 4a provides that this education "also includes awareness-raising on waste reduction, reuse and recycling of products and materials [...]". Your request is therefore satisfied. Therefore, in the absence of a withdrawal of the amendment, the opinion of the committee would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u474	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u475	The same opinion, because I also believe, Madam Member, that your amendment is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u476	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u477	I wanted to speak on the previous amendment, Mr President, but you have limited the number of speeches, which I fully understand. I listened carefully to the Secretary of State: I fully share her analysis of education. I myself was for a very long time the principal of a rural college. I have two daughters teachers; They told me recently that the number of layers added successively to what teachers have to do at school, college, is quite incredible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u478	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u479	We add them to every law, or about every law. It is almost a lack of confidence in the educational act, yet so well accomplished by our teachers. I agree with Mrs Auconia on a very important point. In a previous life, I was also an animator and director of a holiday centre, formed within a CEMEA, a training centre for active education methods. I am convinced that it is indeed through action more than through discourse, activity, concrete achievements that we manage to change the consciousness of young people, who then influence their families and their environment more widely. Let us therefore leave the code of education as it stands. Let's not add any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u480	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u481	In order to contribute to this fundamental debate, since it is about education for the next generations, I want to testify to public action to combat food waste. I was a minister; I am a Member of Parliament; In 2016, I passed a bill to combat food waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u482	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u483	This text did not mention education, which I nevertheless believe is essential. Education is the formation of minds, the acquisition of values, benchmarks, the transmission of certain behaviours from an early age. I obviously agree with André Chassaigne's argument: local educational teams must be trusted. It is not a matter of obligation, but of the ability of these teams to carry out educational projects, environmental education projects, sustainable development and the fight against food waste. Unfortunately, I have also seen for years that if we do not say that we must "do," but only that we can "do," things are not moving forward, at least not fast enough. Our role as legislators is to set goals. At one point, we need all children in France to receive this education from national education. Implementation on the ground can go back to the educational teams – we agree on this – but we need to set clear targets, otherwise we will not move forward fast enough. Furthermore, in this area, as Mrs. Auconia said, children are the best educators of their parents. All of this really deserves a proactive policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u484	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u485	It is normal for us to have this discussion. It demonstrates the validity and necessity of the bill in favour of teaching, from kindergarten to university, of climate issues, of the planetary limits of resources and biodiversity, signed, transparantly, on the initiative of Cédric Villani, Matthieu Orphelin and myself, by 94 MPs. Article 4 bis is a step in this direction. But if we want, rather than adding layers, to take back the foundations of what our education system must transmit to all ages, throughout the courses, in all disciplines, we will have to put on the agenda this bill, tabled on 25 September. I am sure we could adopt it unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u486	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1388, 1389 and 1390, which can be presented together. Mr Max Mathiasin has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u487	As soon as we talk about the protection of the planet, the environment, the preservation of ecosystems, children are excited; and governments, at least ours, have never talked about it so much. I hear André Chassaigne say, "Let's not add any more! Indeed, let's not add to the teachers, who earn very little and already do a lot – that's why we want to increase them, it seems. At the same time, the President of the Republic declared that the Government was a reformer and that it was conducting reforms. A colleague said earlier: the code of education and education are not frozen. My three amendments allow me to relay the proposal of the children of the Cora-Mayeko school in Baie-Mahault, Guadeloupe, the winning text of the twenty-third edition of the Children's Parliament held last June. They took seriously the elements that were presented to them; They have chosen themselves to work on raising awareness of the environmental footprint of digital; They have developed a project and made the move in the hope that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u488	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u489	Thank you, honourable Member, for again sharing with us the amendments inspired by the students in your constituency. The three areas of education they offer are already integrated into the curricula. These amendments are therefore satisfied. I'm asking for their withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u490	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u491	These debates on education are extremely complicated, because we are all a little bit wrong, but also and above all all all right. We need to reach a balance in order to continue to move forward. With regard to your amendments, Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur that they are already satisfied. In the absence of a withdrawal, our opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u492	I have before me two amendments, Nos 277 and 565, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 277.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u493	This amendment by Mr Martial Saddier aims to develop the learning of the circular economy in primary, secondary and higher education. I listened to each other's arguments. It is true that teachers, who are at a crossroads today, cannot grasp all the orientations of society. They could, however, accompany them. Above all, learning the circular economy would not necessarily take the form of conventional courses. It would simply be a matter of making young generations aware of the importance of this issue, which is not limited to the environment. The circular economy also promotes local development. Our young citizens are aware of the situation and may need to be reassured, if only by explaining to them the benefits of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u494	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 565.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u495	The aim of this amendment is to make young students aware of the consequences for the ecosystem of the accumulation of waste, by making them aware of the risks of non-eco-responsible behaviour. The new generations certainly appreciate the urgency of carrying out a true ecological transition, but we believe it is essential to integrate this subject into the education provided to them in order to strengthen them in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u496	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u497	Mr Sermier, your amendment not only seeks to integrate the circular economy into education, but also to ask for a report, which would increase the workload, without much interest since the work has not yet been started. Mr. Colombani...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u498	I was wrong about the amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u499	I am particularly pleased that Mr François-Michel Lambert is not in the Chamber and that I will issue a favourable opinion on Amendment No 565! Article 4a provides that education on environment and sustainable development in primary school shall include awareness-raising on waste reduction, reuse and recycling of products and materials and sorting. You propose to add the circular economy to the list. I agreed on this with the Director General of National Education – I was talking to you about our meeting earlier. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u500	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u501	The Education Code contains provisions on awareness-raising on sustainable development issues following, inter alia, the adoption of article 9 of the Law on a School of Trust, which provides for very specific measures to promote sustainable development and the preservation of the environment. Above all, a real action plan has been initiated. The pupils themselves, supported by their teachers, have drawn up a roadmap for pupils, one of which is devoted to the circular economy. And this road map, they make her live! Nothing prevents, of course, enriching this plan of action. Students, particularly dynamic and involved, work there and want to go even further, conveying their concerns to the Ministry of National Education and to the educational bodies. Today, the action is underway and we should reserve our energy to the progress of this project, to support students who are determined to go to the end and put their hands in the cambodia at all stages: development, implementation, evaluation. That is what we need to focus on. That is why I am against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u502	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u503	What is well-conceived is clearly stated. In this regard, it is interesting to include in article 4 bis and in the Education Code the concept of circular economy which covers sorting, re-employment and retraining. Let us not forget, however, that environmental education in national education is in its infancy. Mr Diard himself had just recalled the obstacles that had had to be overcome a few years ago in order to ensure that the concept of environmental education was included in the missions of national education. We're only at the very beginning. Madam Secretary of State, let me say that the teaching of the circular economy is invalid. The major environmental organisations concerned will be able to testify: in the college, this teaching is now reduced to three times nothing. It was commendable to include that concept in the missions of national education, but much more would have to be done. The executive will, of course, have to monitor the implementation of these decisions, but Parliament could seize this issue by creating a parliamentary mission to take stock of the situation. It is important to go further because demand, real, meets a real need.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u504	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u505	Eco-delegates have been appointed to colleges and high schools to carry out actions to promote biodiversity, the circular economy, waste sorting or the fight against climate change. They are only in their infancy, so it would be better to wait for the balance of their commitment before proposing small measures. The subject is serious enough for us to take the time to build a real project, in consultation with the young people with whom we need to talk, because they must be fully committed to the environment, whether in primary, secondary or higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u506	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 1248.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u507	I misrepresented it a moment ago in place of Amendment No 565. He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u508	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u509	He's satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u510	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u511	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u512	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 602 and 2119. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 602.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u513	Thank you for supporting my amendment No 565, Madam rapporteur. Too bad he was rejected. We need to understand in a particular way the toy, which is not an ordinary object. This amendment therefore tends to insert in the first sentence of paragraph 4, after the word "re-use", the following words: "in particular through the use within schools of materials and products derived from re-use and the establishment of teaching tools to support the use of these products. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u514	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 2119.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u515	Before I introduce the amendment to which Mrs Maina Sage is the first signatory, I would like to express my perfect agreement with Mr André Chassaigne. The burden of teachers, both in primary and secondary education, continues to grow. The problem has become societal. Teachers in schools or colleges are supposed to teach and parents, educate. However, the latter are increasingly instructing the sovereign State, through its mission of training and education, to supplement parents, particularly with regard to raising awareness of the future of the planet. Let us go back to the amendment. It aims to promote the use of re-employment materials and products in schools. It would be virtuous for national education to set an example by choosing re-employment games to develop students' imagination and encourage their learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u516	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u517	They're happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u518	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u519	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u520	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u521	I trust you, I withdraw Amendment No 602.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u522	Mrs Auconia, do you maintain Amendment No 2119?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u523	In the absence of Mrs Sage, I cannot afford to withdraw him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u524	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 910.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u525	I will not enter a Lépine competition for good ideas for education, but I would nevertheless like to present this amendment by Mr Guillaume Garot, an expert in this field. The amendment seeks to include in the objectives of environmental education and sustainable development, from primary school onwards, awareness-raising on sustainable food and the fight against food waste. This common sense amendment would make it possible to clarify the device without making it more complex. I would simply add to this debate which brings us together – which also unites us – that the fight against waste is not limited to food. On the contrary, it is more closely linked to education, which can inculcate the principles of responsible behaviour in order to preserve the planet, by learning to do better with less. That is why we must not limit our measures to food alone. Our amendments, far from being futile, deserve support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u526	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u527	Unfavorable opinion for the reasons mentioned above regarding the tasks of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u528	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u529	Same opinion. We have had a strong debate and the arguments raised are valid for this series of amendments. I invite you to withdraw it or I will express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u530	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 894.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u531	Because it is essential to raise awareness of the fight against waste and the circular economy from an early age, this amendment aims to include education on alternatives to the use of plastics from primary school onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u532	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u533	He's satisfied. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u534	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u535	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u536	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u537	I understand that the already high school rate is one of the obstacles to education for sustainable development. However, I remember proposing to devote part of the "Wednesday Plan" to this civic education. Indeed, since the State finances the plan on Wednesday, implemented by the municipalities with the help of various associations and actors on the ground, it may propose to give priority to certain axes. I hope, for my part, that the plan on Wednesday will provide a broad-based citizen education for children and, consequently, for parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u538	Mrs Gaillot, is your amendment retained?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u539	I don't want to remove it instead of Mrs. Sabine Thillaye, who is the author of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u540	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 2277.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u541	I am co-signatory to this amendment tabled by Mr Gabriel Serville, Member of Parliament for Guyana. A former principal of a vocational school, he is familiar with this subject. The aim of this amendment is to clarify that awareness of waste reduction, reuse and recycling in the context of environmental education and sustainable development takes into account the reality of students and the local issues related to these topics. Let us remember that Mr Serville is elected in Amazonia, a territory that has many specific features. I would add an additional point, which may have been mentioned in my absence: Article 4 bis is almost organic in nature, since it is the direct consequence of Article 8 of the 2004 Environmental Charter, which was incorporated into the constitutionality block in 2005, which states: "Environmental education and training must contribute to the exercise of the rights and duties set out in this Charter. "
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u542	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u543	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u544	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u545	Once again, the issue deserves a long debate and Mr Chassaigne has just stressed its fundamental character. But since it is so important, it should be mentioned in the presence of the Minister of National Education and Youth. Indeed, it combines environmental law and the constitutional issues that have just been raised with the education law and policy issues of the Ministry. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u546	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u547	On my own behalf, except on behalf of the La République Group on the move, I find Mr Chassaigne's proposal interesting. If we want to encourage the involvement of young people, we must take into account the local environment. The inclusion of education and training in the Environmental Charter shows how important young people's involvement is. I am in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u548	Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u549	I, in turn, want to make an important point. It has just been said that the proposed measure is enshrined in the Environmental Charter; Yet you give an unfavorable opinion. We must therefore consider that you question the content of the Charter – in principle, if not in substance. This is a fairly serious question, and I hope that we will be consistent on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u550	The rapporteur, Mrs Véronique Riotton, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1586.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u551	In committee, we decided to raise awareness among college students on various topics, such as waste reduction, but also to provide for "an awareness and introduction to techniques of repair, mechanics and maintenance of products". As mentioned earlier, the number of teachers at the college is insufficient to provide this type of education. I therefore propose that this reference be deleted. We need to trust national education and resist the temptation to impose too much on programs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u552	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u553	I am in favour of the amendment. We have had intense discussions on raising awareness and education about the circular economy and sustainable development. I have heard what both have said, but, despite everything, even if the issue is thorny and the debates are not always easy to decide, we must move forward. I propose that you adopt the rapporteur's amendment, which, in my view, represents a satisfactory balance: it allows us to move in the right direction while taking into account the fruit of our reflections and our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u554	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u555	The amendment deletes a sentence that I believe is essential. Removing manual activities in the college as part of a practical education on waste reduction, reuse and recycling of products and materials is in total contradiction with the spirit of the text. A fundamental principle is now a consensus that young people must be made aware of. But it is now important to move from theory to practice, from reflection to reflexes; This is the added value brought by the senators who introduced this introduction into the bill to the techniques of repair, mechanics and maintenance. The bill will tomorrow provide consumers with a clear indication of the repairability of the products they purchase, and the spare parts needed for repairs will need to be provided more quickly. In addition, the Roadmap for the Circular Economy aims to create 300,000 jobs in this area by 2025 or 2030 and encourages vocations in this direction. In this context, it is very surprising to want to remove an essential practical initiation. In the spirit of the bill, however, future generations of consumers should be able to repair and maintain their products. That would be a major step forward. In my opinion, one must do to learn, and manipulating is the best way to assimilate and interest oneself. It would be contradictory to delete the second sentence of paragraph 4 in view of the objectives of the text and the ambitions that we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u556	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u557	With regard to the rapporteur's amendment, as on many subjects, we need to know how to take a little time. I have listened carefully to what has been said about the need to raise the awareness of adolescents and to integrate the issue into school curricula, and I have heard a lot of good ideas, to the point: the teaching world must be able to put all this into music. Madam Secretary of State, you must make a commitment before us to refer the matter to the Minister of National Education and Youth, both with regard to the integration of these concepts into existing programmes of technology or life and earth sciences – which requires some thought – and with regard to the training of teachers in the teaching of certain concepts, a point which we mentioned in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u558	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u559	Indeed, several associations have taken the initiative to distribute pamphlets in schools, and we need to ensure that their content is in line with the vision we are defending here. Personally, I found them almost all admissible, but it must be said that I myself was a professor – and it is known how difficult teachers are to integrate these beautiful and good ideas on paper. It therefore seems important to me to refer the matter to the Ministry of National Education and Youth once it has been adopted, so that it can tell us how and in what form these concepts will be incorporated into the programmes and how the Government intends to achieve its objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u560	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u561	Mr. Descoir is absolutely right...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u562	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u563	... and I find that the interventions of our parliamentary colleagues who have been teachers greatly enrich the debate. I said earlier, when we discussed the quality of the teaching of the circular economy, that it was still in its infancy. It is not the teachers who are of poor quality, on the contrary: they are of very good quality, and they very much want to engage. It is also not the eco-delegates who are not good: they are doing a great job and I think the creation of eco-delegates was a very good idea. However, one does not learn without having a structured subject at his disposal. You saw it yourself, Madam Secretary of State, when you arrived at the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition: you have to work on the subject. I therefore hope that you will speak with national education, because there is still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u564	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u565	Ladies and gentlemen, I have understood and share your concerns: we need to give more room to the issue of the circular economy. I would add that, if we are talking about a circular economy, the challenge is more broadly that of preserving the environment, in particular that of biodiversity, because the massive extinction of the species we are experiencing requires awareness. I have already had conversations and even working meetings with the Minister of National Education and Youth, Mr. Jean-Michel Blanquer, on raising awareness of sustainable development and the environment, to which he is particularly attached. He is so attached to it that he has taken an initiative that includes the eco-delegates you were talking about right now, Mr. Pancher, and which is also based in part on the students, accompanied by the entire teaching body. I hear your request, Mr. Descoeur, and I am committed to continuing to work with the Minister of National Education on the issue of programs and training...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u566	Oh, that's audacity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u567	...but also concrete action, which also responds to your concerns, Ms. Carrière. I will make your voice, but know that we are already talking about these issues very often and that we are working on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u568	I call Mr Max Mathiasin to support Amendment No. 1391.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u569	It is intended to insert, after paragraph 4, the following subparagraph: "Students may elect from among themselves ambassadors to carry out activities to raise awareness of the circular economy and participate in eco-citizens' actions. I am aware that the Secretary of State has already given her answer...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u570	Good anticipation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u571	... but I maintained the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u572	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u573	The law does not have to go into this kind of detail. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u574	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 916.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u575	We hope that biodiversity-related lessons can be taught in architecture schools, because extinction of species does not stop at the borders of cities; and flora concern urban areas in the same way as rural areas. Our society as a whole must evolve. It is therefore necessary for future constructions to provide shelter for all forms of life – including animal life – when they are present. We need to train architects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u576	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u577	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons as I gave earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u578	What a renunciation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u579	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u580	The question of the role of architects is regularly asked. At this stage, however, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment because the question requires that we carry out collective work, in particular through consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u581	Yes, Mr. Garot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u582	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u583	Amendment No 1917 by Mrs Véronique Riotton, rapporteur, is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u584	I have before me two amendments, Nos 524 and 97, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 524 by Mr Bertrand Pancher is being defended. I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u585	[[Smile]] We will eventually get our children to work on Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday! The aim of this amendment is to make them aware of the carbon footprint, in the same spirit as the previous amendments. Even if this poses difficulties, we have important work to do on the subject, as our colleague Frédérique Tuffnell pointed out – especially with the eco-delegates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u586	I call Mr Eric Pauget to support Amendment No. 334, which sets out an additional rule after Rule 4a.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u587	In the same vein as the previous amendments, the aim of this amendment is to include in the education and public health codes the objective of raising students' awareness of the food waste faced by school canteens in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u588	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u589	Again, this amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u590	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u591	As Mr Garot said earlier, important work has already been done to raise awareness of food waste. You are right, it can and still needs to be improved, especially in school canteens. I invite you to withdraw your amendment because it is satisfied, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u592	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No 641 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u593	This amendment, tabled by Stéphane Viry, aims to create training adapted to tomorrow's professions in the field of circular economy, as well as training in rudology opened in Lons-le-Saunier. We must be at the meeting of the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u594	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u595	I have already said that school curricula are defined by regulation. As far as apprenticeship is concerned, training is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and of the regions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u596	The rapporteur, Mrs Véronique Riotton, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1587, which seeks to delete Rule 4b(a)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u597	It is intended to delete an article under which the Government is to submit to Parliament a report on measures to raise awareness of the circular economy in schools. Rather than writing a report, it is preferable to support outreach efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u598	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u599	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u600	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u601	I regret that this amendment deletes an article which the committee introduced on my proposal and on which a majority had been found. The purpose of the article is not to modify or increase school curricula, but to evaluate awareness-raising activities and those that lead them. Why? We could discuss it at length, but I will be brief while recalling certain points. Often, external stakeholders are called upon whose messages are not always rigorous or consistent with what science teaches us. An assessment is therefore necessary, which would also provide an opportunity to identify the needs that evolve over time. Bertrand Pancher said it before, and I agree, we are only in the infancy. Madam Secretary of State, you felt that on this subject we were all a little wrong and a little right. That is precisely why Members from all the groups have adopted in committee the amendment which has become Rule 4b(A) of the text before us today. I regret the removal of this progress, especially since such an assessment would be useful to you in your discussions with the Minister of National Education to support the cause of raising awareness of the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u602	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u603	The report is not intended to add to the programmes, as Mr Fugit said, but to assess the awareness-raising mechanisms. It is a collective of local elected representatives who say so: the curricula are no longer up to date, and they do not always correspond to reality, when they do not introduce confusion. It would be interesting to assess the relevance of the modules devoted to the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u604	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u605	I wish to abound in the direction of my two colleagues. It is always difficult to integrate a cross-cutting topic into the programmes and to link it to one of the disciplines, whereas they are rather divided. I insist that the report be maintained because it seems essential to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u606	The committee has deleted Article 4b. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No 1287 to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u607	The purpose of section 4b was to require the installation of a visible meter on certain products as of January 1, 2022. Large domestic appliances and computer and telecommunications equipment whose use in number of hours of use or cycles can be calculated – washing machines, televisions, smartphones – had to be equipped with such a device. This article was deleted when, in our view, it was an essential means of combating the planned obsolescence of products. That is why we propose by this amendment to restore what we consider to be a step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u608	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u609	You're right, it's an important subject. The debates on the repairability index and the durability index have shown this: the meter of use is certainly likely to develop the market of the occasion. It was precisely because we were aware of the value of the meter, as the Senate introduced it into the bill, that we sought to stabilize the device. However, an obligation to do so would have made it difficult for manufacturers, and it would probably not have been applicable because it was contrary to the principle of free movement of products in the single European market. In order to maintain the possibility of equipping the equipment with a meter of use, which seems to me to be an important lever for the development of the repair, we have made this equipment one of the specific criteria of the repairability index. By devoting the meter to a legally sound device, we send a signal to manufacturers to encourage them to use it. These are the reasons why the committee has deleted Article 4b, but I have fought for the meter to be retained. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u610	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u611	Madam Member, rightly, you have a lot on the meter of usage. It is indeed an essential tool. That is why, following the debate in committee, it was decided to include the meter of use as one of the criteria for establishing the repairability index for all products for which it would be relevant. The first step is to reward, give a bonus to those who innovate and move forward in terms of sustainability before they can generalize the meter of use. We proceed in stages. In any event, we wanted to keep this tool, and to do so, we made it a criterion for the repairability index. I have an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u612	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u613	Madam rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for providing very precise answers, but I admit that I am a little desperate. A few days ago, we adopted a ban on single-use plastic packaging – a very good measure – but... for 2040. You have certainly noted the reactions to this. In this case, it is good to incentivise, award premiums and rewards to manufacturers who equip their equipment with the meter of use, but in one way or another, the break with the economic model will have to be more frank, European rules or not. Meanwhile, climate change and the ecological crisis are increasing, and the goodwill of economic actors cannot be maintained. This method has led to scandals of asbestos, chlordecone, glyphosate, and it will continue until strict rules are laid down to finally put the industrialists at a standstill. I believe that we are here to choose these common rules and decide the future we want to prepare. Unfortunately, we are very far from being able to live up to it, as I have said on several occasions, but I repeat again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u614	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u615	I believe that our discussions have always been open and based on good faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u616	It's not a matter of good faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u617	I have described the current system, and I repeat it here, as voracious capitalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u618	But, at the same time, you're doing CETA!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u619	There are constraints, but we are not just setting long-term goals: we are developing plans to get out of the system and to change methods. In order to achieve the 2040 target, like what we do on renewable energy, we are drawing up a plan, which will be revised every five years, to get out of society at large.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u620	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u621	Don't play words, MP. What have we adopted here together? The ban on disposable plastic. You are ignoring the superfluous plastics that are also addressed in this bill. We are working to eliminate all unnecessary plastic packaging before 2025. Do I have to draw up a list of them? Plastic toys from fast-foods; plastic confetti; expanded polystyrene boxes, etc. – you know all this, you were in commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u622	[[Smile]] What am I gonna find in my happy meal?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u623	We are working towards a profound transformation of production and consumption patterns in our country. This means that the citizen taking a shower will no longer have to use shampoo packaged in plastic packaging that will end up in the trash; it will no longer use a plastic toothpaste tube that it will throw away once empty or a plastic toothbrush that will be put in the trash when it is worn out; For breakfast, he will no longer eat butter stored in plastic boxes; it will no longer use liquid dishes under plastic packaging. Do I have to go on? Industrialists will be subject to the same changes. We are not content with advertising effects, we are working in depth to move from a society at all-disposable to a society at all-reusable. It's point-by-point. This is a major transformation that requires cultural change. It's a very profound change in society. That is what we want to achieve by moving forward step by step, by making evaluations and by setting ourselves objectives. This does not prevent, in the short term, the prohibition of superfluous plastics. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I may have expressed myself wrongly and I may not have been clear enough during the debate, but you know me, I am in good faith engaged in social transformation. Don't play words. Let's stay in good faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u624	I want to answer it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u625	[[Exclaims on the SOC and FI panels]] Ms Panot responded to the reply of the Secretary of State and the rapporteur. We will not hear the answer to the reply two minutes from the adjournment of the meeting and extend the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u626	We must be able to respond to these false claims!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u627	What about CETA, and the elimination of rail freight?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u628	[[Same movements]] Mrs. Panot, let's stay calm. The amendment has been tabled, you have received a reply from the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, and you have responded in turn. I am not going to allow a ping-pong party to continue, nor am I going to open a debate on such an important subject at this time. I shall close the debate by putting the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u629	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-11-O1098.u630	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy. The meeting is adjourned.
