ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill by Mr Guillaume Garot and others for urgent measures to combat medical desertification (No 1542, 1612).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u3	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u4	Like the hero of the film Un Jour n'en fin, which you certainly know, I feel like I live the same day over and over again. In fact, majorities follow each other in this Chamber, and I am once again at this rostrum in front of this House in order to fight against medical desertification. I know in advance, unfortunately, that tomorrow I will resume the same speech, the same fight because no government, no majority has the courage to take responsibility; and the advent of a so-called new world does not change it. Yet the urgency is overwhelming.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u5	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u6	It is imperative to provide concrete and effective responses in the fight against medical desertification. Our fellow citizens are more distressed than ever by their difficulties in accessing care; I see it every day in the territory of which I am elected. For example, this is attested to by the situation in the hospital centre of Nord-Mayenne, in Mayenne, on which, Madam Minister, I again alerted you a few weeks ago with our rapporteur Guillaume Garot. Three weeks ago, 2,500 people were in the streets of Mayenne – a city with 15,000 inhabitants – to support their hospital; Guillaume Garot and I were by their side. Minister, in my region, I have been fighting tirelessly and for a long time against medical desertification, but I see that inequalities are increasing. I meet every day, in Mayenne, patients for whom treatment is now part of the path of obstacles: eighteen months for an appointment with a cardiologist, six months for an appointment with the ophthalmologist, three months for treatment of a caries, not to mention practitioners who refuse new patients. In our constituencies, we are all witnessing human tragedies affecting people who are often fragile or elderly, with modest means, who face the worst difficulties in being cared for. I also see doctors overwhelmed by an inhuman workload, suffering from a real malaise. They face a rampant bureaucratization that prevents them from devoting all their energy to care and sometimes even causes them to doubt their vocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u7	What a horror!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u8	For too long, the inhabitants of the territories affected by medical desertification have felt, often legitimate, that they have been abandoned by the Republic and excluded from the solidarity it is supposed to offer them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u10	This is also one of the reasons for the deep anger and distrust that are expressed today with the movement of the yellow vests. You must be aware of that, Madam Minister! Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the next ten years, medical desertification will worsen as a result of several developments. The phenomenon will affect not only rural areas, medium-sized towns and suburbs, already facing the emergency, but also metropolitan areas, which are currently experiencing their first difficulties. It is therefore a global problem and a national emergency. How could it be otherwise when one in two doctors has, or will have, more than sixty years in the years to come; young doctors have different aspirations; the number of hours worked is in free fall; that the French population is aging and that its level of demand is increasing, just like chronic diseases? Faced with this observation – which I believe we all share – the various majorities that have followed have given priority to incentives, which have nevertheless shown their limits. And I fear, Madam Minister, that your plan "my health 2022" will not allow us to respond to the suffering of our territories. The Libertés et Territoires Group is convinced that it is imperative that we change software and put an end to this endless day, which I was talking about earlier. That is the objective pursued by the bill tabled by our colleague Guillaume Garot. I welcome her initiative, but can only regret that she was emptied of her meaning during her examination in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u11	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u12	However, it contained useful and immediately applicable measures which would have strengthened the medical presence in the deficit territories. I would like to refer in particular to Article 1, which has been deleted in committee, and which we will again have to discuss earlier. Indeed, with this article, it is a question of answering the question that is mobilising us today: do we, yes or no, have to adjust the freedom of installation of doctors through measures that allow for more regulation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u14	Our group is fully aware that doctors, especially new generations, are opposed to regulation. We know that they expect new ways of organizing and exercising, allowing more flexibility and efficiency – I am thinking in particular of multidisciplinary health homes – as well as new forms of remuneration. We must take these expectations into account while implementing ambitious measures to guarantee access to the care of the French, regardless of their choice of residence: in the city or in the countryside. Our group also believes that the progress of medical deserts can only be halted if our health policy is thoroughly rethought. This requires a fundamental overhaul of our system of care, in terms of the regulation of doctors, but also in many other areas, following the recommendations of the committee of inquiry on equal access to care, created at the initiative of the chairman of my group, Philippe Vigier. I am thinking in particular of the exemption from pension contributions for doctors working in combined employment and retirement in areas under stress; the creation of a status as a flying doctor so that "thesed" doctors come to support other colleagues on an ad hoc basis; the creation of a status of assistant physician of territory; changes in the status of hospital practitioners to allow for mixed exercise between the city and the hospital; or the revision of the exercise authorization procedure, EAP, so that doctors with a foreign diploma can move in more quickly, provided that they do so on a liberal basis. These measures, which I will defend on behalf of my group earlier on, would immediately put 10,000 doctors in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u15	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u16	They must be taken without delay and our assembly would honour to agree to them, beyond partisan divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u18	I want to conclude by stressing that, personally, I want us to go further. With this in mind, I will support an amendment to create a territorial agreement mechanism, which was originally provided for in the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u19	[[Smile]] Oh, good Doctor Favennec!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u20	I had defended this idea through two bills in 2012 and 2016. At the time, I had not been supported by the socialist majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u21	No one's perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u22	[[Rires on the SOC benches]] However, in the interests of the general interest, I believe that only our territories and those who live there count. That is why I am delighted to see Guillaume Garot and his group joining my fight and that of the Libertés et territoires group. They can count on my full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u23	We're not grudgers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u24	I propose that freedom of installation remain the rule, but that in order to settle, doctors be required to choose from the very many territories in which patients will need them. They will naturally remain free to settle in areas where doctors are already numerous, but in this case they will not be covered by health insurance. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this proposal is neither of the right nor of the centre nor of the left. It is a citizen and human proposal, a proposal of common sense and future, which does not call for political courage, but for responsibility, humanity and proximity in the service of equality for each of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u25	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u26	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u27	The news we are passing through is a testament to the great expectation of our fellow citizens in terms of the provision of public policies in our territories. The climate of distrust vis-à-vis our institutions must challenge us – and indeed challenges us through the great debate. Access to care is a priority for the French. In the field of health, no political power or system can guarantee an absolute guarantee against illness, loss of physical capacity or alteration of mental faculties. Political power, on the other hand, has a duty to mobilize the responsibility of everyone. More than ever, we must restore confidence to our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, the problem of medical desertification in our territories is not new. We are all concerned about this subject; It was also a strong focus of Emmanuel Macron's presidential programme and, since his election, the Government and the Minister of Solidarity and Health have taken action to address this phenomenon. Our colleagues Stéphanie Rist and Thomas Mesnier, whom I salute, have also been involved in several parliamentary reports and missions. The commission of inquiry on equal access to the care of the French also made proposals. The future bill "my health 2022", prepared by Agnès Buzyn and planned in the coming weeks, will allow us to respond in concrete terms to the medical desertification that causes profound upheavals. You have been working, Madam Minister, for 18 months to promote greater territorial equity in the distribution of care. In this respect, all proposals must be heard. That is what brings us together today in the examination of Guillaume Garot's bill. Even if the answer can only come from a global transformation of the health system, all legislative possibilities for moving things forward must be explored and debated in this House. Indeed, only we sometimes go faster, but together we go further. It is this desire to act collectively that dictates our daily lives and brings us together on these benches, at the service of the French rural territories, cities and urban peripheries. Despite the commitment and qualities of doctors, the shortage affects one in five Frenchmen. We can no longer leave our fellow citizens alone in this situation. It often takes months to get a medical appointment: on average, it is more than eighty days for an appointment with an ophthalmologist, more than fifty days for a cardiologist, while this care line is crucial for the prevention and reduction of cardiovascular risks. That's not acceptable. Since 2012, access to general practitioners has deteriorated considerably. But while it is easy to share the findings of the Socialist and related groups, our majority wants to favour a forward-looking, pragmatic and above all effective legislative approach. Thanks to the future bill from the "My Health 2022" plan, we now have the keys to success in responding to the urgency of medical desertification. We therefore do not agree, Mr rapporteur, with your opinion in favour of selective agreement. In the field, the latter could be limited to a counterproductive advertising effect. We must pay attention to the risks that inequalities in access to care may increase if such coercion is voted. Selective bargaining can only be effective in a context where we have more new practitioners in our territories than retirements. We must preserve the alliance of fair action towards citizens and health professionals. The coherence of supply in our territories must essentially guide our work. And we need to pay attention to the consequences and focus, mainly, on the benefits that citizens can benefit in return. That is why our group will vote in favour of Article 4 on the authorisations of assistant and replacement doctors in densely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u28	How generous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u29	In addition, we will also propose two structural amendments. The first aims to strengthen the representation of territorial health councils – CTS – by integrating parliamentarians into these quality bodies. We hope that all Members, from all sides, will be able to become more integrated into their territories and participate in local health decisions. The second amendment is aimed at mobilizing public administrations at the service of the French in difficulty in densely populated areas, in order to enable them to find a doctor who is referring. In order to achieve this, we hope that the Ombudsman for Primary Health Insurance Funds will be more active in ensuring access to the care of our citizens. To restore confidence to the French in our institutions, our duty as parliamentarians is to assure them a right to health. The latter is a right for all, in all our territories. In conclusion, in response to our colleague Favennec Bécot, who referred to the film One day without end, I'll send him back to another movie: One day on Earth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u30	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u31	In a recent speech, you acknowledged and admitted, minister, that the remedies you started to administer are, if not too slow, at least too late. Unfortunately, I can only agree with this sudden awakening, which, for almost twenty months, with a white paper, with proposals for legislation and with speeches and speeches, has constantly called on you to act. And to act quickly, the dysfunctions of our health system are so glaring! So many of our compatriots are, every day, a little more worried and anxious at the idea of no longer finding doctors to care for them, their children or their elderly parents. In a few weeks, we will review your bill from the "My Health 2022" plan. It would therefore have taken almost two years for the Government to finally address the crucial issue of community health. And again, to say that we will look at your bill is just a figure of style, since a significant part of the text will escape parliamentary debate to be passed by order, in the name of an emergency that is just laughable two years after you take office. However, your majority has not missed any opportunities or proposals to speed up the pace of decisions. Almost all opposition groups have tabled bills. The Republican Group has not failed to submit to you its own proposal, with a proposal for our health, which I doubtless consider to be complete and consistent. Weary! Each time, your majority, as was the case this morning on another text, used procedural tricks to reject these texts, without even agreeing to examine them. No doubt you agree, as the yellow vest crisis has no doubt passed through it, in a spirit of openness without limits, that we should examine today the proposal of our colleague Guillaume Garot, or what is left of it after the majority has emptied it of its substance. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur and thank him for once again forcing the Government and the majority to tell us, as you did the minister, that it is far too early to deal with medical demography, that the Government has taken care of it well before us, and that the plan "my health 2022" will soon resolve everything. Once again, the French of cities and countryside, roundabouts and elsewhere, will appreciate it. But, having nothing of the prophet Jeremiah, I will stop here my recriminations and devote myself to the examination of the text. In the coming weeks and months, I will have the opportunity to say, and even to write, what I am so inspired by intriguing in the management of our health system, of which I do not even say that it goes into the wall, since it is obviously already there! If I share, Mr rapporteur, your concern to find a solution to the many questions left by the medical demography, if I measure the strength of your commitment to this issue – of which you are talking about your mayenese experiments – I cannot, however, join you on the proposed solutions, some of which I think are worse than evil. Of course, I would like to take note of this, but you have been careful with semantics: never do the words "constraint" or "coercion" appear in your text. However, your proposal for selective agreements is very similar to that. I do not think that this is a good signal to send to future doctors, or even an honest message to our fellow citizens. For, finally, to put this constraint, which does not say its name, on the table, while it has been very largely rejected by successive majorities, while the students and professionals themselves do not want it, does it not amount to a small manoeuvre, to a media coup? Mr rapporteur, the demonstrations that have been taking place in our country over the last few weeks are the demonstration that there is no effective reform that receives the support of the people it concerns. Reforming doctors' rules of installation against doctors themselves is, at best, a mischievous one, at worst a serious mistake. Your proposal, was it sweet to hear by a few, even on all the benches of Mayen, is not up to the stakes and, to say the least, is irresponsible in the consequences that it would not fail to bring about. I am well aware of the frightful abyss in which I have been funding since the beginning of my term of office. Imagine: I'm not a doctor, not even a health professional; I'm just the little one elected from a small territory, and I still pride myself on talking about health! But, in the exercise of my local mandates, as in all the meetings I have had for months, I have come to the simple conclusion that health is a priority for many of our citizens and that the usual dogmas that have been applied to health for forty years will no longer be enough to save the system. We all share the same view. On these benches, we're all looking for solutions. Yet, PLFSS after PLFSS, we continue to do as before. To imagine that the installation of liberal professionals could be administered is a matter of the same mortiferous logic. Perhaps it would be better to look at why, in the cohorts of medical students, so few admit to being tempted by general medicine. By selecting the best of the best at entering medical schools, it may have been possible to ensure the future of disciplines with high scientific value added, ensuring the future of hospital research. But how long has the question been asked as to whether these profiles corresponded to family medicine, as it was beautifully called once? Too often, we continue to hear, here or there on the benches – it is true, more and more sparsely – of the faculties of medicine, that general medicine is the path of those who do not succeed. Who, for a long time, has looked at the curriculum of medical studies and the way in which one chooses – or does not choose – one's specialty? At the 2016 national rankings, 3500 places were to be filled in general medicine. However, only 3200 places have been filled and, of these 3200 students, only 1500 have expressly acknowledged that they have made the choice of general medicine. We will never find in general medicine the other 1700, who will disappear in the internal medical services of hospitals. Who said that in 2016, Minister Garot? Who cared? You see, Mr rapporteur, even by creating all the conventional constraints of the world, as long as there are no more candidates for general medicine, the offices of our cities and villages will continue to close, inexorably. What about the practice of internships that limit medical students inside the walls of the public hospital. Who's talking about the 15,000 vacant traineeships and the difficulties in recruiting them, when you don't even know how to pay them? So, how am I surprised that a young, newly graduated general practitioner, who spent nine and a half years studying in the public hospital's giron, doesn't want to stay there when making a professional choice? The hospital became the first competitor of city medicine. And that doesn't seem to shock the big world in the country. It must be said that it offers everything new health professionals expect: the safety and comfort of multidisciplinarity, the possibility of sharing between work and family life, by choosing part-time at least for part of their career, remunerations that support rather good comparison with the liberal sector. What more can I ask for? However, if your proposal were to be adopted, it would be an additional incentive for students to stay in the hospital, where, in the end, the constraints on the practitioner are less severe than in the city. I add, having read in the plan "my health 2022", that the hospital practitioner competition could be abolished, that there will no longer be any reason, nor any obstacle, for medical students to remain in the hospital. But maybe it's a choice? Perhaps this is the purpose of the reform, in full conformity with the historical doctrine of the Ministry of Health, that is, "by and for the public hospital"? In the light of the treatment that has been done to liberal professionals for years, we have the right to ask ourselves the question. Without having asked you all these questions – which I do not claim they can easily be answered – because you have not considered the invisible part of the iceberg, and finally have remained at the foam of things, your text cannot remedy the medical demography, the expectation of our fellow citizens to be able, as close to home and in the shortest time, to be cared for by a healthcare professional. It is here, and only there, that the real challenge of any reform lies. Finally, I am surprised that the Socialist and related group did not measure the risk that its proposal would reinforce the existence of a two-speed medicine. For doctors who would not have preferred to stay in the hospital, your solution still offers the possibility to give up the agreement and, therefore, to offer patients necessarily selective rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u32	It's over!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u33	The medicine of the rich in the city; The medicine of the poor in the hospital: as a vision of the new world, you will admit that we have known more ambitious and more solidarity! You will have understood this, and even if some of your proposals are of interest, the tree of coercion will continue to hide the forest. The Republicans will oppose it with strength and determination, convinced that there are other ways and solutions to build tomorrow's medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u34	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u35	A few days ago, I read in the press – the Express to not name it – an article entitled "The Medical Deserts, a "Bronnier" of the Assembly". In Parliament, the fight against medical deserts is the equivalent of the price of real estate or freemasons for newspapers, i.e. a subject that always makes a recipe. The bills concerning medical deserts are tabled by colleagues sitting on all benches, with regularity of metronome, and almost always rejected. I do not know if this will happen again today, but if the bill is passed, it will be, once again, dispossessed of all its attributes. Indeed, anything that does not come from the majority is rejected or, in order to be delusional, adopted after having been completely emptied of its substance. This procedure has even become the real trademark of your majority, the seal of the Republic on the move! Now, you have to take the problem with your body. Indeed, France is experiencing a strange paradox: it has never had so many doctors – almost 216 000 active practitioners were registered on 1 January 2017 – and yet, medical deserts continue to spread. Nearly one in ten French people lives in a medical desert. 9000 communes – which still represent some 5.3 million inhabitants – are in short supply of general practitioners. Populations living in isolated rural areas are particularly affected by this shortage. The same applies to the peripheral crowns of the main urban centres. However, medical deserts are also found in the centres of medium-sized cities – I know something about it in Béziers! In order to combat this desertification, you propose, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that doctors wishing to settle in a well-equipped area of care should be deprived of a contract. Thus, a doctor could establish himself in sector 2 – with excess fees, therefore – only if one of his colleagues simultaneously ceases his activity. In the event of installation without cessation of simultaneous activity, social security would not reimburse its patients. The aim of this measure is to encourage young doctors to move to areas with a shortage of medical supplies. This idea is not new. Already in 2011, a text co-signed by two socialist deputies aimed at capping the facilities of young practitioners in so-called "overdenses" areas. It was not adopted. At the end of 2017, the Court of Auditors noted that it was difficult to overcome medical deserts, and recommended binding measures "to achieve a rebalancing" of the geographical distribution of doctors, even if they ended their freedom of installation. In order to do so, the Court proposed replacing it with the "selective agreement" already applied to nurses and midwives. Without success. We know the doctors' reaction. As the saying goes, you don't catch flies with vinegar! By introducing only coercive measures, you will not attract doctors, on the contrary: they will move massively towards professions unrelated – or almost – with care. In short, you'll get them out of the health care system. This device is, in my view, ineffective, and even counterproductive. In order to remove medical deserts and respond to understaffed public hospitals as well as to retired doctors who are asked to continue working, we are sometimes praised for the alleged progress of dematerialized, remote and dehumanized health, sometimes the possibility for pharmacists to deliver medicines – but medical prescription is not part of their skills, it seems to me – sometimes, pending the effects of the suppression of the numerus clausus – what did we do earlier! – the use of foreign doctors, everyone knows that they are often in a very precarious situation. This DIY doesn't seem satisfactory to me. I therefore propose – as I have already had the opportunity to do in this Chamber – to explore another path, that of encouraging installation in these areas, by means of tax cuts, for example, or of introducing an act that is more expensive to patients, but better reimbursed. There is no shortage of solutions. We will have time to develop them. It would be necessary to rethink everything, listen to practitioners and have the courage to carry out a profound reform at the service of doctors, so that they can be 100% attentive and at the service of themselves and their patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u36	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u37	I will take a concrete example of medical desertification. L'Orne has 162 general practitioners at the beginning of 2019. At the same time last year, 181 physicians were still practising. The Territory therefore suffers a loss of 19 practitioners. In ten years, forty-eight generalists have ceased their activity. As far as specialists are concerned, we see the same trend. At present, there are seventy-nine of them. In this area, the Orne has a net loss of more than thirty specialists in ten years. The numbers are there, and they're talking. They illustrate the relentless logic of medical desertification, particularly in rural and peri-urban areas. This is just one example among many others. Each Member of Parliament has already received letters and calls on this subject, and has met with local residents who no longer know how to find a doctor who is treating or worried about the closure of community-based care services. The only observation is that the reality of the situation is not being debated. On the other hand, there is a need for a debate on the concrete solutions that need to be formulated in order to respond to this urgency. However, like the members of my group and – I am sure – many other Members, I would like to express my disappointment at what remains of the text at the end of its examination in committee. The Socialist and Related Group has done a substantive work, under the leadership of our rapporteur, Guillaume Garot, in order to formulate simple – and not simplistic – solutions that are effective in responding to the urgency within our territories. These are emergency measures, such as the conditioning of a doctor's agreement in areas overdoped upon the retirement of one of his colleagues. This measure is mentioned by the inhabitants of the territories concerned themselves. Those in my constituency have told me about this, in the framework of the Citizens' Advisory Councils that I have put in place to address the major issues of concern to them. This is one of their priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u39	We've all seen it. We are even critical of the implementation of the decisions we supported in the last Parliament, demonstrating that the incentive is not enough. The phenomenon requires concrete, rapid and effective decisions. This is the case here: we want to shift more resources towards the "health innovation territories" by allocating funds from the regional intervention fund, because, at the local level, solutions exist. Local and regional authorities are acting to respond to the crisis, by establishing mechanisms for general medical consultation within hospital centres and by opening centres or health homes in the territories, with the support – I recognize – of regional health agencies. In addition to worrying figures in the field of general medicine, it should be noted that the nursing population is well maintained in some territories. The tradesmen plucked the gaps on a daily basis. We could rely on him to better meet the needs of care. The first nurses of advanced practice are in training – they are about 300 to date – and the movement needs to grow. We follow the same logic when we want to give more room to pharmacists, who are trained and responsible personnel. The bill that we put on the table, in its original wording, was a piece of legislation of urgency and common sense, formulating pragmatic answers. It aimed – and still aims – to achieve a clear majority of consensus on a situation in which many territories are located.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u41	We will remind you incessantly: access to care for all is not negotiable. This is a right. We must do everything we can to restore equality between the territories and the citizens. It's a matter of justice. Of course, it is difficult to take action on the licensing of doctors, but how can we accept that territories are largely overstated as health professionals and that others are sorely lacking? Of course, the numerus clausus has been lifted, but we cannot wait ten years as the situation deteriorates every month. In Alençon's urban community alone, dozens of professionals retired last year and will leave this year. They won't be replaced. What are we going to answer to people who don't know who to turn to to find a doctor? Our group will therefore do its job and try to make the text meaningful. We hope that the amendments that we are defending will obtain the consent of many Members, because they reflect a reality that we are all confronted with, beyond partisan differences. I would remind you once again that these are emergency measures, adapted to a period of crisis. It is also a question of recognizing the progress that has been made in our territories, as well as the actions of health professionals in the wider sense. We support some of the points raised in the health plan, some of which need to be discussed here in the coming months, such as the creation of medical assistants or the salariate of doctors in the medical deserts. Funding should be focused on supporting collective care coordination organisations. There is no single answer to the problem of medical desertification. However, the proposals in this text will have a real effect and will contribute to the resolution of a situation that is deteriorating and will continue to deteriorate in the coming years if urgent measures are not adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u42	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u43	Mr. Guillaume Garot, thank you for introducing this bill. Our country is characterized by profound social and territorial inequalities in health – no one will deny it. In the current context, on the basis of a widely shared diagnosis, it is good and healthy to discuss the answers to be provided. Public health doctor and Member of Parliament for a territory suffering from a real problem of access to care – such as the one where Mr. Pueyo is elected – I am well aware of these issues. Besides, you mentioned my department in your report. In terms of the density of the liberal medical professions, Eure is the last in France. He is also the least well equipped with general practitioners. However, thanks to the sustained involvement of the departmental council, of which I was Vice-President, we have been able to adopt innovative solutions in favour of the installation, exercise and maintenance of doctors practising as liberals. To do this, we did not focus on the doctor alone. I will take the example of my department, which is fragile in terms of medical demography, to explain the idea. In the Eure, even before the presentation of the plan "my health 2022", we realized that the problem of medical deserts could not be reduced to the number of liberal doctors settling in the territory. We understood that cooperation between physicians, and more generally between health professionals, should be encouraged in order to avoid isolated exercise of medicine. This is the expectation of young health professionals. On this point, I agree with what Mrs Ménard said earlier. It is also a guarantee of quality for our citizens. Thus, a paradigm must be changed: proximity is not a guarantee of security. We need to change our understanding of the health supply and establish real health collectives. Take the example of chronic pathologies. The presence of a single doctor cannot be satisfactory for the care of the patient. We need a medical team. In the case of diabetes, the general practitioner can benefit from the support of the dedicated nurse and the podologist. Moreover, if these partners work together, everything is much simpler for the consultant. So let us not reduce the debate to the number of doctors alone! With regard to selective agreement for doctors, the proposed measure is an eternal return. We've been talking about it for a long time and we'll probably be talking about it for a long time. I myself wondered about its relevance. From the point of view of medical students and doctors, it seems to me that such a measure poses a real risk to the attractiveness of liberal medicine, particularly for its generalist component. Moreover, our choice is one of a logic of trust and dialogue with health professionals, both in the field and in the development of a comprehensive strategy. Thus, in the Eure, we have built, in collaboration with the primary health insurance fund, a one-stop shop for young doctors wishing to settle in our department. This facilitates the approach of the young doctor, allows him to develop relationships and creates a real climate of trust around him, because he meets directly with the various protagonists of the institutions to which he must address himself. Our choice is not that of coercion. If we find – after an evaluation – the ineffectiveness of the many incentive schemes designed to encourage the installation and exercise of liberal doctors in underdenses, the method will have to be reviewed. On the other hand, such a measure could lead to widespread deconcentration, which would ultimately affect patients. As indicated in a Senate report published in July 2017, the German experience seems to show that selective agreements did not result in an increase in the number of doctors in the underfunded areas. In addition, physicians appear to have a tendency to settle close to overdoing areas. For these reasons, I am not personally convinced by this proposal, although it was presented with the strength of evidence. The proposals of the "My Health 2022" plan, most of which will be put to parliamentary debate, seem to me to be far more than just emergency measures. They are up to the challenges and are based on a coherent, structuring and comprehensive strategic vision. As a reminder, the plan for equal access to care in the territories, presented in October 2017, is based on four pillars: strengthening the provision of care in the territories, a digital health revolution, improving the organization of professions and a new method of trusting the actors in the territories. I could talk at length about the "My Health 2022" plan as well as the measures to which we can give a legislative basis. However, after the publication of many reports and studies, after the presentation of the "My Health 2022" plan last September, and after the adoption of some measures under the PLFSS, we will have great pleasure in extending our discussions in just over a month. On these issues, as well as on the more global issues of lack of attractiveness in rural areas – and others – it is important that we debate, given the current context.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u44	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u45	Even though it is not explicitly one of the four main themes addressed in the major national debate, we all know here how difficult access to a doctor is for our fellow citizens every day. We, the deputies of the nation, can testify to the numerous letters and alerts that we receive from local elected officials, but also from citizens who warn us about the upcoming retirement of their family doctor, who will not be replaced. You have recently pointed out, Madam Minister, that health is "a public service that is not at work." The subject of medical desertification comes back very, if not too regularly, since we have not yet found the right solution, the right dosage to guarantee both the freedom of installation of doctors and their proper distribution in the territories. Facility incentives have been found to be too expensive and ineffective, forcing us to find alternative methods. Today we are looking at a text that attempts to address this problem. While our group welcomed the proposals contained in the "My Health 2022" plan, it is undeniable that the measures presented will not be fully implemented until 2025, or even 2030. In the meantime, our position as parliamentarians obliges us to provide answers to the distress of our fellow citizens, faced daily with the difficulty of getting an appointment with a healthcare professional. That is why I thank the Socialist and related group, and in particular the rapporteur Guillaume Garot, for placing this bill on the agenda of our work. For, even if we do not share all your conclusions, we stress the constant effort and self-denial that you have shown on this subject to try to restore, in France, a health of proximity. This bill also echoes the committee of inquiry set up by our group last year on equal access to care and the fight against medical desertification. We find in your text, in part, the observations made and certain proposals made in the final report presented by our colleague Philippe Vigier. First of all, in Article 1, you propose to make the agreement of doctors a regulatory tool for rebalancing the provision of care in inadequately equipped areas. Without calling into question the doctors' freedom of installation, you condition their agreement to the density of care provision in the territory. On the form, we find the method somewhat unfair and discriminating, since these installation constraints will apply to new doctors seeking to settle, without affecting those who have already established a firm and have a stable patientel. I agree with you, Mr rapporteur, that unfortunately you cannot change the rules during the game. I am thinking in particular of all those students who have committed themselves to very long and tedious studies, to whom we will suddenly announce that their freedom of installation is being compromised, at least in certain areas that they may have considered. Moreover, this measure does not guarantee the presence of doctors in rural areas. You are committed to limiting installation in over-donored areas, without intervening on the attractiveness of under-donored areas. The constraint measures applied to the installation in Canada or Germany, mentioned earlier, to which your proposal is similar, have led to failure: although the new doctors have not settled in the cities, they have not made the choice of rural areas either, preferring to establish their office on the outskirts of the cities. To make the subdenses really attractive, you would have had to propose devices to improve the exercise conditions of doctors. What I hope will be proposed in the future health bill, with the development of medical assistants that will allow Liberal doctors to free themselves from certain tasks, particularly administrative ones, and thus allow time to devote themselves to their core work, that is, to care. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to make better use of health facilities, which allow hospital practitioners to practice part-time city medicine. Thus, they allow both to retain the hospital practitioner and to increase the supply of city medicine. This model also strengthens the offer and the medical advice by juxtaposing several disciplines. Finally, it is necessary not only to make the installation in certain territories more attractive for doctors, but also to make city medicine more attractive. We know that nine out of ten doctors choose to practice in hospitals. It is not by stifling the installation of liberal doctors that we will be able to improve this figure and restore the balance between city and hospital. Our group therefore remains very reserved on your proposal for a selective agreement which, I fear, might miss its effect. We will continue to support and guarantee doctors' freedom of settlement, but we call on them to make efforts to better meet the health needs expressed by our fellow citizens. Your text also proposes to draw on the skills of doctors who have graduated outside the European Union, by reducing the compulsory probationary period from three to one year, provided that these doctors practise in an underfunded area. Since this proposal was made by the report of our committee of inquiry, our group is obviously in favour of it. However, when we read the draft Health Bill sent to the Council of State, we found that the Government was proposing to increase this period to two years. We also give a favourable opinion to article 4 of your text, which creates a new status as a "strengthening doctor", distinct from the current framework of replacement and applicable only in medical deserts. Again, this is a proposal from the report of the UDI-Agir Committee of Inquiry. Your text finally proposes to rely on official pharmacists. Through an experimental device, these professionals highly appreciated by the French will be able to dispense certain medicines with compulsory medical prescription. Pharmacists are not prescribers. This wish was never expressed by the profession. However, like doctors, they are continuously present throughout the territory because of much more stringent installation rules, it is true. As a result, the pharmacy is now a local health centre in the territories, thanks to a formidable territorial network. According to a survey conducted by Pharma Système, the pharmacist remains the healthcare professional that the French most often see, in front of their general practitioner. As part of the influenza vaccination campaign, these professionals have already demonstrated that they can help. The experiment has indeed been very successful, with more than 700000 patients vaccinated in pharmacies. So why not go further, especially to treat minor pathologies? Pharmacists have already seen their missions evolve, they stand ready to go further. We therefore support your proposal, as the chosen framework for experimentation seems to us to be very coherent. That is why we will propose an amendment to re-establish Article 5, which has been deleted in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u47	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u48	This bill alone does not seek to resolve all territorial inequalities in access to care, since it ultimately contains few articles. However, the proposed measures have the merit of making a difference. Our group will therefore adopt a benevolent position on this text, even if we do not vote on Article 1, you understand that. Like you, we regret that the text has been emptied of its substance in committee. But if some of your provisions were to be included in the future "My Health 2022" bill, expected in February, this argument could be agreed. We will therefore be very vigilant, Madam Minister, about the work to come, particularly with regard to the content of the orders, to which we hope to be closely associated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u49	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u51	The stakes and consequences of medical desertification have been raised and developed extensively by all my colleagues. The figures we have are obviously worrying: on the one hand, one in two general practitioners will soon be over sixty years old; On the other hand, only 8% of young physicians choose general medicine, while 25% do not practice full-time. This phenomenon is visible everywhere, even in a department such as the Var, which shows a 4% increase in the number of installations, but has significant disparities. For example, when I moved to Cogolin in 2009, thirteen doctors were practising. They are now nine, grouped together, for a population pool of 20,000 inhabitants in the winter. We all agree that there is an urgent need to act. But is it appropriate to act urgently? I doubt it. The presence of a doctor, or his absence, is in a way the thermometer of the attractiveness of a territory; No one could deny it. Often, a territory without a doctor is a territory where the economy, transport and public services are weak or absent. On the substance, it is not because our majority does not support, at this very moment, some of the solutions that you are proposing, that we are less sensitive than you to the disarray, sometimes even the distress that is expressed to us, every day, in our constituencies, and that you invoke to justify the urgent adoption of the measures that you propose. When, in our territories, families warn us because they cannot be admitted as new patients of the only remaining doctor, believe me, we feel no less concerned than you. If we adopt the solutions that you propose today, will the problem of medical desertification, as a whole, be solved definitively and sufficiently? We don't think so. You yourself said in committee last week that this text "does not of course pretend to be the only solution to all the problems of desertification". What is the point, then, of voting urgently for the measures we know in advance that they will not provide any structural response or suitable solutions, even though an ambitious bill on the same subject will soon be submitted to this House? Why not use the remaining weeks to make the most balanced decisions, using a comprehensive and fully concerted approach? Redeeming medical time to doctors is a central issue. This will require structural measures, such as the creation of positions of medical assistants, or the development of the list of acts that can be carried out by the paramedical professions. Nurses have an important role to play in this regard and are ready to do so. Like my colleagues, I am convinced that measures that involve, without admitting it, a form of constraint, or reflect a desire for leadership from the top, are neither appropriate nor sustainable. The image of Epinal, described earlier by Mr. Grelier, of the family doctor who works eighty hours a week, alone, is not what the new generation aspires to. Building a medical home makes sense only if doctors and health care professionals choose to work together, otherwise it can only be an empty shell. At the local level, building a health home without prior consultation is an assured failure. Recreating medical attractiveness will not be possible against interprofessionality, nor without it. To force a liberal professional to anchor his daily life in a place where he does not want to live is still a rather curious thing. Who, here, would be willing to do it without eyebrowing? Especially since, contrary to what is often heard, liberal doctors are far from disinterested in their service to the public. I want proof of the mission of permanent care. We have faith in the solutions that emerge from the ground, negotiated and built by health professionals and elected officials, who know better than anyone the specific realities and needs of each territory. This is currently being applied in the Gulf of St. Tropez for the maintenance of maternity. This philosophy has guided most of the measures adopted in recent years, and will guide those of the new health bill. We believe in the virtues of incentives, provided, of course, that they accompany structural measures. In line with this philosophy, I will now propose an amendment to further encourage the exercise of the permanence of care by liberal doctors in the areas covered. There are avenues to promote, such as establishing links between universities and territories, in order to increase exchanges between trainees, future health professionals, and experienced practitioners; or strengthening the links between hospital and city medicine. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But trying to force professionals to settle where they don't want it, or taking the risk of a drop in the quality of care in the less well-off areas, is to put dressings on a hemorrhage – I know what I'm talking about – and to be content with it, thinking that we have acted, while knowing that the debate will be back on the table in a while.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u52	The general discussion is closed. Mr Guillaume Garot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u53	I would like to give some answers to the arguments that were developed during the general discussion, without weighing myself on any reservation, but remaining to the philosophy of the text. Mrs Mauborgne, the reality is there: there is an urgent need. For you, on the contrary, there would be no rush and we would have to take his time, when now we have to act, using solutions that we have never tried before. That is the challenge we are facing. It is on selective agreement and regulation that there are the most differences, although I note that support for these provisions comes from all the benches, from left to right, sometimes, without forgetting, of course, the centre. Those who argue that selective agreement would discourage general practitioners have misread the bill. Selective agreements will apply to all doctors, general practitioners or specialists. He cannot therefore discourage generalists more than specialists. It's an organizational principle. The purpose of this measure is to remind doctors that the nation has taken charge of their studies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u54	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u55	... and, through health insurance, guarantees their income every month. What is shocking to ask them to ask themselves the question of their installation in areas where needs exist? This is the meaning of selective agreement. Moreover, such regulation already exists for a large number of health professions – this has been recalled. I was criticized for the sovietoid nature of the provision: it would only provide an administrative response, it would result in us returning to a hyper-administered regime... Let's not tell a story! The proposal for a law does its part in the conventional negotiation, which involves discussions with the social partners, in the first place representatives of the health professions and doctors. Another, more pernicious argument has been put against me: regulation can only work in the case of dense medical demography. In other words, if there were a large number of doctors, regulation could be considered. The minister repeated it in the gallery. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, beware of having a double speech! In committee, while a member of the majority here, Mrs Rist, proposed the introduction of selective agreement and therefore regulation in ten years' time, that is to say, when the generation of doctors who have not been subjected to the numerus clausus, in accordance with your cleanliness, well, you voted against this proposal from your ranks! No bad faith, no double speech! Your rejection is ideological and no one of common sense can understand it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u56	Good sense, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u57	I ask you to show realism: hear, too, the anxious call of the citizens who live in the territories. We must provide them with real answers, which cannot consist of new financial incentives. You all know the cost of these incentives. Without calling them into question, I would like to point out that, if we want to make them effective, even though they were created many years ago, they must be based on the lever of regulation, in order to ensure their full effectiveness. Spending even more, for example by raising the price of the consultation – I heard it in committee – or by signing new cheques in order to promote the installation in the sub-donored areas, would only promote a boon effect, without provoking the expected results. It was also said that regulation would be counterproductive and the scarecrow of deconvention was agitated: it will be strictly the opposite! If we introduce regulation through selective agreement, we will send a signal to young doctors, giving them the opportunity to settle in areas where they are expected and under optimal conditions of exercise – this is the subject of Article 2 of the text: I am thinking in particular of telemedicine and teleexpertise, so dear to your heart, Madam Minister, and of a stronger link with the hospital. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The consistency of the text, which we submit to you and which I invite you to support, is a guarantee of its effectiveness. It will respond to the suffering and anguish of citizens living in many territories. We will have worked with legislators who are concerned only with the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u58	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u59	We all share the same observation: we need to restructure community medicine in order to render the service that is due to our fellow citizens. This is also shared by the professionals who, for the first time, set out to discuss with the Government a bill to which they subscribe. This is a change of method. There is a great deal of complaint that the Government would not have listened. Not only has he heard the elected representatives of the territories in difficulty complaining, because they are sensitive to the disarray of their fellow citizens who do not find doctors, but, I repeat, we have also succeeded, which is exceptional, in putting around the table all the health professions, paramedical and medical, liberal medicine and hospital medicine, as well as private clinics, in order to meet this collective challenge: to render to the French population the service we owe it. We've been working for a year. A first step was taken with the Government's plan for access to care, proposed on 17 October 2017, to change the paradigm. It is no longer necessary to rely on financial incentives to install doctors. You're right, these incentives didn't work. That is why, changing methods, we now propose to doctors to give them medical time by promoting a coordination of all health professionals around chronic diseases, which have become the priority problem in the territories: 10 million French people now suffer from chronic diseases. They are often elderly people. We must allow nurses, pharmacists or physiotherapists to intervene with these patients, in order to free doctors. This is what we started to do by offering pharmacists to carry out influenza vaccination: 700000 vaccinations carried out in pharmacies this year, this is 700000 fewer consultations, which has made it possible to give generalists useful medical time to patients. All the work we have done with healthcare professionals is aimed at structuring community-based liberal medicine and strengthening community hospitals. We will soon take a second step: the Council of State has recently received a bill that will be considered in the Assembly in a few weeks' time. It responds to all the problems you have raised, including proximity to access to care, by encouraging doctors to settle in the territories. However, contrary to what you propose, this incentive will not be coercive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u60	One doesn't prevent the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u61	It will not be based on a dry, administrative regulation – "you have the right, you do not have the right", "you will be paid, you will not be paid" – but, in general medicine, on co-ordinated internships and exercises, which we will promote with medical students and interns, in particular by financing them, instead of practicing a regulation aimed at prohibiting doctors from earning money. Do we wish today to prevent doctors from earning money? No, on the contrary, we want to financially favour doctors who will engage in strong cooperation and organizations that will serve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u62	I repeat: one does not prevent the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u63	Similarly, we will financially encourage physicians to undertake new missions. All medical unions – this is exceptional – have agreed to commit themselves to a new responsibility: not only individual responsibility for patients, but also territorial responsibility. This is the first time that liberal doctors have accepted a territorial responsibility: we will fund them for preventive and ongoing care. These are some of the provisions of the bill that will be introduced to you. Mr rapporteur, with regard to selective agreements, which are of great interest to you, I would like to draw the thread of your reasoning to the end. You propose that doctors no longer be able to access Sector 2 in particularly well-equipped areas only when a liberal doctor in the same area ceases to work, so they will have to settle in rural areas. The replacement will therefore not be one-for-one in the areas you describe as overdoing. In France, however, there are no zones overdoped by general practitioners: none of your territories belong to an overdoing zone. Worse: you will keep in the cities the doctors of sector 1 and send in the rural areas the doctors of sector 2, with the excess fees that this agreement implies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u64	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Do you want all doctors in Sector 2 to settle in the most difficult rural areas, those where there are no longer any public services? It will then be for the vulnerable to pay the excesses of fees!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u66	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u67	Mr rapporteur, that is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u68	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u69	No, it is not bad faith, it is the consequence of your measure, which will allow installations in sector 2 only in the sub-dowed areas, namely northern France and rural areas. This is not what we want for these people today: we offer them much better. Mr Aviragnet, you said that the funding does not follow. The plan "my health 2022" has been set up this year to finance the new organisations, 400 million euros, which enter the base of ONDAM: on arrival, in 2022, 1.6 billion will have been dedicated to this plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u70	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u71	Such an effort is far from negligible. Mrs Autain and Mr Dharréville have raised the issue of maternity and I would like to go back to the false information that is spreading about maternity in France: it is in total bad faith to make the closures or the transformations of maternity as purely budgetary choices. I would like to remind you that we are facing two realities. The first is the fall in the birth rate in France: we lose 50,000 births each year. In addition, the territories in which maternity mothers face difficulties are often in loss of population, and there are fewer and fewer young couples. As a result, there are fewer and fewer births in the maternity wards. However, as three obstetricians are required per maternity, some may have only two births per week. Such maternity clinics are no longer attractive: no health care professional wants to engage in a hospital where he will perform only two acts a week. It is all the less reasonable that they lose their skills, especially in the event of an accident, their ability to catch up with a newborn who is not well. Besides, these maternity wards don't have a pediatrician. Women therefore take a risk by giving birth to maternity wards that no longer attract professionals because of their decline in activity. The second reality is the lack, in France, of obstetricians and, more generally, of liberal doctors. We have to deal with a demographic problem. Not only are these hospitals not attractive, but the supply of doctors is insufficient to send patients there. Loss of interest, risk-taking for women, risk-taking for newborns, lists of unfilled guards: the transformation of these maternity wards into proximity perinatal centres is a safety factor for women. That is my only objective today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I replace all these maternity wards with perinatal centres of proximity, in which women are better followed and better accompanied. Psychologists and social workers are at their disposal to better accommodate babies. They receive quality follow-up care: they take time for them. I suggest you, ladies and gentlemen, to visit these centres to see the quality of the service provided. All that matters today is the safety of women. Thank you for paying attention to what you're saying. Mr Favennec Becot, you are proposing an increase in job-retirement cumulation. We discussed this issue in the framework of the PLFSS and I committed to increase it for doctors who wish to continue their activity. I told you that this would be discussed by the members of the National Follow-up Committee on Territorial Access to Care Plan; These discussions are based on the report of the Access to Care delegates, general practitioner Sophie Augros, MP Thomas Mesnier and Senator Elizabeth Doineau. These delegates had suggested that the exemption ceiling should be increased by more than 40000 euros per year. We have discussed this: a draft order to this effect is being drafted and will be implemented. Mr. Grelier, you are critical of the Government's delay in taking the needs into account. I came to the responsibilities in May 2017; However, in October 2017, I presented an ambitious plan for access to care that included many measures. Today, I am going a step further as I am about to defend before you a bill that has been agreed upon. We are sometimes accused of a lack of consultation, but this is a bill unanimously accepted by all professionals and hospital federations! Who can say better? We can always demand more money, but there is no criticism of the fundamentals of this plan. Actually, Mr. Grelier, you're going in the same direction as me. You say that general practitioners need attractiveness and you call for a diversification of the profiles of doctors and the end of the numerus clausus – that's what we expect. You fear that the hospital will compete with city medicine, and that is indeed what I fear if Mr Garot's proposals are applied: if we make the conditions for installation more and more coercive, the doctors will only choose a paid exercise. This is not what we want: for example, we want to facilitate the mixed exercise. This provision will be included in the coming bill, and I hope you will vote on it. I do not oppose liberal medicine in the public hospital: I reconcile both in an ambitious bill that you will have to debate. Mrs Ménard, you are proposing to charge more for medical procedures in the underfunded areas. This is already the case for doctors who come to give medical time in a health home. For example, a specialist doctor such as an ophthalmologist or a cardiologist who would consult one day a week in a health care home would be charged 25% more. Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, you said that the initial provisions of Mr Garot's bill posed a risk to the attractiveness of liberal medicine. This risk is real: there is a real danger when one sees the very large number of positions of paid doctors vacant, whether in school medicine, occupational medicine, laboratories, health centres or hospitals. Today, any coercive regulation would aggravate the transfer of doctors to salaried positions. It is already apparent that doctors are settling in more and more later – after 35 years, on average – because they prefer to do replacements rather than settle. As originally drafted, Mr. Garot's bill would have aggravated the situation. Mr Christophe, you have focused on territorial responsibilities. We encourage the establishment of territorial professional health communities. I hope that you will have the opportunity to vote with the majority of the future bill, which will recognize and fund this territorial responsibility. You also recalled the role of pharmacists: I, too, am convinced that all health professionals must play a role in the follow-up of patients. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Sereine Mauborgne, you said that we all agreed on the observation and on the urgency to act: I agree with you. On the other hand, we have differences as to the solutions to be found. The measures contained in the bill as amended in committee are designed to respond to the challenges put forward by Mr Garot, but they are truly effective and do not pose any risk to liberal medicine or our citizens. We will increase the attractiveness of liberal medicine and foster interprofessional cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u72	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u73	The committee has deleted Article 1. I have before me two amendments, Nos 27 and 17, which seek to restore it and which may be subject to a joint debate. On Amendment No 27, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. On Amendment No 17, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u74	We are at the heart of the reactor, if I may, since Article 1 was the very object of this bill before it was completely distorted by the Committee on Social Affairs. I personally believe that the deletion of this article is regrettable since it involved an interesting step forward. I would have liked our socialist colleagues to implement it when they were in government...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u75	It's never too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u76	We all share the observation that the mechanisms used so far to combat inequalities, in particular incentives, have failed. Given the urgency of the situation, all proposals can be debated, especially since the regulatory solution, successfully applied to other healthcare professionals – as we said in the general discussion – has never been applied, nor even experienced. Amendment No 27 therefore provides that, in areas where there is a large surplus in the provision of care, "the agreement to the health insurance of a liberal doctor may only take place in conjunction with the cessation of the liberal activity of a doctor practising in the same area". Of course, as we have all said, regulation alone will not solve the problem: without a strong policy aimed at responding globally to the problems of attractiveness of the territories, well beyond the problems of health, these coercive devices may have limited effectiveness. It is a whole host of complementary measures that are needed – I will come back to that in the forthcoming amendments – but I am convinced, Madam Minister, that regulation is the first of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u77	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u78	It follows the same philosophy as that of Mr.Favennec Becot. However, it has two important nuances. On the one hand, in my amendment, we are giving first hand to the conventional negotiation in order to achieve this regulatory mechanism – this is very important. On the other hand, we take into account the inequality of social access, including in dense areas where health needs are met, by excluding general practitioners and specialists in sector 1 from the scope of this restriction in order to guarantee everyone's access to health in all the territories of France. These are the differences between my amendment and the one just presented by Yannick Favennec Becot. I am obviously in favour of my amendment and, alas, against Mr Favennec Becot's.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u79	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u80	Unfortunately, the committee rejected my amendment, as did Mr Favennec Becot's.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u82	Unfavorable. I would like to remind all Members that these amendments are extremely risky. In fact, they are counterproductive: that is why I am firmly opposed to them. By voting them, we would reduce the attractiveness of liberal medicine and promote wage-earning exercises that allow doctors to escape coercion. For the doctors who would accept these rules, we would strengthen the facilities in sector 2, i.e. with overpayments, in the sub-donored areas. It is not a good message that we would send to our fellow citizens! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Government has of course chosen a completely different method, based on financial incentives for collectives, cooperation and territorial organizations, to which tasks of territorial responsibility – hence public service tasks – will be entrusted. This incentive will be effective, while the amendments by Mr Garot and Mr Favennec Becot would drive away doctors from the areas we want to promote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u83	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u84	There are times when any political quarrel, posture or speech may seem completely disconnected from the situation our fellow citizens are experiencing and from the distress felt in our territories. I come from the same department as Mr Garot and Mr Favennec Becot: as such, I would like to share my experience as a citizen. For several years, I had to call ten generalists who told me that their list of patients was complete; Finally, a generalist agreed to take me, telling me that working near my home, he was obliged to do so... That's the reality I lived as a citizen! I also do not benefit from gynecological follow-up: in Mayenne, it is complicated. We also find it difficult to have an appointment with an ophthalmo: you usually have to wait ten months. I wanted to give you some very specific and concrete examples. Since I was elected as a Member of Parliament, I have met mayors who are moving sky and earth to install doctors, including generalists, in health homes. Aids are available, as our department is able to help health homes and encourage the installation of doctors. The mayors note that the doctors settle, stay for a few years and then leave to settle in another commune, where they will again receive aids to the installation. My municipality has a well-known addictology centre, which has not found a doctor for months. I want to warn you about this situation. Of course, I trust the Government in trying to find solutions related to professionals, but at some point we will have to act really and find concrete solutions. I don't know if constraint is the best solution. Doctors really need to be encouraged! Why don't they spend a few years at the end of their studies in the territories called medical deserts, simply to meet France, their fellow citizens who need them, and perhaps to love our territories? In Mayenne, we live well! I come from a department where the economy works well and life expectancy is perfect. Everyone boasts the quality of life in Mayenne! Besides, I tell the doctors who could listen to me: come and settle in Mayenne because we live there very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u85	Vote the Garot bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u86	But there is a problem: action must therefore be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u87	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u88	With regard to selective agreements, Madam Minister, you are trying to scare everyone by explaining that all doctors will leave the Liberal exercise and that, if they settle in the areas in difficulty, it will be in Sector 2. No, Madam Minister! If doctors are now in sector 2 in very dense areas, it is because of a price effect: because of a lower density of acts in their day, they increase prices to guarantee an income in line with their expectations at the end of the month. By settling in other areas where there are no problems with many acts – in our territories, the wait is very high and the waiting rooms are crowded – they will not necessarily feel the need to exercise in sector 2. It is therefore imperative to recall this in order to correct your point. Finally, Madam Minister, you are extremely positive in your presentation. But, with regard to selective agreement, I just want to remind you that Mrs Bourguignon, when she was a Member of Parliament for another majority, Mr.President of the National Assembly, Richard Ferrand, who was a Member of Parliament for another majority, Mr. Castaner, currently Minister of the Interior, also a Member of Parliament for the previous majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u89	That's undeniable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u90	[[Mr. Hutin applauds]] ...have all signed the same amendment that we are presenting today to ask for selective agreement! That should still make a number of us think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u91	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u92	Madam Minister, I would like to hear what you are telling us, and I had defended, in the course of the examination of the bill also introduced by Mr Garot about a year ago, positions almost identical to those you have been presenting since the beginning of this discussion. I will not therefore vote for these amendments. However, I would like you to understand the situation in our rural territories and even in the less rural territories, as in my constituency of Saint-Malo; I'm sure you're fully aware of that. I met with the Dol-de-Bretagne Dependency and Mediation Observation Committee, a little more rural part of my constituency, fifteen days ago. According to this association, as we no longer have liberal doctors, people who stay at home are waiting longer and longer because no one can come to see them. And we also don't have a doctor in residential institutions for dependent elderly people, apart from the coordinating doctor! The latter still cannot prescribe, as the PLFSS has not fully granted it this right. The problem is real. People are facing a situation that we no longer know how to respond to. I would like to hear that measures will be announced as part of the My Health 2022 Plan, but this has become extremely urgent, I assure you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u93	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u94	Minister, I have listened to you with great attention, as I have done for all the ministers who preceded you on this bench. To date, however, we are in exactly the same situation, while many incentives and money have been put on the table. Fortunately, there are local and regional authorities, including communities of municipalities, departments and regions, which help to create health centres, multidisciplinary health centres! It is an element of attractiveness that encourages doctors to settle in our territories, thanks to the local elected officials, who seized this file with arms-to-body. I would like to pay tribute to them and congratulate them. But sincerely, the incentives do not produce any results on the ground, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u95	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u96	I mean the Communist Group's position on this important text and on these amendments. This morning we heard in your mouths, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, a lot of emphasis on citizens' rights and duties in access to employment. This afternoon, I hear in your mouths a lot of abstention regarding the duties of liberal doctors in the conduct of their health mission at the service of the common good, of the general interest and of all users. On this point, the proposal for a law aims to introduce an element of regulation, which you are constantly presenting as almost sovietized coercion. However, these articles simply aim, without claiming to be exhaustive, to create the conditions for a better distribution of liberal doctors among users. In this respect, I find you particularly in a position to withdraw from the objectives that you set yourself: it is essential to treat our fellow citizens and our territories equally in the face of this major public service, the public health service, provided by both the hospital and the liberal doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u97	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u98	Minister, I listened carefully to you, as I did for our former Minister of Health: you have almost the same position on this subject. For my part, I think we have been wrong collectively, including in the group to which I belong: we have not given sufficient emphasis to the current urgency. When we meet with the people, especially the elderly and the most vulnerable, and they ask us how to do it because they no longer have doctors, we have no answer to them. It's really more dramatic than you think. What risks do we take by adopting this amendment? Since, according to you, unconventional doctors are those who want new facilities in overdoned areas, then we take no risk! In our departments, in the suburbs, very few doctors work in sector 2! I don't know, or very little, in the Orne. It is Parliament's role to adopt such a provision. I hope that all Members will vote for this amendment, which is reasonable. This is not a compulsory agreement. This applies only to areas overdoed, when a doctor does not retire: what risks do we take? I therefore want to support this amendment, because I assure you that people are becoming increasingly angry. In the great national debate that you have launched and in which I will participate, it is a matter that comes back. In fact, the inhabitants are harder than we are: they ask us why we do not oblige doctors to settle in sub-donored areas!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u99	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u100	They're asking us the question. The answer we provide is balanced. I had said the same thing, Madam Minister, to the one that preceded you, and she had given me the same answer as you did: there is therefore a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u101	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u102	To believe that selective conventioning would be the cure for medical desertification is an immense decoy. It would also be considered that only the lure of gain would guide physicians in their choice of installation in a territory. All the aid that may have existed in the past and that still exists – aid for installation in fragile areas, public service contracts, conventional aid with increased fees, challenges in areas of rural revitalization – are completely inoperative and can even have perverse effects – competition, the effects of a boon. The most operational today is the reorganization, the restructuring of all the health actors within the framework of the care path. This is the delegation of tasks between different health professionals, with nurses in advanced practice: this important improvement will be proposed as part of the My Health 2022 plan for caregivers. It is in this area that we will find solutions, which will be proposed to us in the future bill. I will simply take the example of my department, the Aveyron: a vast territory, with subdenses and a problem of medical desertification that arose more than fifteen years ago. Medical professionals organized themselves, gathered together and sought alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u103	Thank you for closing, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u104	The main problem is isolated activity. They were the first to create health homes. Today, with the support of the departmental council for interns, we have more doctors settling this year than doctors retiring!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u105	I put to the vote Amendment No 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u106	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 98 Number of votes cast 95 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 30 Against 65
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u107	I put to the vote Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u108	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 99 Number of votes cast 95 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 33 Against 62
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u109	I have before me a number of amendments on the additional article after Article 1. Amendments Nos 40 and 1 may be subject to joint discussion. I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u110	The removal of the numerus clausus and the overhaul of access to the first cycle are on the agenda of the health bill that we will be debating shortly. This is a good thing: the commission of inquiry on equal access to the care of the French already proposed it. Yet, it is possible to go even further so that the distribution of future physicians meets the needs of the territories. For, of course, we need more doctors, but above all we need a better distribution of doctors throughout the country. The Committee of Inquiry has thus submitted the idea, which the Libertés et Territoires Group supports, of a numberrus apertus, i.e. a minimum number of places which, defined at national level, could be adapted and increased by region, according to the needs and territorial possibilities of training. This number would be left to the discretion of the university branch, in dialogue with regional health agencies and universities. The adoption of this amendment seems to us more than necessary if we are to take more account of the needs and specificities of the territories in the training and subsequent installation of our future doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u111	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u112	This amendment concerns the modulation of the numerus clausus proposed by our colleague Arnaud Viala in a bill tabled a few months ago and co-signed by a number of parliamentarians. It would change the scope of the current system by deciding the numerus clausus on the basis of criteria related to population, territorial inequalities and the training capacities of the institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u113	I call Mr Nury to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u114	This amendment by Arnaud Viala aims to ensure that the first two cycles of medical studies are assimilated to the bachelor and master levels, that the teaching is organised around a common core and that it is shared with the other health sectors. It is also a question of removing the requirement of accreditation for trainee teachers, which discourages practitioners from taking trainees, particularly in subdenses where they are already overwhelmed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u116	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u118	The health bill will remove the numerus clausus. It will include an ambitious reform of the second cycle of medical studies as well as the entry into medical studies, aimed in particular at ensuring a greater transversality between the different health professions so that they learn to cooperate. Provisions to change the conditions of entry into the curriculum are currently the subject of wide consultation with the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation and with all student and medical organisations. I would prefer that we wait until the end of these consultations, also with the deans of the faculties of medicine and with all the paramedical trainings that also have an interest in these transversalities, to build a robust project, likely to win the support of all. I will, of course, oppose all the amendments which simply aim to amend the numerus clausus. We have made a commitment: it will be a pure and simple deletion. Concertation is under way. It will succeed in the coming months and the transformation of entry into the medical curriculum is for 2020. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am therefore against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u119	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u120	Our system of care is a direct result of our system of physician training, which in this case is a matter of reform. First, national classifying tests should be rethought to better meet the health needs of our territories. A national ranking is incapable of correcting territorial inequalities in the provision of care and access to care. That is why we propose to replace the current system with regional classification tests. These would contribute to the anchoring of future doctors in the territories, especially where the supply is in deficit. In fact, a regionalization of the classification of the boarding school would favour a better match between the positions offered for interns and the regional peculiarities of the medical demography. This would help to stem the flight to the best-equipped regions and to settle medical students in their training areas. These regional tests would be open to students who have validated their second cycle of medical studies in the region concerned. However, medical students could take part in the tests organized in two other regions and change regions during their boarding school, particularly because of the medical specialty to which they aspire. It is simply a measure of proximity and in this case of the effectiveness of access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u122	The committee expressed an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u124	My opinion is unfavorable. Your proposal seems to be common sense, but in reality all this is already organized regionally – I am not talking about the ranking examination. You put in the same bag the final assessment of a doctor's skills and the regionalization of positions, but in reality these are two parallel processes. The ranking exam is used to assess the competence of physicians. It will be amended by the Health Act, replaced by other types of tests. This examination is national. On the other hand, the number of posts open to interns is determined at the regional level by the RHAs according to the needs of the field, hospitals and health professionals. The opening of posts is therefore already regionalised and as a result your amendment loses all interest. I'm sorry, Mr. Member, but he's already satisfied with the current organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u125	I have before me an amendment No 41 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 53. I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u126	The decompartmentalization of the practice of medicine to which our health care system must achieve cannot be realized or perpetuated without going hand in hand with a decompartmentalization of the training of health care professionals, particularly doctors. This formation must come out of the walls of hospital structures to open up to the liberal exercise. The current training system is a hindrance to the installation because, in the absence of knowledge of the different ways of exercising medicine during their studies, young doctors do so at the end of their training, in the context of increasingly long-term replacements. Some students can complete their entire curriculum without ever knowing the liberal exercise, despite a legal obligation since 2009 to carry out general medical courses. This devalorization of liberal practice and general medicine in particular must be stopped. Internships in medical studies must be longer and must take place in territories far from the university. Thus, two thirds of the internships carried out in the framework of the general medical school and at least half of those of special interest should be carried out outside the walls of the CHU, both in public and private structures, in liberal offices and in the multidisciplinary health centres which I was talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u127	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support sub-amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u128	I fully subscribe to the spirit of the amendment just presented to us. I would simply bring a editorial nuance: since the internship is to be carried out during the third year, I propose to refer to twelve months, instead of twenty-four. It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u130	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u131	The commission rejected them. In his personal capacity, the rapporteur is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u133	I would ask you to withdraw your amendment or the opinion will be unfavourable. Indeed, honourable Member, through the plan for access to care, we have opened up the places of reception of trainees, not only during the third cycle but also during the second cycle of medical studies. We even offer externals, and not only interns, internships in subdenses, generalists or specialists, We have already heard that the interns, whether in specialty or in general medicine, who will do their internship in underdenses areas in liberal medicine will receive an additional 200 euros. All of this is already provided for in the plan for access to care. In addition, we have asked the deans of medical schools to encourage the reception of these doctors in liberal offices by favouring traineeship teachers, whether they are generalist traineeships in health care homes or in isolated medical offices, including for specialist interns, depending obviously on the place of the specialty in the outpatient sector. All this is therefore being implemented and is even speeding up because we are very pro-active on the subject. Your amendment is already satisfied with the plan for access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u134	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u135	The aim of this amendment is to restore power to the territories. The directors of ARS currently identify two areas: the priority intervention zones – ZIP – and the complementary action zones – ZAC. Today, they have the opportunity to challenge the guards to the permanence of hospital care on evenings and weekends, to relieve the emergency, in the ZIPs, but not in the ZACs. In local consultations, however, we can see that this tool would be very useful to them. That is why I ask you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u137	The committee expressed an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u139	Your amendment is intended to extend the income tax exemption for doctors for the remuneration they receive for the permanence of care when they are located in a sub-dense area. This exemption now exists for priority intervention areas eligible for health insurance, which accounts for about 18% of the national population. It is therefore targeted on the most fragile territories. It seems to us that before we consider extending this exemption to other areas, we must first assess its impact in subdenses. And then why extend this exemption to doctors who are not installed in subdenses while all we are trying to do is to strengthen the attractiveness of these subdenses? At this stage, the Government is proposing a withdrawal, otherwise it will be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u140	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u141	I am against this amendment, even though I did not have any permanent care guards in ZAC until recently. First, the incentives have proved to be ineffective. Secondly, we know very well that these zonings can change from one moment to another, especially in rural areas, and that this measure puts in competition doctors who are in ZAC and who go from time to time to intervene in ZIP. Finally, I am opposed in principle to a defi-calisation for the benefit of a group of people who do not need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u142	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u143	Let's still be careful with public money! In the case of professionals who earn a good living, the installation criterion is not that. We must ensure that they move in in good conditions, through accompaniment, including equipment, medical homes, an assistant, internships, and so on. But now it's really starting to do a lot, especially since some doctors settle first, then suddenly discover that they are entitled to a lot of exemptions, especially tax! If we start to be transparent about this type of expenditure, the French and French could be moved by this generalisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u144	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u145	Today, permanent outpatient care guards – PDSA – do not represent the bulk of a general practitioner's income: on average, perhaps 2% of their turnover. It is even a constraint that they impose despite their 70 hours of weekly work. I therefore do not think that this is an extraordinary tax gift. However, after hearing from the Minister on the assessment of the application of the measure in PTAs, I withdraw my amendment. I will present this measure again under the FSLP if, first of all, it is not too costly for public spending, and then if it is effective in maintaining physicians' commitment to ongoing care. In the Gulf of St. Tropez territory, nine doctors are currently carrying out this type of guard, out of sixty that are installed. Today, we are at the prefectural requisitions! So measure what you're saying and what you're talking about at the co-worker's house, and go and study the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u146	As long as you want! Let's redistribute the money to the poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u147	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u148	All Members present here will be interested in this amendment as it aims to allow parliamentarians to integrate territorial health councils. This may seem surprising, but to date parliamentarians are not part of it. Perhaps the cumulation of mandates has meant that for many years they have not asked the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u149	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u150	The adoption of this amendment would be an opportunity to integrate these councils, and thus to have access to the indicators that map the territories, dense areas and subdenses of our constituencies. This would allow us to play even more of our role as a transmission belt between our territories and our headquarters, the department, in order to fully exercise our control mission. This is an important amendment: I am counting on your vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u152	The committee expressed a favourable opinion. Personally, wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u154	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I thank Mrs Dufeu Schubert for presenting this excellent amendment: we wonder why such a proposal was not made before! I assure you that, on these benches, everyone must be in favour of the elected representatives being able to help bring these data back from these communities. The Government is obviously giving a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u155	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u156	The aim of this amendment is to provide for the networking of the entire territory by territorial health professional communities – CPTS – within the next two years. Ensuring access to quality care throughout the country can only be achieved through cooperation and the search for complementarities between each of the actors in our health system. The development of the combined exercise, overall, has been a priority political objective in recent years, and this has been reflected in the law to modernize our health system in 2016, which has made it possible to introduce these flexible arrangements, namely the territorial occupational health communities. The future belongs to such projects, which are not imposed on healthcare professionals but built by them. There are about 200 CPTS today. The government wants more than a thousand by 2022. Given the vagueness around these communities a few weeks before the review of the health bill, particularly with regard to their funding, this amendment aims to provide for the networking of the entire territory within two years in order to improve access to health care, particularly in areas affected by medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u159	The committee has rejected this amendment, but I am personally in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u161	You won't be surprised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u163	In a way, your amendment wants to go faster than the momentum that is being set up on the ground. I am pleased that you share with us the desire expressed by the President of the Republic to deploy the CPTS very quickly on the territory in order to facilitate access to care and to develop territorial missions, but a territorial dynamic is not decreed: it is being built with the actors. Your amendment poses the risk of covering the national territory from Paris with empty shells. I hope that the deployment of the CPTS will be based on the commitment, on the mobilization of professionals who agree, talk to each other, who set up a common project and, above all, who meet the needs of each territory. That is why I have entrusted the conventional partners with the task of negotiating the missions and modalities of financial support for the CPTS. It is for me the best and indeed the only condition of rapid deployment. The Government's opinion is obviously unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u164	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2, 4, 5 and 7, which can be presented together. Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u165	The proposed law places the obligation to install in sparsely populated areas on only newly graduated doctors. However, there is a delay at the first installation, as young graduates are willing to try other ways of exercising – for example, wage-earning, replacement or acting. The mechanism proposed by Mr Viala's amendment No 2 is therefore aimed at all graduates of their first installation, regardless of the date of graduation. The following amendments aim to go further than the original text by providing a concrete solution to rural areas which, every day, every month and every year, lose health professionals, including doctors. It is therefore a question of introducing a constraint to the installation, but framed and punctual. This would make it possible to better organize the facilities and the territorial grid so that even the sparsely populated areas could have professionals. That has been said, Madam Minister, the distress of our fellow citizens must be measured when the family doctor, the attending physician, the field doctor leaves without a successor. Year after year, the number of Liberal doctors continues to decline. In the Orne, it was said by my colleague, they are only 162, or less than last year. It is urgent to act because, as you know, a territory where people can no longer take care of themselves is dwindling. As we sound the alarm for several years, the measures proposed by the state and successive governments have failed. It is necessary to quickly introduce a constraint to the installation, with a steering of the ARS, for a limited period of three years from the installation. This is not, strictly speaking, an obligation to install, but the performance of a brief public service by doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u167	The committee expressed an unfavourable opinion on these four amendments. I simply note that the positions of the LR Group are quite divergent. These amendments, for the time being, are coercive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u168	I'll take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u169	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u170	We have heard completely different analyses. Personally, I appeal to the wisdom of the House, after it rejected the amendment I had tabled to re-establish Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u172	As you know, the Government has decided to implement a new policy on incentives for installation. We do not want coercion because it would in no way guarantee a permanent installation. On the contrary, we are seeking to strengthen solid facilities. Thanks to the strong axes of the Health Plan 2022, medical assistants will be able to return medical time to doctors; in subdenses, we deployed the CPTS, with financial incentives to render public service missions and assume territorial responsibilities; we have created 400 positions of general practitioners with shared exercise city-hospital, positions of physician salaried who will have to exercise in subdenses zones. All this will be deployed this year. For all these reasons, we are against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u173	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u174	I hear your arguments well, but for ten years, everything has been tried in terms of attractiveness, accompaniment, aid, grouping, incentives!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u175	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u176	We have increased the numerus clausus, we group the professionals in liberal and outpatient health centers – PSLA –, in health homes, thanks to a lot of public money; medical students are assisted during their studies, whether through national scholarships or the actions of the departmental councils, such as, for example, in Orne, aids for accommodation, transport and leisure. We help them settle down, with quite large sums of money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u177	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u178	With the rural revitalisation tax exemption scheme – ZRR – they do not pay taxes for five years. Despite all this and after almost ten years of experience in the health centres of the Orne department, I can tell you that the evolution is negative. It even becomes dramatic: we have a doctor for 1,800 inhabitants, against 1100 throughout the territory! That is why I assume, we assume the necessity of constraint: we must be able to remedy the extension of medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u179	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u180	Like the previous amendments, the aim of this amendment is to impose a constraint on the installation of doctors by ensuring that they move to the area of their studies for three years. Very often, the students of the Faculty of Medicine of Caen, for example, do their internship in Normandy, are interns in our hospitals or trainees in our territories but then move elsewhere, either in the south of France or in the metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u181	Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u182	By this amendment, it is therefore a matter of allowing the territories which have hosted these students to benefit from their knowledge and skills for three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u184	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u186	Another coercive amendment as we promote an incentive and dynamic policy. The My Health 2022 plan proposes the transformation of local hospitals, which face difficulties in being attractive, into local hospitals. They will be strengthened by the contribution of professionals, including specialists, who will give them medical time. It is thanks to this organization between institutions, thanks to posts spread over the territories, that we believe that these hospitals are again attractive and not by forcing young doctors to practice there for three years. I don't think that would completely reassure the population. It is preferable to encourage shared exercises between health facilities. That's what we're going to do and that's what you're going to discuss in a few weeks. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u187	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u188	In the opinion of all, the mixed liberal and salaried exercise is necessary to better organize the provision of care but also to meet the expectations of professionals, and not just the younger ones. Measures are in place to that end. They are in the right direction but, in our view, remain largely inadequate. To go further, we need regulatory changes in order to allow for a truly mixed framework of exercise, within the framework of common law and not in an experimental framework with uncertain funding in the long run. We need to rethink the status of hospital practitioners to promote not only mixed practice at a given time, but also bridges throughout the career. The attractiveness of the mixed exercise has proved its worth. You know Belle-Île-en-mer, Madam Minister, and you certainly know "the Belle-Île-en-Mer effect": this island of Brittany faces a double challenge, its insularity and a population multiplied by six every summer. By proposing a mixed exercise, it has led to a good result since it has multiplied its number of doctors, listen to the minister, by three! It is imperative that we follow this path. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] We could also think about opening the joint exercise city-hospital to other health professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u190	The committee has given an unfavorable opinion to which I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u191	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u192	One cannot consider that the increase in the rates of hospital practitioners will solve the question of the medical fracture. I even fear that this will have a negative effect by preventing some of our fellow citizens from accessing the medical supply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u194	In addition to the 400 positions of salaried general practitioners shared between the hospital and the city that will be created this year, article 39 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2019 allows for an experimental period of five years to be derogated from the article of the Public Health Code relating to intra-hospital liberal activity. Within the framework of the health legislation that will be proposed to you, we have chosen another strategy that will allow the modernization of the conditions of medical employment in public health institutions, in particular to diversify the conditions of practice of practitioners, in order to promote mixed exercises between hospital practitioners and liberal physicians. This is a major issue for the attractiveness of hospital medicine today. We are not in favour of an increase in the rates of hospital practitioners. We prefer to offer them a shared medical exercise by offering them the opportunity to practice a liberal activity next to their hospital post. With this in mind, we invite you to vote on the provisions of the future health law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u195	I have before me three amendments, Nos 30, 8 and 9, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u196	When it comes to the provision of care, it is actually less in the number of doctors than in the number of available medical hours that must be reasond. The evolution of the profession of doctor – feminization, the demands of the younger generations on their working conditions, the increase in administrative tasks... – tend to reduce the medical time available, most often to the detriment of the underfunded areas of doctors. However, the available medical time could be increased in these areas left out by the new generations by extending the duration of physician activity. To this end, medical practice should be further encouraged in the context of job-retirement cumulation. However, the measures taken in this direction remain too timorous. In fact, a retired doctor who pursues or resumes an activity is now obliged to contribute to the basic and supplementary old-age insurance scheme without any additional fees being paid by the doctor's contributions. This does not induce physicians to use this device. By this amendment, we propose that retired doctors who are still active should be encouraged to go to the underfunded areas and receive a reduction in their social security contributions, as part of a contract with the regional health agencies, which would result in a total exemption from pension contributions, without the condition of an annual income ceiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u197	May I suggest, Mr Nury, that we defend Amendments Nos 8 and 9 at the same time?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u198	Good to see you, Madam President. Amendment No 8 proposes to encourage retired doctors to practice part-time in a sub-dense area, thanks to the tax exemption from the income they would receive. This condition is important for the device to bear fruit. It can also apply to remote consultations, in the context of telemedicine, or to the exercise within the experimental device that we will launch in Orne with a departmental health centre, as the PLFSS for 2019 authorizes us to do. An exemption from charges could motivate many retired doctors who want to exercise a few hours but without administrative complications and without being penalized or taxed, especially since these contributions do not generate new entitlements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u199	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u200	The committee's opinion is unfavorable and mine is all the more so. I understand very well that we must recognize the commitment of retired physicians who give their time to receive patients. The question to be asked, however, is whether it is for the old-age scheme to bear a burden which is the responsibility of health insurance. Exempting these doctors from pension contributions on the grounds that they do not have to contribute to their own retirement results in a loss of earnings for old-age insurance, which must be compensated by sickness insurance. Old-age insurance cannot be imposed on a service which is rendered as a matter of national solidarity and which allows access to health for all. It would be up to the health insurance to take over the old-age contributions, so that we stay in the same circuit. Let us not forget that when you contribute for retirement, you do it for yourself but also for others. This must also be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u201	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u202	My opinion is unfavorable. We've already acted. Since 2017, we have increased the contribution exemption limit for retired doctors from 11,000 euros to 40,000 euros per year. Today, the report of the Access to Care delegates recommends going beyond this threshold. We talked to the doctors to discuss this ceiling. We will be able to make regulatory amendments and will do so very soon, in a decree or by-law. Our goal is to find the right balance. It is for us to encourage the exercise of retired doctors who wish to continue to pursue an activity without endangering the Caisse autonome de retraite des médecins de France, because the exemptions weaken it to the detriment of the other doctors who use it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u203	On Amendment No 47, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u204	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u205	This iconic amendment will, I think, mark this bill. If it is voted, it will indeed have a direct impact on all our fellow citizens, especially those who, living in the underprivileged area, find it difficult to find a treating doctor. Our committee's patient hearings allowed us to gather strong evidence. It is unacceptable to hear that some people, for lack of a referral doctor, are obliged to rent a hotel room in a large city, at the lowest possible price, and then wait until evening to call SOS Médecins and have a visit to a doctor who can renew their prescription. In the coming weeks, we will be looking at the ambitious health bill. It will promote the cooperation of health professionals who will provide real responses, cross-cutting and multi-professional. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In the meantime, this amendment will immediately reaffirm the role of the conciliators of the primary health insurance funds. They will be able to actively assist people in their search for a treating physician. We have heard the testimony of some of our colleagues who deplored the fact that some jurisdictions are abandoning insured persons. Indeed, simple lists cannot suffice. They leave patients face to face, a fortiori when it comes to people alone, fragile, in difficulty, socially vulnerable, elderly. One can imagine how difficult it is for them to initiate procedures and negotiate for access to referral physician consultations. This role as a conciliator represents a direct service of our public policies for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u206	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u207	The committee has given a favourable opinion, but we must guard against the big dreams, Mrs Dufeu Schubert. This amendment is not a solution to medical desertification. It simply provides an administrative response: the conciliators will simply designate the patients to whom they will be able to go. That's coercion, Madam Minister! By the way... In addition, by extending the list of their patients, you are going to help increase the pressure already placed on doctors in underdenses, while they are all telling us today that they can't do it anymore and that they're on the brink of burn out. Of course, the possibility of being accompanied in his actions may reassure some of our fellow citizens, but, by grace, do not take bladders for lanterns. Let us not let it be thought that this is the solution to the urgent problem of medical desertification that we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u209	You are proposing, Mrs Dufeu Schubert, that the conciliator of the health insurance fund be contacted so that he may propose a doctor to a insured person who has difficulty finding one. That's a very good idea. We wanted to entrust the mission of finding a doctor treating the CPTS, as part of the conventional negotiation currently under way. Beyond that, it is interesting, as you propose, that health insurance is also involved. It has already put in place support and prevention mechanisms for insured persons, especially the most vulnerable, such as the elderly with polypathology. Health insurance has also created a generic physician number to prevent patients who do not have a treating physician from having their reimbursement reduced when they want to enter a care path. In addition, thanks to your proposal, insured persons in under-denses areas will be informed when a new professional settles near their home. We are therefore of course in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u210	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u211	I cannot believe, Mr rapporteur, that you cannot give a favourable opinion or rely on the wisdom of our House on this amendment. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] A sweet dream? We have just heard the minister and I agree with her. Ensuring that our administrations provide real public service to insured persons is not a sweet dream! It is our responsibility as parliamentarians to reaffirm this dimension and I count on your support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u212	I put to the vote Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u213	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 72 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u214	I have before me two amendments, Nos 43 and 15, which can be presented together. Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u215	If you will allow me, Madam President, I shall begin with Amendment No 15, which sets the age limit for hospital practitioners in Mayotte at 75 instead of 72. This is a derogation because of the unique situation of Mayotte, which has the lowest medical density in France, 94 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to 437 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants in metropolitan France, according to the atlas of the medical demography for 2018. Mayotte therefore remains far below the Eure and Mayenne, mentioned in Mr Garot's report as the least equipped departments, with a respective medical density, i.e. a number of doctors in operation per 100,000 inhabitants, 166 and 199 doctors. In this regard, it is a pity that the overseas countries are not included in this report, even though their health systems are inadequate. Mayotte is thus a medical desert in the private sector, the offer being mainly public. There is the largest maternity hospital in France, which records nearly 10,000 births a year, and local hospital clinics in which about 50 doctors work, with a service for prevention actions. These clinics are treated as medical homes. However, in a liberal medical home, no age limit is set for the practice of private medicine. It should be added that in Mayotte, we lose doctors in several specialties. The age limit imposed on hospitals and clinics is therefore penalising the continuity of the provision of care. To address this problem, there is a need to relax regulation in order to maintain high-level scientific expertise and expertise within institutions. Amendment No 43, which is, in a way, an amendment to the previous one, aims to raise the age limit for hospital practitioners to 75 years in "areas with insufficient care or difficulties in access to care", mentioned in Article L. 1434-4 of the Public Health Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u216	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u217	The committee voted against both amendments. Personally, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u218	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u219	Unfavorable opinion on both amendments. You propose to set the age limit for practicers at the Mayotte hospital centre at 75 years. According to the law of 26 January 2016 on the modernization of our health system, the age limit of common law, set at 67 years, has been extended transitionally to 70 years for hospital practitioners, and 72 years for practitioners engaged in cumulative employment-retirement on a transitional basis until 31 December 2022. The possibility is therefore already available to exercise five years beyond the statutory retirement age. Madam Member, although I know and recognize Mayotte's difficulties, it seems unreasonable to me to go further. I would add that if we take into account the age pyramid of practitioners at the Mayotte Hospital – they are very young – this provision would not be of major use.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u220	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u221	One quarter of the social insurance providers, 26.5% to be precise, gave up receiving treatment in 2016, often because they find it difficult to advance the necessary costs – interviewed, one third of the persons concerned invoke this reason. The amendment aims to re-establish, in experimental form, the generalization of the fee-paying third party to all health professionals practising in the city, adopted in the Act of 26 January 2016, and subsequently repealed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u223	The committee's opinion is unfavourable. Personally, I express a favourable opinion of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u224	[[Smile]] "Favourable wisdom", it's quite original!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u225	Indeed, Madam President, this is new!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u226	If I may, Mr rapporteur, I take it that the committee is unfavourable. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u227	Unfavorable opinion. I understand the internal coherence of the rapporteur. In the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018, we chose to propose real rights rather than formal rights. Among these, the generalization of the paid third party voted in 2016 must be included, because technically, it was simply not feasible. I have committed myself before you on a capacity to set up the paying third party, in particular for the complementary part. We work with mutual societies and private insurers to deploy the technical tools necessary for the generalization of the full-paying third party. Normally, the schedule should be kept, and this mechanism should be available by the end of 2019. The amendment therefore seems premature in view of our technical capabilities. In order to move forward, I rely on the dynamics of the actors rather than on the reiteration of the vote of a formal right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u228	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u229	I hear your answer, minister, but what do we answer to people who cannot treat themselves today? A device "should be accessible by the end of 2019", but by then, what should they do? What should we tell them for the next eleven months?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u230	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u231	In line with the previous amendment, it aims to sign a convention between the Union nationale des caisses d'assurance maladie and the trade unions representing the liberal health professionals, with the aim of putting an end to fee overruns and unifying tariff practices in sector 1. Exceeding very high fees were observed, particularly among oral health practitioners. We must stop this practice, which discourages many of our citizens and hinders access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u233	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u235	There is another mechanism to moderate fee overruns without going through this type of agreement. This is the contract for access to care, signed by professionals, which has now become the controlled tariff practice option, OPTAM. Today, we see a marked increase in the number of these contracts: 55% of sector 2 medical specialists had signed one in 2011. For 2017 alone, the overrun rate decreased by 1.6 points. We are in a phase of progressive dynamics. Given that more and more professionals are engaging in the current system, we prefer to continue its deployment. I add that it was extended to dental surgeons. The arrangements for care provided by the latter have been substantially modified by the "100% health" reform. In the medical convention, these professionals are committed to improving the accessibility of care by allowing for a reduction of leftovers for insured persons. As all of these tools are in place, the Government is opposed to an amendment that simply prohibits fee overruns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u236	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u237	Madam Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer, but you are putting forward a figure that shows that the reduction in the overrun rate remains extremely small. It has decreased, you say, by 1.6 points! This is not a clear trend, as you seem to say. The effect of the scheme you are referring to is very limited, especially when we are aware of the inflation of tariffs which constitute a real obstacle for our citizens to access care. It seems to me that you are satisfied with an extremely weak development in relation to the scale of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u238	The Commission has deleted Article 2. I have before me two amendments, Nos 14 and 18, to restore it. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u239	The aim is to restore Article 2, deleted in committee, and to supplement it with a reference to the training of health professionals. To the extent that Article 2 proposes to use the IRF, the regional intervention fund, to assist in the acquisition of new information and communication technologies, provision should be made for the provision of training to enable our doctors to master these technologies. As we all know, new technologies are essential, especially for the development of telemedicine, but provided that doctors know how to use them. This would be fully in line with the objectives assigned to the IRF by our Public Health Code, and would also be consistent with the approach advocated by a report submitted last November to the Government with a view to strengthening the re-certification, or continuing training, of health professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u240	On Amendment No 18 which will follow, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 14?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u241	Disadvantaged opinion of the committee, but favourable opinion of the rapporteur in his personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u243	Unfavorable opinion. The objectives of the IRF do not correspond to the type of training provided for in the amendment. On the other hand, we fully share the objective of training professionals in digital technology. Thanks to the medical convention, teleconsultation and teleexpertise are already part of the common law: they will be financed as conventional medical consultations. Beyond that, we have provided in the directions of the CPD, continuing professional development, that training in health digital will be a priority for both liberal and hospital physicians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u244	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u245	It is intended to restore Article 2 deleted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u246	What was the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u247	She gave an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u248	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u249	The Government is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u250	I put to the vote Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u251	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 61 Number of votes cast 58 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 23 Against 35
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u252	The Commission has deleted Article 3. I have before me two amendments, Nos 29 and 19, which seek to restore it and which may be subject to a joint debate. I would now like to point out that, on Amendment No 19, the Socialist and related groups have submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u253	We know that today it would be impossible for a large majority of hospitals to operate without doctors who have graduated abroad; there are many examples. The use of practitioners from countries outside the European Union has made it possible to relieve the institutions by bringing them a moment of respite. Thus in Dreux, in Eure-et-Loir, their number almost doubled in the space of seven years. The successful candidates for the practice of the profession of doctor in France must at present justify three years of office, which can only have been performed within an approved body for the training of interns, thus leading to the move of these perfectly competent qualified practitioners almost exclusively towards public hospitals to the detriment of the liberal exercise, especially in the under-funded areas. In addition, as a result of the current authorisation procedure, it is clear that health institutions continue to recruit outside any legal framework practitioners with foreign degrees who practice medicine without being enrolled in the order of doctors. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to revise the procedure for authorisation to exercise in order to include in the table of the order of doctors any doctor holding a foreign diploma who exercises in France, provided of course that he undertakes to practise on a liberal basis. The revised procedure would exempt these candidates from the probationary period. This measure – outlined in the initial wording of Article 3, rapporteur – seems essential to promote their exercise in the city rather than in the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u254	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 19 and give the committee's opinion on the two amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u255	My amendment proposes to re-establish Article 3 as originally drafted. I have a difference of approach with Yannick Favennec Becot because I consider that we must maintain a minimum probationary period – I proposed in this article a year instead of three years now – but that is our only divergence. The committee gave an opinion against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u257	I agree with the rapporteur that the abolition of the probationary period cannot under any circumstances be the counterpart of a commitment to be used in a certain form of exercise because this period is an essential part of guaranteeing the competence of these doctors and of checking their ability to exercise in our health system. On the other hand, more structural and comprehensive measures relating to PAHDU – practitioners with diplomas obtained outside the European Union – whether they concern the monitoring of their competences, the arrangements for allocation and the conditions for integration into our health system, will be included in the draft law on the organisation and transformation of the health system, which will shortly be examined by your assembly. These measures will in particular reduce the duration of the probationary period from three years to two years. Unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 29. The Government is also opposed to Amendment No. 19 because it seems difficult for it to be able to ascertain in just one year, on the sole pretext that it would exercise in the under-dense zone, the competence of a surgeon who will then have full exercise in France. It is the Government's responsibility to provide the inhabitants of those Territories with the same guarantees of quality and security of care. I would add that in the bill I have just referred to, a number of measures on this subject will be brought before your chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u258	I put to the vote Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u259	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 22 Against 45
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u260	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u261	Madam Chair, first of all, I would like to say a word about how our debates are organized in a parliamentary niche: it is very complicated for an opposition group to present all of its bills because if I take two minutes now, I risk preventing, at the end of the day, some colleagues from defending their own bill. Of course, sometimes we play the watch, it is the rule of a game that bothers me deeply, but, in this case, it would be an excellent thing to think about what I have just pointed out because it is not very democratic. Two ideas, however, concerning medical desertification. It is an excellent thing to have pharmacists who vaccinate, medical assistants or assistant medical secretaries, and also to develop training for surgical nurses because otherwise the delays are accumulating, but there has been no financial compensation for them in terms of their studies, knowing that they have lost all their guards and other periodicity, and that many of them are becoming worse. It would be a great thing to think about it. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] Secondly, I would point out that the most important medical desert today is gynaecology. Women can't find a gynecologist anymore. Midwives – or midwives – now spend the first year's joint competition on health studies such as future doctors. We could therefore move things forward on this point. Two little ideas, two minutes lost for my group... but it will be for me the only ones of the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u262	I recall that we have five bills to consider in this parliamentary niche and I invite everyone to draw the consequences. We come to the amendments to Article 4. I should like to point out from now on that on Amendment No 20, I am by the Socialist and Related Group in a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u263	The aim is to go back to the Commission's text by re-establishing Article 4 in its original wording. Of course, the committee gave an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u265	Securing and expanding the use of assistant doctors, the famous adjuvat, is a pragmatic solution in fragile territories that the Government fully supports and which is included in the bill that we will shortly be submitting to your assembly. The wording proposed in this amendment, however, raises a twofold difficulty compared to the one adopted by your Committee on Social Affairs: on the one hand, it targets only underdensed areas, which would not allow us to respond to the difficulties that arise on an ad hoc basis within the territories – I am thinking of the cases of more or less prolonged arrests by several unreplaced doctors – whereas the possibility of allowing adjuvation to other practitioners in the same territories would then be very useful to us; On the other hand, this wording would create a reinforcement physician status that would allow doctors who had not defended their thesis to adhere to the medical convention in their own right and to have their own care sheets, whereas today there are two formulas for non-themed doctors to intervene in those territories, namely the replacement regime but also that of the adjuvat which we wish to extend by the new wording of Article 4. I do not believe that the solution to the difficulties we face would involve the creation of a third category of status. That is what we would achieve. On the other hand, the promotion of existing schemes will have to be actively pursued in order to encourage the most students at the end of training to make use of them. That is why the Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u266	I put Amendment No. 20 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u267	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 23 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u268	On the vote on Article 4, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to Amendment No 28, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 54. Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u269	It is clear from the original proposal that almost nothing remains on the substance: only article 4. If adopted, it will allow physicians practising as assistants or substitutes to practice in under-funded areas, and more only in the event of an exceptional influx of population. It can be said that this would already be a step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u270	Yeah, we can say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u271	But there is a decline in the liberal exercise among doctors, who are turning more towards wage earners, especially at the beginning of their careers. Beyond this decline, it should also be noted that the Liberal exercise is marked by an increase in replacement: in fact, two thirds of the new Liberal doctors work as substitutes, and again, some territories attract more than others. However, the exercise as a substitute or assistant is strictly supervised and requires the authorization of the departmental council of the doctor's order. The status of a replacement physician and of an assistant physician would benefit from being relaxed in order to make it easier to mobilize the available medical resource. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group proposes by this amendment to replace a declaratory regime with the authorisation regime by the departmental councils of the Medical Association.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u272	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support sub-amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u273	I was in favour of the original wording of Article 4, but the committee did not accept it. My sub-amendment states that the deadline would be one month from the date of receipt of the declaration. The commission rejected him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u275	Disfavorable to the sub-amendment and the amendment. Mr Favennec Becot, the future professionals involved in your amendment have not yet completed their training and, as they have not graduated, the possibility opened to them to practise as a substitute already constitutes as such a derogation from the provisions governing the right to practise the profession. The maintenance of a check on compliance with the conditions for issuing an authorisation derogating from the exercise is therefore necessary. A mere declaratory regime could not be enough to give the players in the health system the essential guarantees, I am thinking in particular of patients, who are entitled to expect them from the professionals who take care of them. In addition, an amendment to the adjuvat legislation is included in the future bill that I have already mentioned. Its aim will be to broaden the possibilities of recourse to the adjuvat, without however giving up the conditions of verification of the right to exercise. This is the responsibility of the Government. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u276	I put Article 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u277	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 69 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u278	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 31, as amended, with an additional Rule after Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u279	The purpose of this text is to facilitate the use of physicians as replacements or assistants in under-funded areas. Here again, the Libertés et Territoires Group proposes to go further by creating a "flying doctor" status that would allow doctors who have defended their thesis to come on time to support other doctors, in particular those who are settled in subdenses, as non-employee workers. These complementary and "flying" physicians would enjoy a status of their own which would not be confused with that of the substitute physicians, as the supported physicians would not have to stop their activity, nor with that of the assistant doctors, since the doctors who came to reinforce them would exercise on their own behalf without using the medical care sheets of the installed physician and without retrocession of fees as non-employees. For "flying doctors", this status would have the advantage of limiting the weight of social security contributions, subjecting them to a health insurance scheme in line with that of employees and opening up the possibility for them to form additional protection, particularly in respect of retirement and pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u281	The committee is against this amendment. I am, in my personal capacity, in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u283	The current regulation of the Public Health Code already allows a "themed" physician to replace or assist a physician, under articles 65 and 88 of the Code of Medical Ethics: it is therefore not necessary to create by law an additional category of non-employee physicians. I therefore consider that your amendment is satisfactory and I propose that you withdraw it. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u284	The committee has deleted Article 5. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 21 and 26, to restore it. I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u285	It is intended to restore Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u286	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u287	He's got the same purpose. As I indicated in the general discussion, we are seeking to build on the network of clinics that the minister also mentioned, with the aim of restoring medical time to physicians. We propose to build on both this network and the skills of pharmacists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u288	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u289	The committee is against it. I am, of course, personally in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u291	We know that 97% of our citizens live less than ten minutes from a pharmacy. The density of the official mesh makes it an important point of support for improving access to care in fragile areas. For this reason, the Minister decided to use pharmacists to promote influenza vaccination. In the same spirit, our ministry has also committed, as authorized by the 2019 Finance Act, an experiment that will allow pharmacists to renew treatments and adjust, where appropriate, dosages for chronic patients directed by their treating physicians. It is a measure that enhances access to care and, for example, is designed to alleviate the difficulties experienced by some older persons in renewing their prescriptions. We therefore share the objective that you are pursuing with this amendment. On the other hand, the direct prescription by official pharmacists seems to me at this early stage. In fact, it does not reach consensus among stakeholders, and it risks competing professions at a time when more cooperation between them would be preferable. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u292	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u293	I cannot help but speak on this amendment because I am all the more eager to vote because it takes up one of the proposals I made during the debate on the PLFSS. However, I must make it clear that, in my view, this amendment does not combat medical desertification, but is in line with the normal evolution of coordination and cooperation between healthcare professionals that we must achieve. You can count on me to propose this measure again when we look at the future health bill, because we must finally achieve those cooperations that everyone wants and that will ultimately help people get better care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u294	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u295	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor in support of Amendment No 36, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u296	Today, patients who need it can be assisted during a teleconsultation by a nurse or pharmacist; but their role, as defined in the texts, remains marginal and no corresponding remuneration is foreseen. Perhaps the future health bill will address our concerns: the Secretary of State will certainly shed some light on this. In the meantime, we need to strengthen the role of these health professionals, who will play a major role in the development of telemedicine. Several avenues could be proposed. For example, teleconsultation booths with suitable equipment could be installed in pharmacies, particularly in the most isolated territories, where the presence of specialist doctors is lowest. Some pharmacies already have these booths, but their development could be accelerated by the introduction of incentives and by the remuneration of the pharmacist accompanying the patient during a consultation. Nurses could also play an important role in the development of teleconsultations not only in their office, with the appropriate equipment, but also in the patient's home, with lighter equipment such as tablets. Pending further information on the future role of non-medical health professionals, on behalf of the Libertés et territoires Group, I am asking for a report examining this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u298	Disadvantage of the Committee, on the other hand, favours the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u300	Unfavorable. This report appears unnecessary, if only in light of the timing of the future bill's consideration. We share the concern to involve non-medical health professionals in telemedicine activities. The role of these professionals is also developing: for example, the recent signing of amendment No. 15 to the national convention organising the relations between pharmacists holding official posts and health insurance enhances the support of the patient's pharmacist in teleconsultation. In addition, the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system, which will soon come into discussion in the Assembly, will include a provision on telecare allowing pharmacists and medical assistants to exercise their remote activity through information and communication technologies in the exercise of their competences. This is the counterpart of telemedicine for non-medical health professionals. In view of the timetable and the forthcoming debate, I propose that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u301	Mr President, are you withdrawing your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u302	In view of the light that the Secretary of State has just provided, I am withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u303	I have before me two amendments, Nos 11 and 42, which can be presented together. Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u304	The 2014 report of the Court of Auditors entitled "Health in the Overseas, a responsibility of the Republic" was an alarming finding, as these territories were lagging significantly behind metropolitan France in this area. Mayotte is particularly affected since this French territory is experiencing the most critical situation with "persistent difficulties", in the words of the report. These difficulties are structural in nature, with insufficient provision of care and low medical density, among others. They are also of a financial nature, for example, the full application of health insurance agreements for liberal doctors is impossible. The latest edition of the Atlas of Medical Demography attests that Mayotte remains the largest medical desert in France. It also shows that, unlike other overseas territories and metropolitan France, the number of general practitioners declined by 3.6% between 2017 and 2018 in Mayotte. Also, making Mayotte's territory attractive is a priority. I have been fighting for a long time, with my colleagues in the medical profession, for Mayotte to have a health sector worthy of a territory of the Republic! The Mayotte Future Plan presented in 2018 included an update of the health care supply with a series of measures as one of the priorities. It is necessary that the decisions resulting from the Plan of the Future for Mayotte and the Blue Book be implemented. Amendment No 11 therefore aims at drawing up a report proposing quantified measures and a timetable for their implementation. Like the amendments I tabled earlier, Amendment No 42 seeks to increase Mayotte's attractiveness in the field of health. As I said, this is a prerequisite. To this end, several avenues have been considered, including the establishment of a free medical zone throughout the country. This measure is a strong demand of the medical profession. New-generation free zones created by the 2019 Finance Act exclude medical activities from their scope. During the review, both the PLF and the PLFSS for 2019, requests had been made to address them by including the health sector, notably for Guyana and Mayotte. Given their unique characteristics of medical desertification, exponential population growth and high immigration, these demands seemed to be more than legitimate. However, they were rejected by the Government, which argued that medicine is not a commercial activity like any other. So, what to do? As I like to say for Mayotte: exceptional situation, exceptional response. I've called him back several times, we're the biggest medical desert and we're losing doctors. If tax schemes are not put in place to encourage the installation of doctors, we run into a health disaster and risk finding ourselves in a situation of non-assistance to people in danger! I therefore appeal to France to be responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u305	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u306	The commission rejected them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u308	On these two amendments, I draw up a wisdom opinion. You are asking for a report on the follow-up of the measures put in place to combat medical desertification in Mayotte. These measures are already quite numerous, since Mayotte benefits from all the tools of the plan of access to care but also from targeted or adapted devices, which is fully justified. I am thinking, for example, of the adoption in 2018 of the special exercise allowance to strengthen the attractiveness of the hospital practice in your territory. All these measures are, of course, closely monitored by the Indian Ocean Health Agency. And you probably know that on January 1, 2020, a health agency will be set up for the territory of Mahorais alone, which will allow us to take into account the peculiarities of this island even more closely. I reiterate my wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u309	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u310	I have before me an amendment No 55, which seeks to delete the article. The Secretary of State has the floor to support him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u311	I'm raising the pledge, Madam President. Hence this amendment to delete the article which provided for a pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u312	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u313	This amendment has not been considered by the committee. I, for my part, issue a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u314	We have completed our review of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u315	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u316	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 71 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 54 Against 17
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u317	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u318	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u319	The next item is the debate on the bill by Mr Christophe Bouillon and others for a truly inclusive school (No. 1540, 1598).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u320	Mr Christophe Bouillon, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u321	Mr. Minister of Education, no doubt you know this: "I have noticed that even people who say that everything is predestined and that we can't change anything look at it before we cross the street." We owe it to Stephen Hawking. I quote it first in tribute to the astrophysicist he was, but also because it is a beautiful plea for the inclusive society that we all call for. I say "we," because no one has the monopoly of inclusive society. By answering me yesterday during the question-and-answer session in the Government, you pointed at me, Mr.Minister, when it is not your habit, to ask: what have you done? You even went so far as to say, you didn't do anything. I do not know if your remark was intended for the previous government, which counted in its ranks – excuse for the little – Jean-Yves Le Drian, Annick Girardin, Barbara Pompili, and, I must remind you, also Emmanuel Macron. Your comment was probably about the basic Member I was at the time. Basic deputy, I remember having passed the law of 8 July 2013 for the re-foundation of the school of the Republic which engraved in the marble the school inclusion. I remember passing the 2014 Finance Bill that created the status of the AESHs, accompanying them with students with disabilities, which began in 2015-2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u322	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u323	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] I remember applauding the important decision, which you continued, to transform the positions of school life assistants – AVS – into AESH posts. I remember, like my colleagues, having voted for the creation of posts in national education. Perhaps that's what you thought when you said, minister, that we had done nothing. In any case, these measures, I voted for them, while other Members – I am thinking, for example, of Members Édouard Philippe, Bruno Le Maire or Gérald Darmanin – did not vote for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u324	What a disavowal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u325	As you can see, it seems to me that at this little game, everyone is losing. I am one of those who are grateful to Jacques Chirac for allowing the passage of the law of February 11, 2005. I could also, since you mentioned the past, quote Ms. Sophie Cluzel's words when she was president of a federation of associations for children with disabilities and she noted that much had been done in the previous legislature. I'm not suggesting you play this little game: I'm proposing you rather than after the review of this bill for a truly inclusive school, there are only winners. For starters, I'll talk about the context. You know him: several school years in which families, parents and students with disabilities have experienced difficult times, painful moments, moments filled with uncertainty, simply because they were encountering difficulties in implementing the notification given to them by the departmental house of disabled people – CDMH – of the follow-up to which they were entitled. The number of students officially estimated to be between 10 and 15 per cent for whom such notification could not be implemented from the day of school year. In fact, it is difficult to have accurate figures for that day because statistics are often compiled later. 10% or 15%, that's not much, you'll tell me. No, it's huge! Imagine such percentages transposed to the 12 million students that our country now counts: one would cry out to scandal. We believe, for our part, that it is a scandal not to allow students with disabilities to be ready on the day of their re-entry, i.e. to have at their side the accompaniment which, when notified, is due to them. It was this context that prompted us to take this initiative. Let me turn to the text that we are going to consider in a few moments. We do not ask for the moon: we ask that several weeks before the day of the return to school, families have the guarantee that their child with disabilities will have an accompaniment when notified – this assumes that the request was made at least five months before the return to school. We ask that the accompanying persons, whose work everyone here welcomes and regards the role as essential, be given a genuine status, an initial training worthy of that name and a validation of the achievements enabling them to follow a career path. We ask that teachers be trained, everywhere in France, at a sufficient level, so that they can cope in excellent conditions with the schooling of children with disabilities. We ask that the presence – or not – of children with disabilities in school be taken into account when calculating the number of students. It is indeed difficult for a number of teachers in already overcrowded classrooms – there is ample evidence of this – to ensure that the schooling of children with disabilities takes place in excellent conditions. We ask for a review of the time frame for the CDMH's processing of applications, and we distinguish between the first application and renewals. After hearing the associations of directors of CDMH as well as the representatives of the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy – CNSA – we consider it reasonable that a period of three months should be allowed for the preparation of a first application and a month for renewal. This objective seems to us to be quite achievable and perfectly in line with the developments and reflections under way. We know the mobilization of the various actors to achieve this. We call for an advisory opinion for future schools, whether schools, colleges or high schools, of the actors of the medical and social world in order to make possible in the end what you want, that is, this inclusive shift that will allow tomorrow to accommodate adapted classes in excellent conditions. We need to anticipate this turn and coordinate to allow it to be taken in the best way. In a word, we simply want everything to be done to ensure that the necessary solutions are in place on the day of re-entry. The bill that is before you does not sweep the ecosystem as it exists. It is a carpenter's text, which takes into account all the actors called upon to act in favour of inclusion; I am thinking of the accompanying persons, the families, the teachers, the communities, all those who can play a crucial role in this area. Having referred to the context, heavy, and then to the text, pragmatic and constructive, I would like, in conclusion, to say a few words about the pretext that we are sometimes opposed to. We're told, "We'll see later." Four months ago, when our colleague, Aurélien Pradié, proposed legislation on the same subject for consideration by our House, he had already been given the same pretext. He was assured that a major bill would be introduced. It turns out, however, that the bill says for a school of trust that you are defending, minister, ignores disability. The word doesn't even appear in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u326	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u327	That is why it would be appropriate to make up for this failure with this bill, which will also allow us to take into account the work done by all our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u328	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u329	The other argument that is often put forward is that there would be ongoing consultation. Yes, it is true, no one can ignore it, but this consultation must be completed, if I understand correctly, in eleven days. At that time, proposals will be made. This will require a legislative vehicle to implement them. This is a ready package – provided, however, that the wheels are not removed. This is the perfect opportunity for these reflections to come to fruition. In this respect, we can say that there is no lack of documentation. I would like to mention in particular the remarkable work carried out by Adrien Taquet, who, in May 2018, had made 113 proposals to simplify the lives of people with disabilities. Many concerned the schooling of students with disabilities, and many are reflected in the text before you today. Why return things to later when the matter exists and the reflection has already been initiated? It is no longer a time for consultation alone, but it is also a time for decision-making. [[Christian Hutin applauds]] To conclude, minister, and to resume my initial formula, I ask you to look on your left and right before crossing the street and take into account the constructive work that has been done by all parliamentarians. I ask you all the more strongly that this morning, in committee, most of the amendments I tabled to restore the original text of the bill have received a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u330	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u331	[[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups. – Ms Jacqueline Dubois and Ms Cathy Racon-Bouzon also applaud]] That's if there's a will to build and the gondola! I therefore ask you, Minister, to follow the advice of the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u332	Bravo! That was brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u333	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u334	First of all, Mr rapporteur, I would like to thank you for your speech, and in particular for the tone of the speech. I'll adopt the same one. (Ms Valérie Rabault applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u335	It's better than yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u336	Indeed, it is much better than yesterday: it is immense progress. The reception of students with disabilities is a fundamental challenge facing the Government. That has been said and repeated: for the past 20 years, successive governments have, in a spirit of consensus, made progress on this issue. What I appreciated in your speech, honourable Member, is precisely that you referred to this consensus. I don't feel like I broke it at all, and tonight, I want to reconstitute it with you. I shall therefore spend less than two minutes responding to what you said during the first two minutes of your speech. I suggest that you refer to your question and my answer yesterday, pointing out that your remarks did not have the same tone as today: you had indeed suggested that the Government was doing nothing about disability, which is obviously not correct; On the contrary, we are going to go further than what has been done in the last twenty years. What I answered yesterday was that if you found the current situation so unsatisfactory, why didn't you recognize that the previous government, which you supported, had not solved the problems? But I will not engage in polemics on the subject – just refer to your question and my answer yesterday. Let us follow the path that you propose today. I will gladly look to the left, to the right and to the face before crossing this street that is so important for the general interest. For over twenty years, therefore, we have been trying to address the anxiety and disarray of families. We, the French people, all together, have made progress in this direction. This progress is obviously insufficient, and we all recognize it. With Sophie Cluzel, I have only one course of action in this area: pragmatism, with an imperative of result. This result, we owe it to parents, who are sensitive to the quality of our response. It is the role of the State to assume all aspects of this response. We do so in the name of our motto, especially fraternity. We cannot settle for formulas or incantations, we must move forward, and that is what we do with Sophie Cluzel and Agnès Buzyn. We started by acting with voluntarism. In the 2018 school year, we created 253 local units for school inclusion, ULIS, including 38 in high school, after the 40 already created in the previous school year. Our goal is to open an additional 250 ULIS in high school by 2022. This is an undeniable step forward. Similarly, the national strategy for autism in neurodevelopment disorders, announced by the Prime Minister on April 6, 2018, is reflected this year in the creation of five elementary education units "autism spectrum disorders". We have also strengthened the support of hearing impaired students through the creation of a teaching centre for deaf young people – PEJS – in each academy. In order to meet the ever-increasing requirements of the CDMH, we increased the number of attendants to 3,584 full-time equivalents – FTEs – at the start of 2018. Above all, we wanted to break with the previous situation, which was unsatisfactory because it did not offer a stable situation to the accompanying persons. I take this opportunity to acknowledge the commitment of these women and men who, on a daily basis, allow students with disabilities to have normal schooling. For the first time in ten years, by the beginning of 2018, the number of AESHs has exceeded the number of jobs assisted: there are 43041, for 29,000 assisted contracts. This is progress; It is, of course, insufficient, but it is a great step forward. This trend shift underscores my determination to provide more robust jobs for those who accompany them. This will is also reflected in the amendment of the Education Code to the Trusted School Bill, which we are currently reviewing in committee. I would like to reply to you on this point too, Mr rapporteur. As I said yesterday, I plan to accomplish things in three stages. First of all, there will be the bill that you are presenting to us today, which, as you see, will be considered and will lead to results. There will then be the bill. From the beginning, we say that we will respect the consultation which began at the end of October and which will end on 11 February; It was normal that this bill written several months ago did not contain any elements that would anticipate the conclusion of this agreement. On the other hand, we are now in a position to take into account the penultimate steps of consultation, which will allow us to incorporate legislative elements into the bill by way of amendments. But the truth, you know as well as I do, is that most of the necessary provisions are of a regulatory nature. Their implementation will follow on from what will happen on February 11, based on what is already contained in the Education Code – because, you are right to point out, there are already important things in it – as well as on the law that will result from our discussion today and the bill for a school of trust. You see it: I looked to my left, to my right and to my face. At the limit, I don't care what the sources of the law are. This will be the law, and it will be strong enough to support regulations that will make progress, not the day after tomorrow, but as early as 2019. We have known that since at least last September; It was public and known to all. That is why in October it was important to give us time. Today, the deadline is approaching, and we want, in complete serenity, to realize the progress we all call for. I have nothing to take away from the great objectives that you described earlier; We all have an interest in France being united in reaching them. The three times are coming, and they will soon succeed: there is first, today, the consideration of this bill; There will then be the consideration in the Chamber, after the committee that took place this week, of the bill for a school of trust; Finally, there will be the deadline of 11 February. Sophie Cluzel and I will then be able to provide all the necessary details on the regulatory measures we are considering. To achieve the goal of a fully inclusive school, we are transforming our organizations to be more effective and pragmatic. We have therefore asked the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities to submit concrete proposals for development. That is what we will take into account for February 11. These proposals will allow us to offer all accompanying students with disabilities permanent and professional jobs by the next start-up and the start-up of 2020, in order to improve the quality of childcare. In order to achieve this objective, as soon as we get back to school, we will no longer recruit school assistants under a single integration contract. In other words, there will be no more aided contracts, there will be only AESHs. This is a considerable step forward. The substitution of the AESHs with the aided contracts becomes a concrete reality, which will be even clearer at the beginning of 2019 than at the beginning of 2018, until there are only AESHs in 2020. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you know, until then, a schoolgirl's weekly time constraints were very rarely able to offer full time to the attendants: only 2% of the HSEAs are full-time. We can't be satisfied with it. Thanks to the localized inclusive support hubs, the PIALs, which we set up by experiment this year and which are expected to become more widespread, it will be possible to manage the support of students since the school. This will allow more hours to be allocated to the same person, so to employ him or her on a full-time basis, if he or she so wishes. Our objective is to propose a more rewarding employment contract for the AESH. This is therefore an extremely important step in the history of the last twenty years in the field of student support; We will now have a majority of full-time attendants, if they so wish. In addition, I am announcing this today, we will propose that these hirings be made within the framework of three-year renewable CSDs once, with a CDI at the key, after six years, which is obviously a considerable step forward compared to the aided contracts. The other major challenge for improving the quality of reception is the professionalisation of the attendants. The more robust nature of their status will make it easier. Training has not been a high priority for too many years. She will be. I undertake to ensure that there are 60 actual annual hours of training, and that it takes place at the beginning of the school year, so that the accompanying persons come and train in front of the students. This is another significant step forward in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u337	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u338	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In order to better align their work with that of the teachers, the AESHs will be fully integrated into the educational teams; They will benefit from a dedicated management service, a professional messaging box, the support of their travel costs and, above all, the renovation of their salary scale. All these measures will enable us to transform in depth our approach to accompanying students with disabilities. In conclusion, I want to say that this bill can also be an important step in this direction – even if it is not the only one. We will examine each of its articles in the spirit of consensus that we owe to families. We may not be holding on to the whole of what you are proposing, but we will be very attentive to a number of provisions, which are in line with principles that I personally share. I am thinking in particular of organizing a meeting between parents, educational team and AESH before the beginning of the school year; It is not a question of setting deadlines that could not be met, but of ensuring that the meeting will take place well in advance of the start-up and the start-up. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] More generally, we need to focus on a vision that allows us to move towards inclusive school not only through the training of the accompanying persons, but also by mobilizing the entire educational team, which means looking at the institution in a holistic way. This will allow us to have both a more favourable status for the companions and a more personalized course for the students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u339	In the general debate, Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u340	Unfortunately, I do not have time to go back to the unfortunate incident that took place four months ago here, which saw your majority reject, without debate, a bill on the same subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u341	In that case, why talk about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u342	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This incredible decision of the deputies of the LaREM and MODEM groups was received by the companions, families and children, as well as by all the French, as a form of contempt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u343	It's starting hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u344	Today you have the opportunity to erase the unworthy attitude you had then. We will of course not exhaust the subject this evening with this text: we would need much more time than the few hours which are granted to us by the Rules of Procedure. Our group, as you know, has only one day a year to defend its bills. I shall therefore return only to the first two articles, which are essential to me. Additional, they contain two strong measures to respond to the urgency and disarray of families like AESH. The first is intended to improve the preparation for the return to school of students with disabilities and to ensure that the AESHs are assigned at least one and a half months before their return to school. This is an essential step for families to approach this sometimes dreaded stage with serenity. The second aims to address the precariousness of the HSEAs, their lack of training and recognition. This, sometimes, uses them until exhaustion. I am talking here, not about a few people, but about tens of thousands of employees – from 80000 to 100,000 – often single women with children. Their difficult profession, however, these AESHs live it, for most of them, with passion. The harsh reality of this profession of accompanying students with disabilities, I will sum it up in a few words: part-time work; contracts in CDD renewables six times; no guarantee of "CDIsation"; the possibility of being thanked if the necessary budgets are not available; a wage of 700 euros per month on average, for twenty to twenty-five hours of work. This daily reality, Minister, is that of tens of thousands of people in France, absolutely indispensable, too often unknown and largely invisible. We therefore propose a "ACDISATION" of the AESH, a development of their in-service training and an association of accompanying students to follow-up and follow-up teams. It is therefore the essential improvement in the working conditions of AESH that we want, today; It is the recognition of this profession and of those who exercise it that we propose without delay; It is a positive development that improves the profession and further integrates these staff into the teams of schools, so that they become full members of them. That is at stake in this bill. The ball, it's true, is on your side. Three months ago, you rejected the text I was talking about without discussion; Eight days ago, in committee, you emptied the person who is submitted to us from all content to vote on it, cynically. But this morning, and I welcome it, when we come back to committee again: Members of the majority voted for the restoration of the original text of the Socialist Group, almost identical. Good! But my optimism this morning, Minister, is a little blunt, I must tell you, by your statement a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u345	You wrote the text of yours before I went up to the gallery!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u346	No, no, I just wrote it by listening to you. I don't know what a "strong contract" is: it doesn't exist in the labour code, do we agree?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u347	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u348	[[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Caroline Fiat and Elsa Faucillon also applaud]] We only know CDI. And it's a CDI that AESHs need right now. This bill, Mr Minister and, above all, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, can be voted in its entirety this evening, even if it is improved, of course, by the conclusions of the February 11 consultation or the bill for a school of trust. But no one, neither the families, nor the children, nor the companions, nor any French, would understand that you were not starting this evening. So I really hope that tonight the words or votes of the majority, how to say, will not contradict those of the morning in committee. Some Members of Parliament or ministers of the majority have in fact been denounced for the reversal of voting between this Parliament and the previous one. I therefore hope that the Members of the majority will not forget this evening the vote which was theirs this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u349	[[At 18:50, Mr. Francis Vercamer replaced Ms. Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u350	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u351	Since 2006, the number of students with disabilities in regular schools has more than tripled from 100,000 to 320,000. Schooling these students is therefore a national priority, and today we can welcome these rising figures, which show that they are being included. To think of a better inclusion of students with disabilities is to give them the means to live their schooling, their childhood, their youth in an environment that allows them first to feel good, to feel in their place, to evolve and to create a link. For some of them, it will be in specialized establishments; For many others, it will be at school, this school where enrichment will be as much for them as for their classmates. The analysis and assessment of the needs of each student with a disability must be accompanied by the search for the best fit with his or her school environment. That is the whole meaning of the bill discussed today, and of course I thank our colleague Christophe Bouillon for his work, which gives us the opportunity to discuss this fundamental subject for the transmission to our children of civic and fraternal values. The text, it is true, has been pruned in committee, which leads me to reiterate our desire for a global work on all the points that will make our school trust a school where each student will have the place that should be his or her own. In October 2018, Minister, you launched the "Together for an Inclusive School" concertation. The report that will soon be given in this framework, which we look forward to, will, we believe, mark the starting point of a new debate, which we hope will also be followed by a new major step towards school inclusion in our country. This fundamental debate will allow us to ask a question of society: thinking about better inclusion of students with disabilities ultimately leads us to question the values and the Republic we want. Thinking about an inclusive school means putting the child and its development at the centre of our thinking. In order to do so, all the modalities of inclusion should be included in the debate. The close association of families with the school attendant and all the actors allows for an in-depth and active partnership at all stages of the child's schooling project. I can only welcome this approach. On Article 4, I had tabled an amendment in committee on the formation of accompanying persons. I believe that this training, in its contents, must transmit a common foundation, supplemented by a year of specialization in order to best meet the specific needs of the student and offer the accompanying persons prospects of evolution. If the objective is to ensure complete accessibility by 2027, this specific subject should be studied in greater depth here, through Article 7. A great deal of effort has been made with regard to standards for the physical accessibility of students with disabilities. However, as a former school principal, I have often found that classroom design should be designed, not only for service and safety, but also for comfort and working conditions, in order to make them optimal according to the different types of disability. A truly inclusive school is also a school where the teaching team – and possibly the referent teacher – is fully integrated into the project of building a school building – in fact, it is often integrated, since it is, in most cases, a reconstruction. That is what my amendment to Article 7 is about. Finally, with regard to Article 8, I would like to refer to the debates held at the National Council for Spectrum Disorders of Autism and Neurodevelopmental Disorders. Today, ninety indicators provide statistical knowledge of the needs of persons with disabilities, but only three are used. Let us be lucid: while it is difficult to establish a database based on three indicators, it is obvious that this situation reflects the material, human and financial difficulties of the RHAs – regional health agencies –, the CDMHs or schools to make a diagnosis on the territories. In the long run, coordination work must be considered on this subject. Working towards a better inclusion of our students with disabilities is indeed a social issue; In this regard, we must constantly question and go further for these "dys", autistic children with ADHD – attention deficit disorder with or without hyperactivity – hearing impaired or physically disabled. I do not, of course, forget, in the debate, the working conditions of the accompanying persons – part-time or annualised work, for example – or their wage conditions, which often place them in a precarious situation. I remain firmly committed to the upgrading of this profession, which is not only carried out by single women with children: I want to insist on it, because it hurts me when I hear it say.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u352	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u353	This profession is essential to school inclusion and, once again, to the values we uphold on disability. I will conclude with a line of reflection that we must keep in mind during our debates: a truly inclusive school must prepare these young people for autonomy, for the labour market. Accompaniment must therefore be considered with a view to the autonomy of the pupils. The accompaniments can be different, spaced, and all measures must be put in place so that everyone can win. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] In view of the opposition's role in the democratic debate, and because it shares your conviction, Mr. rapporteur, that it is necessary to act for a better inclusion of students with disabilities, the UDI-Agir and independent group would like to consider this bill, which places the student's interests at its centre, in order to improve the environment in which it operates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u354	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u355	Last October, the Government launched the "Together for an Inclusive School" consultation. Unfortunately, there is every reason to believe, today, that the measures taken in this area fall far short of the urgency of the situation. The resources mobilised are neither commensurate with the stated ambitions nor, above all, with the expressed needs. Of course, we welcome the fact that this matter is on the agenda: I do not dispute the intentions here; All I'm talking about is the acts. Even before the statements were posted, the Ministry of National Education closed, without even warning teachers and parents, the only sign language class in the Seine-Saint-Denis department, of which I am a member. This is not an isolated or anomalous case. I would like to remind you, at the beginning of last year, this time in Argenteuil, another specialized class also closed its doors, in a certain indifference of the academic leaders. Elementary students have thus found themselves in fifth-level classes, which, you will agree, is a pedagogical aberration and, no doubt, a sign of disrespect for the children concerned. No specific accompaniment, except that of dedicated teachers, as always, but taken away from them, was foreseen during the reorientations. This is only a sad indicator of the marginalization in which, at times, the Government plunges these specialized structures, the effectiveness of which is no longer to be demonstrated. I insist: Sign language teaching has proved to be an excellent tool in providing deaf children with the best conditions for their integration. The specialized classes are the only ones offering instruction adapted to the situation of the pupils. It is not for students to comply with the structures, but for national education to ensure that no one is left behind. By destroying the appropriate structures, you maintain, Minister, the myth of spontaneous inclusion. The reality, however, is the marginalization and the decline of the ambitions displayed. The only justification for these closures, in general, is the lack of student applicants. But the reality is very different. The abolition of tens of thousands of assisted contracts has accentuated this logic of exclusion. It has affected, among other things, associations and public services, some of which were involved in the integration of persons with disabilities. Indeed, according to a study by the Directorate of Research Animation, Studies and Statistics of the Ministry of Labour – DARES – dating back to 2016, 64% of recruitments in the commercial sector cannot take place without these devices. For example, they have even fewer opportunities to enter the labour market, while their unemployment rate is already twice as high as overall unemployment, bringing it to almost 20%. These obvious employment challenges are compounded by accessibility, including housing. In this regard, I protest against the way in which, under the so-called ELAN Act, the Government has reduced the proportion of new accessible housing to 10 per cent of the total number of housing units, even though today, of the 155,000 new apartments built each year, only 109,000 are compliant with the standards in question. This decision will only degrade reception conditions. In addition, how could our communities make buildings and public space accessible as the Government continues to reduce their endowments? The same applies to benefits: the Government persists in refusing to raise the allowance to adults with disabilities above the poverty line. We cannot ignore these problems. The bill tabled by the Socialist and Related Group, which I would like to thank, therefore seems to us to be moving in the right direction. It gives answers that are sometimes just leads, but that have the merit of existing and that are right. I will conclude by insisting, after Laurence Dumont, on the precarization of the AESH, which cannot last any longer. When it comes to the marginalization of people with disabilities, it is not possible to compromise. The full accessibility of schools, housing and all structures must be guaranteed everywhere. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] We will therefore support this proposal so that the debate can take place and decisions can be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u356	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u357	I will not use all the time given to me, because I can't wait, I confess, for we can finally look at the sections of the bill. It will soon be fourteen years since the beautiful law of 2005, which included school inclusion, was passed. Since then, there has been an increase in the number of students with disabilities – notably because demand is higher, as inclusive schools have proved successful; In this sense, it's a good thing. But we also see that tremendous progress is still needed. All of you, I'm sure, were asked at the start of 2018 by parents in difficulty, sometimes in great pain, but also by AESHs who deplored the lack of resources or said they were not contacted when they had at heart, even in these difficult conditions, to continue to do their work. Many of us, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have asked you about this, urging you to make more demands. You first replied that a green number had been created; A green number is never a bad thing, but we soon told you – and you soon realized – that it was not enough to remedy difficulties or suffering, and that the line was sometimes saturated. A few weeks later, to our colleague Pradie, who was here defending a bill on the inclusion of students with disabilities, you put forward a motion to reject it on the grounds that a consultation on the subject was under way. Then you told us that we were approaching the bill for a school of trust, a great bill that could be incorporated into the bill. We examined the text in committee this week: still nothing about the AESH. You tell us that we will see at the end of the consultation, February 11, the day we begin our consideration of the bill in open session. It would have been possible, I believe, to wait another week before this examination, so that each and every one of us could contribute to it. Finally, last week, when you examined this bill in committee, you emptied it of its meaning; this morning, you are restoring its content; Then we see amendments from the majority that rewrite the text: I confess that I do not understand much of it. I therefore invite you to clarify and, above all, to allow us to move forward together. So here are the points that need our attention, those that could help unlock difficult situations to offer the best to all children in our country. Article 1 guarantees the placement of an accompanying person for pupils with disabilities, thus ensuring the right of all such children to attend school in their neighbourhoods. I hope that, on this article, we will reach a consensus, because the current situation is, first of all, a result of a lack of caregivers. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the state of the places in the medical-educational institute – EMI –, which has little to do with it, also deserves to be studied. In any case, in order to achieve the beautiful idea of an inclusive school where possible, it is necessary to make the accompanying profession attractive. In this area, there is no secret: if national education is struggling to recruit AESH, it is because contracts are precarious and unattractive, as in many trades in the social sector; As a departmental adviser, I have seen that this is always the case when wages and working conditions are not satisfactory, and these are fewer rights and public services for many users. Taxed part time paid to SMIC, monthly salary of 700 euros per month on average, six one-year renewable CDDs,... There are many demands for this: I will not dwell on it any more. We are very much in favour of all the measures aimed at preparing pupils for their return to school, in particular Article 6, which aims to reduce the time taken to examine applications for human support. But we recall that this provision cannot be effective without additional means. In my department's CDMH, the deadline is six months or more. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] These are the central and concrete articles, which will certainly make progress and will make school inclusion even more effective, even if we will still have work to do after the bill is passed. You will have understood that, before we take a decision, we will be very attentive to the discussion of the articles and the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u358	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u359	A fairer and more egalitarian society is a society that rejects all forms of exclusion: this assertion will certainly be unanimous on our benches. The question of the support and integration of children with disabilities in the ordinary environment, within the framework of the normal cycles of national education, is obviously a very good thing, both for the children in question and their families and for the community as a whole, made of diversity. This is one of the priorities of the Government – we have heard it, Minister – and of the Interdepartmental Committee on Disability. You have just reminded us of the Government's efforts in this area. It is also a pity that this bill comes before us a few days before your own proposals have been put into practice as a result of the consultation, or that the length of the agreement has not been shortened by a few weeks: it would have been much clearer and the discussion would have been facilitated. The text is obviously of common sense and everyone will recognize it, even if – let's be frank – the impact assessment is somewhat lacking for certain provisions; But this is often the case with bills. The cost estimate would require refinement. But we stress the high quality of the proposed measures; There is obviously a need to go further in this area. The first proposal to improve children's access to accompaniment, by guaranteeing a solution 45 days before the school year, went in the right direction, but we were attentive to the objections that were opposed to it and we hear them: the scheme must not turn against the child and the organization in place. However, the simplification of access to accompaniment is crucial, as it is a true journey for the combatant. Inclusion in the so-called ordinary environment is really not easy, especially because of the complexity of the situation, for children with disabilities – especially as a result of remoteness – as well as for reception classes, especially from a material point of view. I hope that this proposal will be reconsidered; In any case, we hope for more details on this point. Our second regret at the conclusion of the debate in committee concerns the weakness of the progress made in favour of the accompanying persons. Mr Minister, you have put forward very concrete proposals in this area. However, the legislation allowed all aspects to be addressed. Securing the status of accompanying persons has not yet been achieved. We know their low incomes, their precariousness, the importance of the turnover, which causes many of them to give up. AESH sometimes arrives in the classroom without information on the child's disability to be accompanied. He then feels helpless and all the stakeholders are in a very complicated situation. The stabilization of status and the recognition of competences are therefore of course essential. With regard to training, some HESAs which have been in place for more than 10 years have not received any training time devoted to the development of inclusive schools. It is therefore necessary to professionalise these accompanying persons, who cannot be considered as temporary adjustment variables, but must take full part in the child's schooling project. In response to these requests, the Government responds to the need to await the outcome of the dialogue; You said that a few moments ago, Minister. But cat scalded fears cold water: last October, you invited us to wait, saying that the bill for a school of trust would allay all our concerns; But that is not the case. Nothing substantial has been done on the subject for several months, even though work has been done upstream. So understand our impatience. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Our group will, of course, take a very careful part in the discussion of the articles. Rather, we are in favour of the bill, which we will vote on if it is strengthened and if we re-introduce what we may have brought out of it a little hastyly in committee. In any case, we look forward to this work: thank you and congratulations for this collective commitment, a beautiful signal for families as well as for the accompanying staff!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u360	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u361	This bill addresses a recurring issue: accompanying children with disabilities during their schooling. We can be pleased that national representation is taking up this theme again. Accompaniment, whether human or material, meets a specific need of a particular child. However, accompaniment to students with disabilities cannot be a prerequisite for schooling. While human accompaniment is essential for some, it cannot be the only way to meet their needs. Welcoming these children meets both a requirement of justice and a requirement of equality, two concepts that go far beyond political divisions – which is confirmed by the consensus expressed by the various speakers on the subject. I would like to reaffirm our vision of inclusive school and, above all, explain the steps we have taken since we arrived at the responsibilities for the education of children with disabilities. Accompaniment of these students requires a comprehensive approach that we defend here with conviction. I recall that Jean-Michel Blanquer and Sophie Cluzel, supported by the majority, did not wait for this bill to lead a proactive policy aimed at making the school fully inclusive. For twenty months, indeed, what have we seen? More than 40000 AESH and 29000 AVS in post during the last re-entry; 38 ULIS already open, out of the 253 planned for the entire quinquennium; 12400 new AESH jobs funded from the 2019 budget; nearly €2.3 billion per year for the support of pupils with disabilities. All these figures show our willingness to make our school fully inclusive. Nevertheless, this text contains proposals that deserve to be discussed. That is why the majority will defend amendments to improve it. Mr rapporteur, I listened carefully to your inquiry yesterday on questions to the Government. Let me tell you that we do not have the same interpretation of the exchanges that took place in committee: I think that they have been rich and that they have, moreover, made it possible to adopt this text. The idea of assigning an accompanying person 45 days prior to the school year is commendable, but it does not take into account the incompressible delays inherent in the processing of the file, its evaluation and, if necessary, the recruitment of an accompanying person. Nevertheless, we all agree that a child must be able to go back to school with his or her peers, with his or her companion, and the Government, with the local authorities, with the majority, is working on it. Here, we all want to go further to encourage and support the schooling of children with disabilities. As you know, a consultation entitled "Together for an Inclusive School" is under way and the conclusions will be delivered on February 11th. We will pay great attention to it. Our method is simple: consult, discuss and propose. That is why, again today, we will discuss. Currently, the AESHs accompany the student in a situation of disability not only for the actions of the daily, but also in his or her social relations, facilitating his or her contact with his or her environment. They encourage it to gain autonomy and, in terms of learning, allow it to refocus, to organize itself, in short to make progress. We will therefore present an amendment to ensure the participation of the AESH in the interviews between the teacher and even the teaching team and the parents, as this is indispensable. This would also contribute to the upgrading of the AESH profession, which includes integration into the teaching teams. Similarly, the creation of a focal point in support of the AESH, appointed at the departmental level, will be proposed, thus responding to strong demands from the actors on the ground. I repeat, this bill initiates debate on the crucial issue of inclusive school; It is commendable, it is necessary, but we must take the time to build up answers to the situation. While the status of the attendants is one of the issues, there are others of equal importance, such as the universal accessibility of the school, the integration of medical and social teams within the school itself, and the training of teachers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the moving Republic Group is willing to discuss the substance and will discuss in detail all the articles of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u362	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u363	Four months. Four months have passed since the bill for the inclusion of students with disabilities was examined, which I had the honour, on behalf of the Members of the Republican Group, to defend before the House. Allow me, minister, at the risk of irritating you, to tell you that I will not work: your little strategy of the magic slate that allows to erase everything is too easy. This episode of four months ago will not be forgotten, and I hear from the beginning that it will be clear: it will take much more than a semblance of listening to erase an offence. An offence, and contempt, not only addressed to the deputies of all oppositions who, on the essential subject of disability, had the intelligence to overcome the divisions; but above all an offence against families, accompanying persons with disabilities, children. We haven't forgotten. Nobody forgot. With one turn of the way, without debate, without bothering to consider a single amendment, with a contempt that no one had so far dared, you put in the trash a bill that could have moved things forward. And if this episode has had the great echo that we all remember, it is not without reason and it is necessary to return to it to understand and not to resume this path. The first reason lies in the subject, its gravity and its urgency. Disability, particularly at school, is indeed an emergency for France: more than 340,000 accompanied children, thousands still without solution; more than 80000 accompanying persons whose precarious status is unworthy of their missions; training that is too fragile, while situations impose much more. Since then, little has changed. Even more astonishing: in the bill for a school of trust, defended by you, minister, the word "disability" does not appear anywhere. Not once!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u364	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u365	The second reason for this anger, ladies and gentlemen, lies in a clanic and brutal attitude. The symbolic burden of your previous rejection motion was devastating. It was not just a question of rejecting the text and its proposals, it was not: it was for the deputies of the majority and for the Government to sabotage the parliamentary debate. You have rejected the debate here in the House. The French, on the ground, have harshly but rightly referred you to your responsibilities. For yes, ladies and gentlemen, when one is an elected representative of the nation, when one is a representative of the people, one must take on his votes, even the least glorious ones; When you are a Member of Parliament, there is no discrete, invisible, erasable vote. [["Oh there! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Four months ago, you had the direct experience of democracy. By rejecting, four months ago, our bill, co-written with all opposition groups, far from sectarian divisions, you have, if I may say so, injured the parliamentary mission. You have wounded the people's deputy mission by ignoring the emergency screams of so many of our fellow citizens. You have injured the MP's mission by using the ease of referring to regulations, orders-in-councils, forgetting that our essential, first and foremost role is to make the law, to change society. However, in order to increase the cause of disability, the force of the law is necessary. You have injured the office of deputy by reducing yourself to the role of docile and disciplined secretariat of the Government. This form of resignation is a serious thing. Do not be mistaken: if our country is where it is, it is also and perhaps even first because your attitudes, your "disconnection" from the real, exasperate the French. Today our colleague Bouillon, on behalf of the Socialist Group, once again brings this vital cause to the heart of our debates. The Republicans, during the examination in committee, expressed their support for the text. Like the Socialists, the Communists, the Unsubs and the constructives had done for our proposal, we will strongly support our colleague's initiative. Gathering us on such matters is our honor and we did it before you even gave us lessons. So thank you to our colleague for his work, which is in the right direction. Or rather, should I say, who was going in the right direction... He was going in the right direction before the majority tried to empty him of his substance. In committee, Members of the majority have not tabled a single amendment – it has become a habit – but they have, on the other hand, methodically, mechanically deleted all the essential articles from the text to leave only a few, more secondary ones. The majority members thus removed the article dealing with the central issue of the status of AVS, AESH and assisted contracts. You have deleted the article that dealt with the time limits for the consideration of CDMH applications, even though the Defender of Rights is constantly alerting us to these situations. You removed the article that would have ensured that there were fewer staff in the classrooms that catered for different children. In short, you voted against the essentials to leave only the accessory. You pretended. You have painted this text, without shame, without having really learned the lesson of the episode mentioned above – to the extent that you had the interesting idea to table, under the blessed label "The Republic in the March", some amendments incorporating several proposals from our texts. You certainly know this animal species, that of the grey cuckoos which, unable to make themselves a nest, will lay in that of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u366	Oh, stop it! What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u367	[[Rumor on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the end, you're a little bit of a political cuckoo.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u368	And you crows!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u369	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Unhappy that you don't really have a nest, that you don't have your own ideas, you take back the nests of others. The "new world" seems to be populated by these new political cuckoos. The method is less visible, but it remains the same: to sweep away all significant and courageous advances in disability, ladies and gentlemen. We need to deal with important issues. Don't miss out on the essentials. In a moment, the Republican MPs will discuss the status of the accompanying members, the trainings, the deadlines for processing applications – concretely, seriously, effectively. Obviously we already hear you: "wait for consultation of the Government"... Yesterday we had to wait for the law for a school of trust, in which there is, I repeat, nothing in favour of disability; Today we would have to wait for your consultations! You promise concrete measures from 11 February to the evening, even though the consultations will only be completed for a few hours. Why are you doing this? We don't want to wait any longer. We have already conducted hearings, we know, we measure the urgency of the situation, dozens of reports have been published. We have credible solutions to propose and we want to vote on them. We are going to debate this text because it seems that you have understood half the lesson. The Republicans will fully assume their responsibilities. We will vote, support, discuss, amend. We will reintroduce the essential question of the status of the accompanying persons, their formations and the deadlines for examining applications. We are going to be a force to propose, to defend bold ideas, as we have been doing for several months on this subject. For, contrary to what you support, the opposition proposes and you, the majority, reject. Minister, the law of the Republic is not in the shadow of your office: it is voted here in the Assembly by the deputies. If you respect Parliament, let it work, do not ignore it. And to those who accuse us of constantly returning to the burden on this subject, I answer clearly: we will not let go. Some fights deserve, impose totality, absolute determination. So yes, we are determined to advance the place of disability within the school. And if, to achieve this, you have to face your own weaknesses, your own inconsistencies, we will. If you have to go back and hope that you begin to understand, then we will go back as often as necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] For we do not do this fight for ourselves, we do it for families, for students, for society and for the idea that we make of the school of the Republic. This fight must be bigger than us. It's not for tomorrow or the day after, it's for today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u370	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u371	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] To begin with, I am still a little surprised, in this place where mutual respect must reign, to see me called cuckoo. That's not my idea of this place of the Republic. While the crucial issue of improving the conditions for the reception of pupils with disabilities at school is regularly discussed in the Assembly, it goes hand in hand with that of their support throughout their schooling. An accompaniment that has long been unsatisfactory, although there are also real local successes that I have witnessed in recent years in my classes, but which obviously require expansion. We therefore welcome the fact that national representation is taking up this issue again. The Government is working with strength and determination through the combined action of Jean-Michel Blanquer and Sophie Cluzel. However, we regret that too tight a timetable. Indeed, the conclusions of the consultation of the actors, which is currently under way, should be given on 11 February, which, hopefully, will be an opportunity to announce measures to better care for students with disabilities. Today's bill for a truly inclusive school has at least the merit of allowing us to debate a central topic and make many advances. It is our responsibility to continue to improve the care of these children. This year, 340,000 children with disabilities are required to attend school. 175,000 of them, 6% more than in the previous year, need support. The first days of the school year revealed delays and dysfunctions that we cannot satisfy ourselves. It is therefore essential to find a solution for – and with – the AESHs. Indeed, we do not want to impose solutions that would not succeed. At a time of great national debate, the ethics of dialogue must be respected at all levels. We would like not to go over the heads of the actors involved in the consultation. Of course, we must find answers, but qualitative answers. Concertation must allow us to go further, to build and to reflect together on concrete improvements. Integration must be carried out in the best possible conditions in order to find appropriate responses to the needs of children and accompanying persons. As such, we must legislate properly and constructively. It is therefore logical to know the content of the current exchanges before passing a new law. On the other hand, most of the measures we are discussing are not in the legislative sphere but in the regulatory field. Let us not encroach on the ground of the real actors and the first concerned. The Group of the Democratic Movement sees this new bill as an opportunity to participate in the current reflection, to debate and to propose. He therefore tabled amendments in committee, in particular to extend the tasks of school monitoring teams to an interface role with parents. He would like to take this opportunity to recall three important principles that should guide our reflection. First of all, public policies must take into account the different levels of disability in order to direct the child towards the structure that will be best for him/her. If contacts between disabled and non-disabled children are to be sought as far as possible, the placement of a disabled child in school as a matter of principle may also be detrimental to the child. Customization is the key. Secondly, it is essential to think about accompanying people with disabilities, whether children or adults, in terms of their journeys. Continuity of the journey, the fight against ruptures must be priorities at every stage of life, as advocated in the Piveteau report, but also at the level of the child's day. That is why we welcomed the proposal in Article 3 for a better association of the accompanying students on the student's journey. Thirdly, it is important not to be demagogical and to take the time to build up responses to the situation. The Modem and related groups would like to see the proposals that will be implemented as early as the beginning of 2019, following the consultation "Together for an Inclusive School", launched with the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities, take into account the three principles set out. This consultation, announced in July 2018 and which began in October, illustrates the action of the majority to encourage the support of students with disabilities. Thus, since the beginning of the quinquennium, the unique status of AESH, helping to include schools, has been partially re-aligned by the shift from a logic of recourse to assisted contracts to a logic of professionalisation. The 2019 Finance Bill also provides funding for 12,400 new jobs for AESH. A total of 43041 full-time equivalents of AESH will be funded this year and more than 29,000 assisted jobs have been created. Moreover, the decree of 27 July 2018 consolidates the initial training of the State diploma of educational and social accompanying, which includes a speciality "inclusive education and ordinary life", by displaying the obligation of a volume of sixty hours of continuous training. Measures to simplify and improve the information system of the Maisons départementales des personnes handicapées de Paris are already planned to simplify its operation. For example, the allowance for adults with disabilities will be granted for life when the disability is not likely to change. It will no longer be necessary to file a new file with the CDMH every four years. At the same time, 38 localised units for school inclusion – ULIS – were created, after the 40 units already set up in 2017 and 2018 within the general, technological and vocational schools. The aim is to open an additional 250 ULIS in high school by 2022. The Modem Group welcomes these advances but, despite undeniable progress in recent years and a proactive policy of our Government, too many obstacles persist for the proper schooling of students with disabilities. The integration of disabled students into school remains a major challenge. While new tools are developing, the issues of timing and continuity of support, the fight against break-ups, at every stage of life but also at the child's day level, are particularly salient. Finding an answer to these questions is crucial for our political family. That is why we believe that the Commission's text contains a number of significant advances which allow us to begin a long-term movement to improve the working conditions of supervisory staff and students. We note the willingness of the Government and the majority, to which we belong in full, to propose concrete elements, in particular better support and consultation between parents and teachers in charge of the child, the association of accompanying personnel in the monitoring of school attendance, and finally the improvement of statistical knowledge in this field. These are elements that need to be improved. The agreement will be concluded very quickly and we can build on the conclusions that will emerge in order to move quickly forward with the regulation in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement hopes that the debate in session can lead to consensual progress, which will have to be amplified later. We therefore approach this debate with confidence and in a constructive spirit that we hope to share.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u372	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u373	Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, recently stated: "The time has come for a change of scale to build a truly solidarity and fraternal society: a society of living together." Beyond good intentions, where do we really stand? At the start of 2018, nearly 350,000 students with disabilities were enrolled in public schools. For some, they benefit from an auxiliary school life, for others from suitable educational support or digital tools that enable them to follow a school similar to that of other pupils. Yet, 48,000 families are still poor, without a solution to properly enrol their children. Despite the €45 billion spent on disability policy, much remains to be done. While it is gratifying that 95 per cent of children with disabilities are in school at the age of 4, it is regrettable that they are exposed to a "risk" of high under-schooling at the age of 3 – between 30 and 40 per cent. In addition, 37% of parents feel that the personalized school enrolment project has not been implemented for their child. In addition, according to the report issued last summer by the High Council for the Family, Childhood and Age, 20,000 children are expected to be accompanied earlier, i.e. 8000 children between the ages of 3 and 6. Finally, one cannot talk about the inclusion of children with disabilities without mentioning the auxiliaries of life and their living conditions: an average wage of 850 euros per month, it does not matter! What had the Government and its majority done to remedy that situation? Nothing. Or rather if: putting sticks in the wheels of deputies Republicans as socialists who, one after another, tried to propose solutions. As too often, the work of the majority has begun in committee. In accordance with its usual practice, it has emptied this bill of law from its substance. Yet, not everything deserved to be thrown into oblivion. I hope that the re-establishment of the text this morning in committee proves that you will have understood it. I would like to take the example of Article 1, which provided that a pupil with a disability should be accompanied by a qualified person as soon as he or she returns to help him or her and that such assistance should be guaranteed no later than the forty-fifth day before the school year. This is a real measure of common sense because, as you know, many parents do not manage to enrol their children in optimal conditions. Measures to enable accompanying students with disabilities to get out of extreme precariousness should also be discussed. If I am not in favour of what is proposed in the original text, their situation cannot remain as it stands. We must recognize the work of those who help all these children. It's urgent. The temptation to sweep everything simply was strong, just like what you did four months ago when our colleague Aurélien Pradié, concerned about the fate of these children, tried to defend a bill to improve the integration of students with disabilities. A sentence in his statement of reasons had struck me, as I find it right: "The inclusion of children with disabilities is an opportunity for all those who will come with them, accompany them, understand them as comrades, perhaps different but equal and enriching. » In order to help these children, he also proposed rethinking the status of those accompanying them, creating a status of "helping with school inclusion", coupled with real training that would have allowed some to specialize. It was also proposed that carers be able to pass BAFA – a certificate of ability to act as facilitator – to work more easily in sports or leisure centres. This measure, which I also defend, seems to me simple to implement. Your attitude towards these bills is simply incomprehensible. It could have been accepted if, in the confidence school bill, some answers to parents' concerns were provided. But nothing. Not a word about the schooling of children with disabilities. The term is not even mentioned. For these children, for our children, let us stop the discussions and finally let us serve the common good rather than partisan tramples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u374	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u375	We are all looking forward to reviewing the articles, but I would like to rectify some of them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] First, let us remember that we are in a three-step perspective. First of all, this evening we will study in good faith each of the proposed articles in order, I hope, to make progress in this area. The confidence school bill will include many measures relating to inclusive schools. I repeat once again that it was drawn up well before the famous consultation started at the end of October, which is due to end on 11 February. It was therefore normal not to pre-empt the conclusions of this consultation and wait until it was completed to take it into account. It is surprising to see you defend the right of parliamentarians while at the same time accusing the Government of taking a position before hearing the views of parliamentarians and all the actors! Respect for the proper conduct of this process may have been detrimental to us, but we would like to wait for all stakeholders to express their views. Measures will be taken for the 2019 re-entry: so we will not be late, compared to last October! Since last September, we've been preparing for next year's season. Progress has been made. You were able to see some of them as early as October, but most of them are the result of the discussions. Either we pretend we don't understand what I'm saying, in order to fuel controversy, or we understand it and we calmly reflect on how we can make progress. It is possible that you spend the evening blaming me for missing the opportunity of October: everyone, whether in this Chamber or listening to us outside, will be able to understand where the right time is and where bad faith is. I simply ask you, now, to hear this: there is a result for 2019, which we have been preparing since last October through a consultation. Disability actors know this very well, as they take part in this consultation. That will happen. I hope that the tone that the rapporteur has been willing to adopt from the outset will be the tone that we will all adopt: a constructive tone, the tone that is appropriate to talk about disability and disabled students, rather than our feelings. The third phase will take place on 11 February, when we analyse the results of the consultation. The consequences of this will, for the most part, be regulatory, since, as Géraldine Bannier pointed out and as we all know, most of the provisions applicable to this matter fall within the scope of the regulation, even if it is of course based on the law, whether it is existing legislation, the one we are debating today, or the bill on the school of trust. It should be recalled, on 11 February, that neither of these laws was adopted. It will therefore still be time to draw lessons from the dialogue. This process of listening, of concertation, which avoids haste, also avoids cutting grassy wheat: this would have happened in October, since the proposals we are considering today are far more successful than those contained in the October bill. This is a serious way of doing things, which takes the subject seriously, without seeking to politicise it, but instead, as the rapporteur has said, seeks to cultivate the spirit of consensus that has existed for twenty years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So I will not go back to that, because I think the explanation is very clear. Everyone will be able to refer to it if an ambiguity persists. Tonight, I wouldn't want any of these unnecessary polemics. We need to look at the articles, and that will allow us to move forward in the coming months, in order to have a beautiful 2019 start, with real progress for those who interest us: students with a disability, and those who have the beautiful mission to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u376	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u377	The committee has deleted Article 1. I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 76, 46, 59 and 43, which can be discussed jointly. No 76 is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos. 81 and 82. Amendments Nos 46 and 59 are identical. Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u378	A very great expectation, families like AESH, concerns their mutual relationship. This is why we want to establish an interview between the family, the school attendant and the teachers in charge of the child's education, on the educational adaptations and adjustments recommended in the personalized school education project. It is important to recognize the place of accompanying students with disabilities within the educational community, giving them the opportunity to meet with parents and attend meetings of school monitoring teams. In addition, it remains important for families and children with disabilities to be able to meet with the accompanying person when he or she takes up his or her duties. These elements will help to build trust, promote the education of students with disabilities in an inclusive environment, and strengthen and improve the conditions of their schooling, both for accompanying students and for the family and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u379	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support sub-amendment No 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u380	This sub-amendment tends to strengthen this proposal. But first, and as I have a rather narrow mind, you have noticed, minister, I have to make an effort to understand. I've been feeling like I've been in another dimension for a few minutes. You are right to call for the examination of this text with impatience. That's exactly what we told you four months ago, but then you wouldn't... The impression is that there are two parallel dimensions, where memory expiry times do not exceed four months. But above all, on this specific subject, the Republican Group and I agree with the proposed provision: we must be able to have time that involves the accompanying and the parents of the pupils. And it turns out that we're so much in agreement with that that's what we proposed four months ago. I found what the Members of the Republic on the move had said to us in committee: it was superfluous because, in practice, it was already done, the law was not necessary in this matter, the regulatory power could provide for it... It's only bad students who don't understand, minister. The good ones are eventually able to do it. We defended this position four months ago, we always defend it in the same way, except that we ask that this first meeting, which brings together all the actors who will accompany the students, be held at least fifteen days before the school year. It is an imperative you will not find any material obstacle: it is quite possible, and more than necessary, that, fifteen days before the school year, everyone can know what will happen on the day of the school year. This meeting shall not take place within 15 days or one month of the child's schooling. That is the subject of this sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u381	What about sub-amendment No 82, Mr Pradie?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u382	This supplementary sub-amendment also aims to strengthen your proposal, by ensuring that there is another player around the table that is currently missing: the managing community. This is for two reasons. Communities are involved in the education of individual children or children who are different from others, first of all from the point of view of real estate: on the day the child starts school, the building management community must have provided for the installation of ramps and other devices, or sometimes even a classroom, in order for the child to be educated in good conditions. This is one of the first missions of the community. His second mission concerns the extracurricular field: it is not only the activities that take place after school time, but also during the meridian break. It is imperative that the community involved in managing these times be able to participate in this first accompaniment-setting meeting around the student. These two associated sub-amendments make it possible to give additional substance to the proposal contained in the amendment. Knowing your highly constructive mind, I guess you won't mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u383	On the identical amendments Nos 46 and 59, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u384	I would like to recall why Article 1, as originally drafted and as reintroduced this morning in committee by way of amendment, is essential. The important question for parents and students is how things will happen on the day of school. Failures have also been reported by families to parliamentarians, often at their permanence. The figures we know vary between 10% and 15% of the difficulties in implementing the support when it is necessary. [["Exactly! » on the SOC benches]] The idea, quite simple, of telling families that they can go on vacation with the assurance that the day of school will go well for their child is essential. It is even the spine, in a way, of this text. It is suggested that 45 days before the start of school, i.e. before the summer, it would not be possible to achieve this for the families to whom it was notified that they would benefit from a companion. However, in the discussion we had in committee, I added an additional condition to this amendment: that the family had submitted the file to the CDMH five months before the start of school year, about in March. Today, many files are filed between January and March. So we're in reality! I doubt it all the less because, during the hearings that I conducted, I was able to meet with actors from the CDMH. Several fellow Members also recalled the work carried out today by the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government, which leads to a kind of harmonisation of information systems between the CDMHs. In short, we are in the process of adopting the idea of shortening the deadlines at all costs and ensuring that we set ourselves as the horizon for the school year. Each of us is capable of imagining the trauma, the difficulty for families to go on vacation without knowing not only where the child will be educated, but, even though it has been notified to them that this child will have a companion, without knowing whether he will be present on the day of re-entry. This is the founding principle of this amendment, which inspires the text. I understand the Government's fear of creating a enforceable right. But imagine what would happen if, of the 12 million children who are welcomed on the day of their return to school, a proportion similar to that of children with disabilities, let's put 2 million children, were on that day without a solution! Imagine the scandal! [[Applause on the SOC, FI and LR benches]] We simply ask, by this reconstructed article, that families be guaranteed that their child, although in a situation of disability, enjoys the same rights as those granted to all French children on the day of his or her return to school. You're capable, minister, of putting a million teachers in front of 12 million students, and we wouldn't be able to do that for students with disabilities? I don't believe it. But you're doing everything you can to make it impossible. We simply need to make this commitment through this text. It'll be a good signal for families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u385	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u386	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u387	You can't say better! He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u388	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u389	Assigning a companion to the student with a disability no later than 45 days before the start of the school year, and providing families with an interview with teachers and attendants before the start of the school year, would simply allow parents of children with a disability to anticipate, reassure and secure their care. That's the least we can do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u390	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments and sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u391	The sub-amendments have not been discussed in committee, but I am quite in favour of point 81. I am against No 82, because I believe that the relationship with local authorities is a matter for the school board or the board of directors. These are the preferred places for interaction with the teaching teams, and this is where the local community, where necessary, can be asked to consider work, for example. It would be a shame to increase the role of school monitoring teams, which remains primarily responsible for the student. Béatrice Descamps rightly said: let us not forget that the objective must remain to take care of the student first. On Amendment No 76, the committee's opinion is in favour. Personally, I am quite unfavorable because it emptys Article 1, as originally written, of its substance. It is partly satisfied by the existing law. Finally, it conceals the idea that the meeting between the teacher, the attendant and the families must take place before the school year. In reality, people discover themselves at the last moment: the accompanying person, when he is lucky enough to arrive on the day of the school year – but this is often not the case – does not know the child and his family, the family sometimes does not know the teacher, who does not know that he is going to accommodate a child with a disability. It is necessary to schedule this appointment before the beginning of the school year. Hence my unfavorable opinion, on a personal basis. On Amendment No 46, the committee delivered a favourable opinion, as well as on Amendment No 59. On No 43, it delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u392	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u393	This article 1e r is important and one can only share the objective it sets, namely a meeting between the family and the AESH before the beginning of the re-entry: it is obvious. How can such progress be made? First of all by recruiting the AESHs upstream of the re-entry. Even if it seems obvious, this is the first problem to be solved. To this end, it is necessary to make this profession attractive, which we have begun to do by recruiting recently AESH rather than aided contracts. The aim is to go even further, in order to avoid any recruitment problems, which was the case in the 2017 and 2018 re-entrys for reasons of attractiveness, even though the budgetary resources were allocated. We must therefore solve this problem in order to be able to be ambitious in achieving the second objective, which is the meeting of parents with the AESH. What is important is that the objective of a meeting prior to the start of the school year be enshrined in the law. On the other hand, deadlines should not be set, because, admittedly, we are not sure that they can be respected every time. You stressed it yourself. I will therefore set this objective by circular to the rectorates, while knowing that its achievement will depend on that of the first objective, which is to make the profession of AESH attractive. Everyone can understand that rigidizing things, setting deadlines that are too precise will have adverse consequences. For example, we can expect this interview 15 days before the start of the school year: everyone knows that, on 15 August, in France, neither the AESH nor the parents will be there, not to mention that the rectorates are most often on holiday from 1 to 15 August! The fact, as I have announced, that three-year contracts for the AESHs will allow us to work very upstream: an AESH of year N will still be there in year N+1, which will facilitate its identification and appointments with the new families he could take care of. The progress that we can make today is therefore to put the principle of a meeting before the beginning of the school year, without setting too precise a deadline: it would not always be respected, even if the objective must be to hold it. One Member was also right to point out, in the general discussion, that we should not focus our full attention on the bilateral relationship between AESH and the family. The spirit of inclusive school is systemic: it is the whole school that welcomes the disabled student. This reception should not be reduced to the relationship between a disabled student and a specialist: this relationship is that of the entire educational community with students with disabilities in the school. The best foreign examples confirm this: everyone must feel involved in this subject, there must be no partitioning. The appointment prior to the school year must therefore take place not only with the AESH, but also with the head of the institution or the professor responsible for disability matters. In the ideal system we aim for, the family will meet all these people. The ideal of inclusive school, which is progressing, will allow us to take a more systemic look. This is the sense of the inclusive localized accompaniment poles that we have created – I have already mentioned them. The institutions, which will receive AESHs – the first experiments have already been conducted – will be able to pragmatically affect these human means to the different families, which will also allow for the development of more collective strategies. We must make progress, both in terms of bilateral relations, through the principle that we include in Article 1, and in terms of multilateral relations, in order to promote this collective logic which I have mentioned very quickly. For all these reasons, I am against sub-amendments Nos 81 and 82, but in favour of Amendment No 76, and I am against the other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u394	Things are clear. It's a good start!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u395	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u396	With regard to Mr Pradié's sub-amendment No 81, as Mr Pradié said on 15 August, it will be very difficult to bring together the teaching teams for this meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u397	Reread the text of the sub-amendment! That's not what I'm proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u398	More seriously, it is not possible to vitrify these meetings, as you ask – this is the stumbling block between our amendment and the others – within a time frame that revolves around the school year. These interviews should be organised as soon as the child's personal education project is in place throughout the year. That is why, Mr Pradie, we are against your sub-amendments. We have the same objective as you: to involve all the actors, who must work in concert, but with respect for the prerogatives of each and, above all, that of the intimacy of the family and the child. We trust the teams: they know when to come together to develop the project for the care of children with disabilities. We are therefore against all the amendments, with the exception, of course, of Amendment No 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u399	This morning, in committee, you were in favour of the other amendments. And now you're against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u400	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u401	We are very committed to ensuring that the planned meeting between the parents, the teacher or the management of the institution can take place as early as possible from the beginning of the school year. The initial 45-day deadline therefore seemed to us to be entirely legitimate. There was a discrepancy between the meeting partners: in all cases, privacy should be preserved, during this interview between the parents, the teacher or the management of the institution. However, he was not wrong to designate the commune as a basic partner, both in terms of material reception conditions and the extra-curricular field, and in order to guarantee, on the said day, a good return to the child. This is why the appointment must be held as upstream as possible: the community must have the opportunity to carry out its part of the arrangements, which are often delicate, sometimes last minute, which will enable the child to get back to school. For all these reasons, we will support Amendments Nos 46 and 59 in order to ensure the necessary adjustments on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u402	In view of the daylight saving time, I shall give the floor only to one speaker per group. Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u403	Let us take the necessary time, on such important subjects! The minister wants us to be constructive. What are we talking about? Mr rapporteur, you have been right to recall this: situations whose unpreparedness is such that it compromises or even threatens to prevent children with disabilities on the day of their return to school. You were right to stress this, Mr rapporteur: while in our country we do not support the fact that only one child cannot be educated on the day of the school year for material matters, we seem to tolerate it when it comes to children with disabilities. The subject is of the utmost gravity. Minister, you are mistaken in wanting to include only the objective in the legislation. No! The law must set the time limit. The rapporteur, in his speech, recalled the last courageous experience in the field of disability: it is the law of 2005, desired by Jacques Chirac. If, at the time, the President of the Republic, the government and the parliamentarians had retreated before all the material contingencies before passing the 2005 law, we would not have made progress as we did, especially in terms of accessibility! It is a mistake, minister: in the Republic, the law precedes the material organization. It is the law that sets the course, not your circulars or any other provision. When it comes to guaranteeing fundamental rights, I do not accept that you can speak of vitrification or rigidification of the law. When it comes to defending fundamental rights, the question of vitrification or rigidification does not arise! Finally, Minister, you have misread my amendment – it is true that you do not seem to be the only one. Sub-amendment No 81 states that the interview must take place "at least 15 days before the start of the school year". If the words have the same meaning for you as for me, it does not require anyone to organize the interview on August 15. This editorial gives everyone the flexibility to organize the interview well before 15 August.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u404	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u405	We have to stop making knots in the brain. I have been mayor of an average city for several terms: whenever I have been asked to hold interviews with parents of disabled children and representatives of the educational community and staff, these interviews have taken place. It's a common practice. Is it necessary to add constraint to constraint? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, the question of the professionalization of staff has long been asked: everyone must sweep in front of his or her door. I'm sweeping in front of mine, since I've been a part of a majority. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This debate is a step forward and I thank Christophe Bouillon for taking the initiative. He's interesting. The minister reminds us that until all the staff concerned are professionalized, it will be difficult to set mandatory appointments fifteen days before the start of the school year. Perhaps we should have amended Mr Bouillon's amendment to provide for a period of two or three years, for example. In any case, the progress is already suitable on the subject. The objective is set. Let us now consider the possibility of reducing delays in future legislation, since everyone wants to move forward in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u406	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u407	I want to denounce immediately what is going to happen throughout the evening: it is a classic procedure in our parliamentary debates, but those who listen to us may not be aware of this kind of manoeuvre. Mrs Rilhac's amendment is likely to be adopted, as her group is the majority. The adoption of this amendment by the majority will bring down all the following. And I bet the same will apply to Article 2: instead of providing for the recruitment of AESHs in CDI, the article will be rewritten and emptied of its substance. The same thing happened in committee eight days ago. We're swimming in hypocrisy! You voted this morning for amendments to which you say you are against tonight! I prefer to denounce your attitude and explain it to those who may be watching us on their TV screen. The 80000 AESHs and the parents of children with disabilities are discovering the hypocrisy with which you are leading this debate. I repeat, that is what will happen, both in Article 1 and in Article 2. I'll take the bet. You say everywhere that this text is great and that we must debate it, but you are emptying it of its meaning and content, so that you can adopt it when there is nothing in it! I'm denouncing him right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u408	We can see that you have the experience of parliamentary life!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u409	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u410	And we are told that the great debate will be of no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u411	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1134.u412	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the bill for a truly inclusive school; Discussion of the proposal for a law establishing a fund to compensate victims of plant protection products; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the establishment of a compensation fund for victims of chlordecone and paraquat in Guadeloupe and Martinique. The meeting is adjourned.
