ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill by Mr Erwan Balanant and others for an effective ban on electric fishing (No. 1809, 1916).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u2	In the general debate, Mr Bruno Joncour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u3	I am pleased that the parliamentary niche of the MODEM and related group allows us to debate again in this Chamber a vital subject for the preservation not only of our seas and oceans, but also of traditional fisheries. The threat of the disappearance of small, human-sized French artisanal fishing, rooted in the economy of a territory and creating jobs, is of course of concern to me as a Breton Member, like all parliamentarians from territories with a maritime vocation. The fishing method that we wish to prohibit combines electric pulse fishing and pole trawling, the chains being replaced by electrodes. In order to facilitate the removal and capture of fish, landfills are sent to the sedimentary layer of the seabed. In March last year, we had already alerted the danger of this destructive fishing technique to the environment and the economy. Our House unanimously adopted a European motion for a resolution by Mr Joachim Son-Forget calling on the French authorities to oppose the authorisation of electric fishing in all its forms, including in the context of maintaining or extending the current derogations. For the MODEM and related Group, it is now important that the effective ban on this practice, which is disastrous for the marine ecosystem, for aquatic life and for the activity of our fishermen, be endorsed by Parliament in order to complete what we started over a year ago – especially since the French Members of Parliament carried this message last January in a forum signed by 249 parliamentarians from all political sides. The question of the preservation of our planet transcends divisions and must have a consensus on all the benches of this assembly – we saw it again during the committee review last week. In the face of the destruction of habitats and marine life, in the face of the almost complete disappearance of certain species of fish, in the face of the distress of French fishermen and their families, who sometimes no longer have any resources to live, we could not content ourselves with a mere regulatory measure. It was our duty to tell our fishermen that we have heard their calls and to put the actual ban on electric fishing in full letter to the law. It is a matter of sending them a signal far stronger than a simple ministerial decree would have been. Because of the particular importance of this ban and the unanimity that brought us together last year, I know that the Senate will quickly seize this issue and quickly put this bill on its agenda. Thus, before the summer, we will be the first country to take advantage of the possibility of an immediate ban on electric fishing offered by the European regulation. Again, France will play its leading role in the fight against climate change as well as in the fight for the preservation of marine biodiversity and the sustainable management of fisheries resources. We will thus join our many international partners who, like China, the United States, Vietnam, Brazil and Uruguay, have banned this technique because of its disastrous consequences for the environment. I would like to welcome the Members of the European Parliament who chose responsibility by voting on 16 April last to ban this practice throughout the European area from 2021 onwards. This decision was not obvious, as it was preceded by several months of intense negotiations between the European institutions gathered in a trialogue. Recall that the Council of the European Union, in May 2017, planned to maintain the derogation granted in 2013 allowing 5% of each Member State's perch trawler fleet to resort to this practice in the south of the North Sea. The European Parliament has therefore sent a strong message on the world stage, demonstrating the will of Member States' parliamentarians, regardless of their political sensitivity, to put an end to a catastrophic technique for fauna and flora. The possibility for States to prohibit electric fishing in their territorial waters before 2021 is extremely important. I hope that other European countries involved in the use of this technique will join us. We all need to take advantage of this tremendous opportunity to eradicate a fishing method that risks completely emptying our oceans and destroying our entire ecosystem. As a result of this ban, subsidies for Dutch fishermen must cease. It is not acceptable that millions of euros of public funds, especially Europeans, should be used to support a destructive fraudulent technique for our planet. Any subsidies should be devoted to the development of sustainable fisheries and to the search for respectful and long-term practices. Absolute transparency on financing must also be ensured on such an important subject. Let us not be mistaken: behind the question of electric fishing is the broader one of the fishing model we want for the future. Back from a devastating industrial fishery, dominated by technology and the quest for profitability, we are convinced of the need to make the choice of a small-scale, man-made fishery, anchored in the economy of a territory and creating jobs. France, as I recall, has the second largest sea surface in the world. We aspire to a fishery that guarantees the fishery resource, but also the preservation of the profession of sea-fisherman and all the land-based trades that depend on it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] The protection of biodiversity and the sustainability of the fisheries economic sector must be priorities for the European Union. So the moment is historic. We must make the choice of a sustainable society – this text contributes to it. Preserving an entire economic sector, combating the desertification of the oceans and defending a sustainable and responsible artisanal fishing model is what we intend to do through this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u4	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u5	In this legislature, the Socialist and related group seeks to promote the concept of the common good. He identified it in his proposals for a safe and quality diet under the EGALIM bill or for a better sharing of value within the company during the PACTE bill. The protection of aquatic living resources and the promotion of sustainable and respectful fisheries are fully in line with this concept. We are therefore very pleased to be able to debate today the bill of our colleague Erwan Balanant, which aims at an effective ban on electric fishing in our territorial waters. This text is supported by the Members of all the political groups in this House, and it is pleased: it should allow us to vote unanimously in favour of this bill which the committee adopted without amendment. The fight against electric fishing has been the subject of a strong mobilization of environmental associations for three years. It was initiated in the European Parliament in 2017 by Bloom and its founder Claire Nouvian, the winner of the Goldman Prize for the Environment and candidate on the Socialist Party's European Wish List and Public Place list for the upcoming European elections. Is it necessary to call him back? Electric fishing involves sending discharges into the sediment to more easily capture the flat fish that live buried. The scratching chains of pole trawls are thus replaced by electrodes. Some see it as an evolution, but what are we talking about? I repeat the rapporteur's words: we are talking about immense hypocrisy. The Netherlands, by far the country with the most use of this technique, emphasises the efficiency of this type of fishing, which makes it possible to significantly reduce the fuel consumption of ships – an argument which, under the guise of ecological dressing, would make us confuse the stakes. This efficiency causes numerous collateral damage, as the electric current saves no organism. Today we are all aware of the impacts of this technique on the marine environment. The study of IMARES – the Dutch marine ecology research institute – showed that 50-70% of large cod caught by trawls had fractured columns. The effects of electric fishing on electrosensitive fish such as sharks and rays, on eggs, plankton, fish physiology or water chemistry are not well known. Beyond the questions about the long-term consequences of this technique on the fishery resource, environmental associations, like many fishermen, consider it cruel. I do not repeat the description of its effects on the marine environment, but it makes us shudder – above all, it shames us. Electric fishing was already subject to a ban with exceptions in the North Sea for only 5% of each Member State's perch trawler fleet. The Netherlands is the first user of this exception, which is strongly opposed by the French fishing community. On 2 February 2018, the Socialist Group, like all the groups, had voted the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to oppose the extension or extension of the derogations allowing electric fishing. On 13 February 2019, the European Union announced the total ban on electric fishing as from 1 July 2021 under the new Regulation on the conservation of fisheries resources and the protection of marine ecosystems being adopted in Brussels. The European Parliament adopted the Regulation on 16 April 2019. It must now be definitively endorsed by the Council. By this regulation, which gives Member States the possibility to limit or ban electrical fishing in their territorial waters without delay – within the limit of 12 nautical miles of the coasts for France – in the transitional period, the European Union gives a strong signal in favour of biodiversity and responds to the ever-increasing mobilisation of our European fellow citizens, aware of the dizzying dangers that threaten our planet, of animal suffering and of the need to introduce rules that are no longer short-term answers to problems of profitability, but that take into account the resources of our planet and that re-integrate in our reflections respect for the living and the common good. This mobilisation of civil society, fishermen and environmental associations in the Member States has made it possible to remove the remaining obstacles to the Commission and the Council, which now gives us the opportunity to take on our responsibilities. As our colleague Dominique Potier pointed out in committee, this bill, tabled by the MODEM Group, is the result of a journey which obviously deserves to be replicated in other areas, in particular agriculture. Our postures and practices yesterday are no longer compatible with our level of information, nor with the demands of the well-informed consumers, nor with the absolute urgency of abandoning our outrages and arrogance towards an ecosystem that we wanted to ignore and enslave. In all coherence, we can only be very much in favour of the single article of this bill, the wording of which is in line with the provisions of the draft European regulation. In keeping with this approach and its support for the European motion for a resolution, the Socialist and related groups will vote resolutely, as you understand, in favour of this bill. Only one question remains: what will be the treatment of this text in the parliamentary shuttle? In committee, our colleagues were a little surprised by the ultimate intervention of a Member of Parliament for the Republic on the move, who seemed almost to regret that the MODEM group had, in a way, "taken hands" on the matter through this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u6	There's internal competition with the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u7	... and accused him, little or no, of arrogating himself the monopoly of the defence of the sea. It is, of course, not up to us to comment on internal differences by the parliamentary majority. Moreover, the first answer given by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Didier Guillaume, at the end of this afternoon's sitting, reassured us rather. I therefore turn to you, Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to ask you a simple question: can you here make the commitment that the Government will place on the Senate's agenda, on the legislative time allotted to it, the bill proposed by our colleague Erwan Balanant, in order to allow its final adoption before the summer suspension? After the announcements made a few days ago by the President of the Republic on environmental issues, we do not want to doubt that you will give this question the legitimate answer we expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u8	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u9	With Gravelines and Dunkirk, he is at the source with regard to electric fishing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u10	Defend your nuclear power plant, Paul!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u11	The subject of electric fishing is once again on the agenda of this Assembly. It is in this Chamber that we adopted, on 6 March 2018, a motion for a resolution on the prohibition of electric fishing inviting the Government to defend this position with European bodies. As a Member of Parliament for Dunkirk, I can testify to the devastation caused by this technique of fishing in the waters of the North Sea. However, banned in Europe in 1998 along with explosives fishing, the technique of electric fishing was reintroduced by way of a derogation in 2007: under the Dutch presidency, the European Union authorised its Member States to equip up to 5% of their fleet with pole trawls as part of an experiment. Taking advantage of this authorisation, the Netherlands has largely exceeded this derogation threshold by equipping up to 25% of its fleet. The number of licences granted is well above the level usually associated with scientific research. Electric fishing is a method that combines electrical impulse and pole trawl. Chains are replaced by electrodes. The discharges sent kill the fish, which go up to the surface and are then recovered by the nets. The Dutch were talking about an innovative technique, which could contribute to the objectives of reducing carbon emissions. We are not fooled: only short-term profit justifies the use of electric fishing. Who could seriously believe that the use of an electrically pulsed net would have no effect on the resource? This method of fishing does not allow any selection. Absolutely the entire resource is devastated by the passage of nets: small and large fish, as well as eggs, larvae and juveniles. If some species are released to the sea, the chances of survival of the fish concerned are low or no, as the electrical discharge damages their spine. The fishermen of Hauts-de-France have reported catches of very small individuals who died as a result of the passage of electric trawls into their fishing zone. It is therefore a real carnage, on which the European bodies have for too long closed their eyes. The question has even arisen, most recently, of allowing the widespread use of electric trawls in other fisheries and fishing areas. While significant damage to aquatic wildlife can be seen, it is an aberration! In 2016, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea issued a notice that revealed two salient information. He noted a certain lack of knowledge on the impacts of electric trawls on seabed species and nutrient dynamics, and the low survival rate of rejected individuals and vertebral lesions on cod or whiting. Attentive on this subject, France took a real stand last year, speaking out strictly against this technique and asking for its ban. The final decision, however, belonged to the European bodies. Although the European Parliament voted against this practice in January 2017, the European Commission has proposed, a contrario, the continuation of the experiment. In recent months, however, the timetable has accelerated, as the trialogue negotiations reached an agreement on 13 February. This agreement, incorporated in a draft regulation, concerns the total ban on electric fishing from 1 July 2021 onwards. This decision, which will soon put an end to the use of this technique, was welcomed by all. Our country has fought to get it. However, the year 2021 may seem to be a far too distant horizon, especially in view of the damage that Dutch ships continue to cause in the North Sea, particularly at the so-called Flanders Bank site. We cannot wait two more years to stop this plundering of the seabed. The bill that Erwan Balanant, rapporteur, presented to us earlier, will enable our country to anticipate European regulations and prohibit the practice of electric fishing in its territorial waters as soon as the European regulation enters into force. It will enable France, on the one hand, to be proactive and to encourage its European neighbours to do the same and, on the other hand, to protect the resource in its territorial waters and the activity of its small local fisheries. Mr President, Mr Erwan, I would like to thank you for your constant investment in this matter. We may regret, however, that it took so many years to bring about a real awareness. Of course, electrical fishing will soon be banned, but the damage it has caused to the resource is sustainable. The consequences for the marine ecosystem seem irreversible. Unfortunately, the figures I have recently received from the maritime cooperative in Dunkirk attest to this disaster. For example, over the past four years, fishermen have experienced a 75% decline in their landings of soles. In Dunkirk, the marine cooperative reported a production of only 22 tonnes in 2019, compared to 217 tonnes on the same date in 2018. This decline in catches has led to serious financial difficulties for small local fishermen, and we will not be able to restore the resource immediately. The suffocation of small-scale fishing and the disappearance of the resource are precisely the reasons why China, at the time, abandoned this fishing technique. I would therefore like to take advantage of your presence on the bench, Mr Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to ask for your support so that financial aid can be paid by the European Union to fishermen affected by the decline in catches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u13	Are you undertaking, Mr Minister of State, to defend a right to compensation for our fishermen in the European courts? Listening to my remarks, you have easily understood that the IDU, Act and Independent Group will support this bill. We hope that it will be adopted unanimously this evening in the Chamber, as it was last week in the Committee on Economic Affairs. A few days ago, the United Nations adopted an alarming expert report on biodiversity, which is very critical. If we do not act, one in eight species, whether animal or plant, may disappear in the near future. Acts can begin this evening with the adoption of this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM, MODEM, LR and GDR groups]] To vote for this text is also to send a strong message to our European colleagues, like the one who brought us together in January 2018. A forum against the practice of electric fishing, again resulting from a joint initiative, dear Erwan, had then been signed by 249 of us, from all political sides. This proves that, when the cause is right, we can come together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u14	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u15	We welcome the consideration of this bill, which seeks to ban, at last, electric fishing. I say "at last" because it took two years of fierce struggle at European and national level to put an end to this barbaric and unworthy practice. At a time when scientists are actually telling us that one in eight species is likely to disappear, it is good that we stop using a devastating industrial technique for biodiversity. I will make a brief history of the incredible mobilisation of citizens, NGOs and political parties that has led to this ban, if only to pay tribute to them. As early as 2017, a coalition of environmental NGOs, including Bloom, and several artisanal fishermen's associations began a campaign against the European Commission, which at the time proposed to declassify this method of electric fishing to declare it conventional. In front of this mobilization, a forum calling for a ban on electric fishing was signed in Le Monde by 249 members of this assembly. A few days later, an amendment to completely prohibit this practice, tabled by Comrade Younous Omarjee, an unsubstantiated Member of the European Parliament, was adopted in plenary session in the European Parliament, winning 402 votes. Following this vote, in February 2019, the European Union banned electric fishing from 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u16	Everything comes to the point who knows how to wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u17	[[Murmures on the benches of the Commission and the Government]] On February 20, 2019, La France insoumée tabled a bill to immediately prohibit electric fishing in the national territory, but you did not put it on the agenda, it is not clear why. For my part, I'm pretending to be surprised. I wanted to make these reminders to show that the ban on electric fishing came from a long fight led by citizens, NGOs and political forces. Merit cannot be attributed solely to this majority, even if it is beneficial that we consider this text this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u18	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u19	Electric fishing was initially banned in Europe in 1998, along with explosives fishing. It was also found in China, Brazil and the United States. This technique has a disastrous effect on biodiversity, since it indiscriminately electrocutes a large number of organisms. It is devastating: for every 100 kilograms of fish caught, 50 to 70 kilograms are discarded at sea. In comparison, rowers discard only 6 kilograms of fish per 100 kilograms caught. In 2007, derogations were granted without any scientific basis to allow the use of this technique in the North Sea: Member States were allowed to equip up to 5% of their fleet with pole trawls, allegedly for experimental purposes. The pretext of scientific research has been used by many countries, including the Netherlands, to abuse electric fishing. For example, 28% of the Dutch fleet is now equipped with electric nets, instead of the 5% allowed. From this situation, French fishermen and, more broadly, French citizens no longer want to do so. They can't take it anymore! We are also hearing that French fishermen have filed a complaint against the Netherlands today. They had already announced that they would not apply the Europe Agreement, as they intend to issue licences to allow 20 additional vessels to fish until the end of the year. The fishermen called for the repair of the damage caused by electric trawlers in French territorial waters and for the recognition of the illegality of these licences. Of course, we fully support them. Electric fishing has devastating socio-economic consequences for artisanal fishing. Since 2014, artisanal fishermen in Hauts-de-France have seen a frightening decline in catches in the south-west of the North Sea; This decrease is almost 80% for soles. Ships make incursions into French territorial waters in front of Dunkirk. The situation is catastrophic for fishermen. They have long been left alone, not receiving any state aid for years. Electric fishing is not only a questionable technique for the exploitation of abusive and cruel nature towards animals – which, I remind you, are sensitive beings. It is also the symptom of an industrial fishing system encouraged by the European Union, which must be put to an end. As the oceans empty themselves of their fish due to overfishing, the fleets of trawlers engaged in electric fishing operate over 200 million square kilometres, an area four times larger than that used by agriculture. Overfishing due to industrial fishing is unsustainable in all respects. First, it causes considerable job losses and lower incomes in the fisheries sector. The World Bank has estimated annual losses from poor fisheries management at EUR 70 billion and allocated 15% of this figure, or EUR 10 billion, to Europe. A figure was published today: on 10 May, the European Union will have already exhausted its natural resources for the whole year. Unfortunately, it is ahead of the rest of the world, for which this famous day of overtaking falls in August. Overfishing as a result of industrial fishing is then an ecological disaster: 33.1% of globally exploited fish stocks are beyond the biological sustainability limit. This figure is three times higher than in 1974. According to the European Environment Agency, 60% of all commercial fish species are not in "good environmental condition". A report by IFREMER – Institut français de recherche pour l'exploitation de la mer – in February 2019 shows that in 2018, only 48% of fish stocks were sustainably exploited in metropolitan France and 27% of stocks were overfished. We welcome the fact that the majority have joined us on the ban on electric fishing, but we must now go further to ensure sustainable fishing. Craft jobs and know-how must be protected by the establishment of an exclusive use of the 12 nautical miles coastal strip for artisanal fishermen. There is a need for equitable multi-year quotas to give visibility to fishermen and to end deep-sea trawling. There is also a need to develop multi-year fisheries management plans to provide professional visibility and sustainable stock management. Finally, the European Union must reform its fisheries agreements to support the development of the states, particularly African States, with which it deals, in order to have access to their wild resources. The EU's arm's length industrial and commercial policy is deadly for the environment and incompatible with artisanal and sustainable fishing. That is why we must put an end to it. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] France, which has Europe's largest seashore and the world's second largest sea surface, behind the United States, obviously has a role to play, a particular responsibility to exercise in order to push ever further the example in this field. Let us start this evening by adopting this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u20	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u21	Electric fishing reduces the sea and ports of the Hauts-de-France to the world of silence. Not the harmonious and poetic silence of the seabed once filmed by Commander Cousteau, but a silence of death. With electric fishing, the southern area of the North Sea, where the villainous derogation granted by the European Liberals to Dutch lobbyists for the fishing of crazy money applies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u22	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u23	... this area of the North Sea has become the North bitter. Amer in a single word, bitter as is Stéphane Pinto, this Bolognese fisherman who animates the fight for the life of the artisans fileyeurs des Hauts-de-France, honouring his mandate as vice-president of the Regional Fisheries Committee of Hauts-de-France, and which our parliamentary mission of information on fisheries has recently heard. Stéphane Pinto talks about a "fish cemetery" and everyone knows he's right. Even the most questionable Dutch studies, which are reluctant to qualify as scientists, fail to rehabilitate the use of electrically driven fishing. This taser of seas with uncontrolled amperage has been emptiness for the last ten years, killing and injuring without discrimination and limit what swims, has scales and gills, goes to search for the resource and eliminates it as close to the coast, where the breeding and nursing territories are, where the juveniles are, where the traditional trawls do not go. Stéphane Pinto, who went to the embassy wherever his fight could find an attentive ear, never goes out without his A4 leaves. On top of that, there are the famous figures of the collapse of the catch of the Hauts-de-France lineers, correlated with the rise in power of the electric fishing. These leaves are proof that it's going wrong in the business. The sea is emptied of its flat fish, and not only of those. These leaves accuse. They say the cemetery that threatens artisanal fishing, which pays very much the price of cleaning the funds by electricity. Stéphane Pinto doesn't let go. He does not abdicate, even if sometimes, in the face of the lack of support of the instances, discouragement and anger await him. When he talks about the forty-three colleagues and as many families as he defends, the emotion is not feigned. It is a certain idea of feeding fishing, of the real economy at the service of the territory and its inhabitants that it wants to protect. It does not resolve itself to the silence of the docks rendered deserted by the gradual disappearance of the lineers. "In my home in Boulogne," he said, " forty-three lineers are threatened in the short term. We've already lost a lot. They couldn't hold. " So, of course, we will vote on the bill, and I thank its rapporteur, Erwan Balanant, for defending it. It is in keeping with the resolution adopted here, unanimously a year ago. I said that at the time: if this resolution did not have a normative effect, it would at least confer on the French Government the legitimacy of national representation in order to impose a triple requirement in the negotiations. The first was to recall that the rule within the European Union is the prohibition of electric fishing as set out in Article 31 of the Regulation of 30 March 1998. The conservation of fisheries resources is at the heart of this resolution. It should therefore be recalled that the practice of fishing by beam trawls associated with the use of impulse electric current results from a derogation. The principle of prohibition must remain the rule in the light of the European Union's international commitments to the preservation of ecosystems and the fight against overfishing. The second requirement was to state that after more than a decade of derogation, the time for experimentation was largely over. The total prohibition of electric fishing in order to preserve the resource and economic activities of artisanal fishing must again prevail. The third requirement stems from the first two: France must resolutely oppose any extension of the derogation from the general ban on electric fishing – I refer to the map that the minister should not have shown to us – everywhere, and not just on a demarcated area. We defend the idea that the force of the law is necessary in this fight and that is the reason for our support. But let us not be mistaken: what is at stake is not a simple fishing technique, but a technique for maximum and immediate profit, which goes against the general interest. This general interest is based on the economic model of a fishery that preserves the resource, makes our ports live and irrigates our coastal territories into jobs. This fishery, regardless of the subject that concerns us, is the victim of electric fishing, which leads to a postponement of the fishing effort to Normandy. The general interest is responsible management of the resource to preserve the future. This responsible management is swept away by electric fishing. If we are about to vote on the bill, we are also saying that it does not go far enough in the analysis or in the demonstration. What is electric fishing the name of? You have to say it. But your text does not do it enough. But I understand, Mr rapporteur, that the pro-European adheres to the liberal treaties that you are cannot share our analysis. Electric fishing is the daughter of liberal Europe, which allows all sectors of the economy to finance themselves at the expense of the real economy and employment. The electric fishing, the unbridled free trade illustrated by the adoption of CETA – which you support and which organizes the setting-up of states by multinationals by subjecting their sovereignty to a private pseudo-arbitrariness – and the privatization of entire services, particularly Regalian, of the State, all come under the same fight, the same logic. The aim is to develop and extend the market logic to all human activities, to bring down all the protections, to play the game of the financial interests of some to the detriment of the lives of almost all, to make capital grow as quickly as possible, without putting it at the service of the development of the territories. What happens to fishing happens to the industry when vulture funds buy businesses and know-how to remove them. These flying capitals found in the electric fishing a jackpot. But that's not all. They are gradually taking control of fishing weapons in our ports. They make the system of fishing rights and authorisations a real market that distorts our fisheries and the entire downstream sector. Over the course of the hearings, the fact-finding mission that I have the honour to preside over is demonstrating this. Electric fishing is the daughter of a globalisation of fishing encouraged by a Europe which, unfortunately, you do not disavow. This lucidity, this analysis is sorely lacking in the explanatory statement of the bill. This reading and analysis makes it possible to understand how and why the derogation granted to electric fishing in the southern area of the North Sea has been extended so long, in spite of all the evidence and all the protests, and why this derogation has itself almost triumphed and become the rule in Brussels where what is pudically called lobbys – not to say "crazy moneymakers" – are the true holders of power. This reading also shows what we see in the work of the fishing information mission: a forward march that hurts. In front of this compressor roller, our country has disarmed. It does not sufficiently support its sustainable fishing model, for lack of a true vision of an activity that has been abandoned and has virtually no political portage. As for its administrative portage, it is weakened, as services shared between different departments without means have insufficient strength to defend the fishery. In France, we have gold with the second maritime facade, with our ports, our know-how and our fishermen on the entire coastline, but our country lacks a global vision to protect, defend, develop and develop this activity in a sustainable fishing logic. Sustainable fishing is the protection of the resource, but also of fisheries and jobs. That is why I will ensure that, without waiting for the minister's order, the bill will be taken up in the Senate by our group if we fail to make this parliamentary journey flourish. It is not because fishing is a European competence that France must disinterest itself and turn its back on the sea. I interviewed the other day the officials of the Ministry, to whom I asked if there was a speech that set the Government's course on fisheries. Silence embarrassed. The question remained unanswered...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u24	You didn't interview the right people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u25	...until this evening, when I agree, the Minister of Agriculture has given some interesting leads that can meet our concerns. But it took a long time to finally hear a speech, a little speech, lacking in depth, but giving at least some hints.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u26	Better late than never!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Prohibiting electric fishing in our territorial waters as quickly as possible without waiting for the entry into force in 2021 of the general ban in Europe is an absolute necessity. But this electric fishing is only the tree that hides the forest. Its prohibition, which we strongly support, will not be enough to defend sustainable fisheries in our country. This will obviously require further action, but we will return to it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u28	Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u29	The oceans cover more than 70 per cent of our planet, and the health of marine ecosystems plays a key role in the resilience of the world living in the context of absolute urgency recalled on Monday by the intergovernmental science-policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services. We must act quickly and collectively to stop overfishing and the destruction of marine biodiversity without a filter. That is why we can no longer afford to accept derogations, including on an experimental basis, for electric fishing. They are indeed the Trojan horse of harmful practices which hinder the progress necessary to achieve the objective of a good ecological state of the marine environment laid down by the European Marine Directive. Electric fishing is a method that, by sending discharges into the sediments to knock the fish back to the surface, is devastating for the seabed. Electrocution breaks the spine and causes internal haemorrhage in most of the large fish affected. It makes no distinction between adults and juveniles. It has effects on fish fertility, thus on species renewal. Even though little is known about marine biodiversity, its role in the marine ecosystem, and various biological properties that can play a major role in health, it is particularly irresponsible to put it at risk through this practice. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] By making this ban effective before the 2021 deadline set by the European Union, France must set an example of its involvement in the environment and sustainable management of resources. There is an urgent need to green the blue economy. I invite you to support this bill without reservation, and I thank its rapporteur for proposing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u30	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u31	I will refer once again to the history of the ban on electric fishing, with the unanimous vote, without any abstention, of our assembly, in March 2018, for the definitive abolition of the electric fishing system following a forum signed by 249 French MPs, all political parties combined; then, the two votes in the same direction of the European Parliament, on 16 January 2018, confirmed on 16 April by 571 votes to 60. In addition, a number of technical provisions were adopted at the same time, in particular the derogation granted to our French sailors for a smaller trawl mesh. After the trialogue, the definitive ban on electric fishing shall be approved as from 1 July 2021, without any derogation from the Commission and prohibiting the renewal of licences which expire on 1 February 2019. The agreement also leaves the possibility for States to ban electric fishing in their coastal waters immediately before 1 July 2021. The Minister of Agriculture, Didier Guillaume, particularly invested in this fight, as well as his predecessor Stéphane Travert, confirmed here, in response to a question to the Government that I asked on 19 February, his willingness to anticipate quickly this ban in our coastal zone of 12 miles – a conviction that you share, Minister. I wanted to remind him of his commitment, but he did so in his preliminary speech. This expected early ban decision seems to fall within the regulatory area – a ministerial order is sufficient. But the MODEM Group has put forward this bill. We join it and we fully support it if it makes it possible to move even faster. Let me also draw your attention to the serious consequences of the Commission's difficultly explained drifts in favour of electric fishing and the abusive derogations granted to Dutch vessels. In addition, Dutch minister Carola Schouten reportedly made a scandalous decision: it would have extended the validity of the illegal licences of the pilot project until 1 June 2019, when they expired in February 2019. It would also have decided to extend twenty-one derogations until 31 December 2019 to conduct so-called research: this is the same misleading argument that the Netherlands has been working for years to circumvent the law. The Minister would also consider that twenty-two other vessels could continue until June 30, 2021. I would point out that initially only 5% of the fleet was authorised, which represented fourteen vessels; In addition, the Commission now prohibits any derogation. As you know, the electric fishing system literally ratifies the seabed at the expense of reproduction. Of the 100 kilos of products on board, 40 to 50 are released to the sea. Over the years, French buildings did not practice it, and their catches were steadily reduced; Their situation is currently dramatic. Indeed, the entire Boulogne-sur-Mer fleet fished 61 tons of soles in the first quarter of 2019, compared to 130 tons for the same period in 2018; it recorded a decrease of 84% in catches compared to 2014. Its forty-three ships plunge inexorably into bankruptcy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It seems essential and justified that the Commission, which has deliberately hijacked its own rules for electric fishing, should consider compensation for French fishing vessels operating in the Channel. This compensation, which I hope is supported in Brussels by the French Government, can be estimated at EUR 2 or 3 million. Having said that, I confirm that the LaREM Group joins the bill put forward by MODEM and will vote on the proposed single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u32	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u33	Tonight, the National Assembly will vote to ban electric fishing in French territorial waters. This vote, memorable in its scope, in the hope that it will generate, through confidence in the national and European institutions it gives back, also by its unanimity, is the culmination of a long road started several years ago. The end of a long road, first of all, for our farmers, who, year after year, for more than a decade, have seen the depletion of fish stocks in general, and of soles in particular. The scarce resource in our seas and oceans puts at risk the very survival of species, but also that of their profession, so hard, so demanding, so essential. The conclusion of a long road, then, for all lovers of the sea, all those who have fought, for so many years, to finally ban this practice of electric fishing in European waters: NGOs, local fishermen's associations, trade unions of professionals, the elected representatives of the maritime facades of our country, all united to protect the resource, the employment, the environment, to convince the most reluctant in Paris, Brussels and Strasbourg, to raise public awareness and amalgamate publics who, yesterday, struggled vainly, before reaching this definitive ban today. The conclusion of a long road, finally, for the French parliamentarians, whether they are here in the National Assembly or they are sitting in the European Parliament, parliamentarians who, for the past two years, have worked, proposed, amended, united most of the time and on all benches, in order to find a broad consensus by changing the most recalcitrant minds, moving the lines and exploding the partisan logic of the blocs. From the parliamentary forum against electric fishing published in the newspaper Le Monde in January 2018 to the vote this evening, not to mention the unanimous adoption by the National Assembly of a proposal for a European resolution condemning this practice, we French parliamentarians have been able to bring our modest stone to this decision to protect the fisheries sector and biodiversity. The ban on electric fishing in French territorial waters will not be the victory of a political camp against another political camp. It must not be reduced to an arm of iron won by one against another, for this would diminish the symbolic significance of the sacred union of all against this devastating method of fishing benefiting only a few. It cannot even sum up clumsyly to a cultural confrontation, simplistic, between different countries, simply because this victory is above all collective, because this victory is above all that of preserving our jobs and our biodiversity. A few blocks away from the European election, the temptation would be great to draw to his political camp the coverage of the victory in this fight against electric fishing, but we must not succumb to it, as the stakes and scope past, present and future of this ban go beyond all of us. [[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] Yes, the action of France, the President of the Republic and his ministers was decisive in the Council, in bilateral meetings and in the framework of the trialogue. Yes, the determination of the European parliamentarians, whether they are unsubstantiated like Younous Omarjee, ecologists like Yannick Jadot or from the right like Alain Cadec, chairman of the Committee on Fisheries in the European Parliament, this unwavering determination of all was crucial at the time of the various votes in order to find majorities in the European Parliament. Yes, the unanimous will of the French national parliamentarians and their multiple actions were an important support at the time of the discussions at European level. On this 9 May, the Day of the Feast of Europe, the total ban on electric fishing in French territorial waters also represents a strong symbol, a symbol that once was the strength of our continent and which can now be seriously lacking. By going beyond our differences, by ignoring our divisions, by uniting for a just cause, it is still possible in this technocratic, bureaucratic European Union to make the path of reason and common sense triumph, the only possible outcome for a European construction at the service of the interests of the peoples who make up it. It is this path of reason and common sense that prevailed, after lengthy and bitter negotiations, leading to the prohibition at European level of electric fishing on 1 July 2021, with an effective implementation possible before by way of derogation, within the limits of the territorial waters of 12 nautical miles, for the countries which request it. It is this derogation that we will apply this evening by voting on this text, with effect as quickly as possible in French territorial waters. Indeed, the immediate prohibition of fishing in our territorial waters has become an absolute necessity. An absolute necessity because, although prohibited within the European Union since 1998, electric fishing has been able to extend along our European and especially French coasts, thanks to a derogation granted since 2007 and allowing this type of fishing by means of electric trawls on an experimental basis, within the maximum limit of 5% of the fleet of beam trawlers in each European Union country operating in the North Sea. This derogation is largely put into practice by Dutch trawlers and even exceeded by them, since we estimate 28 %, or eighty-four trawlers, of the number of Dutch vessels engaged in this type of fishing. The immediate ban on electric fishing in our territorial waters is an absolute necessity because our French fishermen operating in the North Sea, and I am thinking here in particular of the fishermen of my department of Pas-de-Calais, face a perfectly unfair competition, the massive electric fishing carried out by the Dutch allowing to concentrate very large quantities of soles on their market, thus destabilizing competition. Our fishermen do not have the same tools as their neighbours, so it is necessary to defend them, not by pulling the quality of their work down but by aligning the quality of our neighbours' work with our high standards. The immediate prohibition of electric fishing in our territorial waters is an absolute necessity because the quality of the fish caught electrically remains far below the quality of the fish caught with a traditional technique. If we lack reliable data on the nutritional and health consequences of this fishery, it must be noted that this type of electric discharge causes severe haematomas and spinal fractures on fish. In addition, a few months ago, 260 chefs signed a manifesto against electric fishing, pointing out that fish are of such poor quality that nothing can be done about it. The immediate ban on electric fishing in our territorial waters is finally an absolute necessity because this type of fishing poses a serious threat to the ecosystem of our seabed, the preservation of fisheries resources and biodiversity. Non-selective, electric fishing affects all living organisms in the seabed, with serious consequences for resources. For example, 50 to 70 per cent of the catch is released at sea with electric technology, compared with 6 per cent for conventional technology, with extremely low survival rates. As a result, available fish stocks, not just soles, are shrinking, turning the North Sea into a desert, putting a real threat to the continuation of fishing activity. For example, the Boulogne-sur-Mer fishing fleet brought back 61 tonnes of soles in the first half of 2019, compared to 130 tonnes in the first half of 2018. In ten years, sole catches have decreased by 80%. Our Parliament will have acted to save the industry, to safeguard our biodiversity and to preserve stocks. But many outstanding questions deserve clear government answers. Minister, how could a 5% experimental derogation be applied to 28% of the trawls of a national fleet? Will sanctions be imposed on the Netherlands, which has encouraged and continues to encourage this illegality? How do you intend to help those in northern France who have been facing unfair competition for ten years, destroying stocks and seriously endangering their activity? How will you accompany the French filers over the next five years, the time of the replenishment of stocks? Finally, what will be the fishing areas following the UK's exit from the European Union on 31 October, or perhaps before, or perhaps never, even though some fleets fish 50% of their production in British territorial waters? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and the FI group, as well as on several benches of the MODEM group]] The group of Republicans will vote in favour of this text, which is gravitating in the marble of the law, and not in the regulation, the immediate prohibition of electric fishing in our French territorial waters. This immediate ban is a decisive first step towards a more sustainable fishery, more environmentally friendly, and at last giving hope to those involved in the fisheries sector. However, it is necessary to go further and answer the legitimate questions of the professionals of the sea, because the sector is not saved. Minister, the ball is now on your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u34	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u35	The reason I wanted to speak today on the subject of electric fishing is because I can no longer resolve to see images of swollen fish, victims of a particularly violent fishing technique and which has catastrophic effects on marine biodiversity. As the President of the Republic has recently announced, the preservation of biodiversity is a central objective at a time when 1 million species would be threatened with pure and simple extinction. But we know that it is precisely this biodiversity that is directly affected by electric fishing. What nonsense does it make to subject a large number of living organisms to electric shocks in an undifferentiated manner to capture only about half of the fish affected, and to abandon at sea all these other organisms whose chances of survival after discharge are almost zero? Even more serious, it has now been shown that electric fishing leads to a scarcity of certain marine species and an overfishing which runs counter to the European quotas included in the common fisheries policy. More broadly, the negative impacts of this fishing technique on marine biodiversity have been documented for many years, to the extent that China had banned it in 2002 for this reason. To these arguments, some will argue that electric fishing allows for less fuel use, better economic profitability and, above all, that its impact on biodiversity is insufficiently proven. Of course, there is a scientific controversy, but in this case, is it not preferable to resort to the precautionary principle rather than to the full use of this technique whose long-term effects are not currently assessed, as the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea pointed out in 2016? If, however, the sight of these electrocuted fish and their scarcity were not sufficient to prohibit electric fishing as quickly as possible, the economic argument would close this debate. As we know, electric fishing has been banned in the European Union since 1998, but has been the subject of an experiment scheme since 2013 which has proved to be very largely favourable to our Dutch neighbours. The latter have indeed freed themselves from the 5% quota laid down by European legislation and have equipped 28% of their national fleet with these electrified equipment. As a result, Dutch fishermen fish more with fewer boats, thereby reducing the competitiveness of our own fishing industry. Our fishermen, including those in my constituency in Finistère, also suffer from the scarcity of fishery resources and their lower quality, the direct consequences of Dutch fishermen's activity. It is therefore the whole of the French sector, already worried about the prospect of Brexit, which is threatened. In this context, I can only welcome France's commitment to the European level by the President of the Republic and the Government. After intense negotiations during which France played an active role, the European Parliament approved on 16 April last the ban on electric fishing from 1 July 2021. However, it seems legitimate to question the desirability of such a distant deadline when environmental damage and the poor quality of fish caught – 41% of the discard rate – are very present. This compromise, which is essentially political in nature, certainly has the merit of existence at Union level. But, in the context of European elections which are deeply marked by the citizens' distrust of their institutions, it seems to me that we would be well inspired to show political will and, therefore, not to wait until 2021 to strictly regulate electric fishing. It is in this spirit that I fully support this bill, as it is obvious to me that it is necessary. As specified in the draft European Regulation, Member States may, within the 12 nautical miles under their sovereignty, take "non-discriminatory measures to restrict or prohibit the use of impulse electric current". To ban electric fishing in France by adopting this bill today would thus make it more effective, since the ban would then be effective as soon as the European regulation comes into force if the law is adopted before, or as soon as the law is promulgated if the regulation comes into force beforehand. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The triple harmful nature of electric fishing for the environment, French fishermen and consumers is the subject of a real consensus among our fellow citizens. Let us be careful that this will be the same in our Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u36	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u37	The examination of this bill is taking place as our fellow citizens are making progress in raising awareness of the dangers to biodiversity and the great ecological balances. The marches for the climate and the environment are multiplying and our youth is particularly mobilized around these battles. This confirms that our societies are often ahead of their decision-makers. This Monday, in Metz, the meeting of G7 ministers was held, leading to the signing of a simple charter. This document, of course non-binding, is not up to the alarming situation described in the report of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, IPBES, published on the same day. The Chair of this international expert group on biodiversity, Robert Watson, said: "We are eroding the very foundations of our economies, our livelihoods, food security, health and quality of life around the world. » The first IPBES report, which is intended to be the counterpart of the IPCC report on climate change, is particularly dramatic. It highlights an unprecedented decline in biodiversity, the main cause of which is human activities. I want to repeat to this rostrum the dreadful data it contains. Of the 8 million species, animals and plants on earth, 1 million are threatened with extinction and will disappear if we do nothing. This is true not only on earth, but also in the oceans. Only one figure: according to the IPBES report, 66% of the marine environment was significantly altered by human action. More specifically, there are several threats to the seas and oceans: global warming is one, as is overfishing and water pollution, especially by plastics. As you know, I am particularly invested in the ravages of plastic pollution. According to a WWF report released last March, by 2030, global production of plastic waste could increase by 40% and the amount accumulated in the ocean could double. These numbers are scary. We are already measuring the damage caused by the 12 to 13 million tons of plastic that end up every year in the oceans. Their impact on fish balances is proven. But we are slow to act. It turns out that rich countries are also the ones that produce the most plastic. Among them, France stands out as one of the worst pupils in Europe in the field of recycling, with a rate of only 21%, at 10 points of the European average. We are far from the commitment made by the Prime Minister in July 2017 and reaffirmed on Monday by the President of the Republic to recycle 100% of plastics throughout the country by 2025. You will therefore easily understand that we are reacting when the Government fails to fulfil its commitments. I am thinking in particular of the recent setback on the date of prohibition of certain disposable plastics, such as straws: whereas in July 2018 Nicolas Hulot said he wanted a ban in January 2020, it was pushed back on the government's impulse. A world free of plastic pollution necessarily requires the progressive elimination of single-use plastic. For these and many other reasons, we will be particularly active and vigilant in the consideration of the circular economy bill, which is expected to be introduced in the coming weeks in the Council of Ministers. There is, of course, another factor that seriously affects fish stocks: overfishing. FAO estimates that about 93 million tonnes of fish and seafood were caught worldwide in 2017, four times more than in 1950. This overexploitation of resources does not allow stocks to maintain themselves and is particularly destructive of biodiversity. As a result, nearly 60 per cent of global stocks are fully exploited and nearly one third are overexploited. Non-compliance with quotas and illegal fishing are involved, but also certain techniques. Electric fishing is one of them, first and foremost. Figure that the electrodes placed on the trawls send electrical impulses that paralyze the fish and expel them from the seabed. In addition to its violence, this technique is critical in that it is non-selective. For every 100 kilos caught, 50 to 70 are discarded at sea. For comparison, this figure is 6 kilos for liners. It is finally a disaster, because it is particularly destructive of marine ecosystems. It is for this reason that a large number of countries, for some that are at the cutting edge on environmental issues – I am thinking of China, the USA or Brazil – have banned this type of fishing. At European Union level, the fight for its ban has been longer and more difficult, which we should be concerned about. This is due in particular to the position of some countries, mainly the Netherlands. The battle has lasted more than 20 years since the 1998 regulation, which established a first ban on various destructive fishing methods, including electric fishing. Secondly, derogation in transitional periods, this prohibition has been relaxed. Increasing numbers of trawlers have been able to use this technique. In this connection, it should be stressed that the Netherlands has far exceeded the quota of vessels allocated to it. This coincided with the drastic decline in the turnover of the other fishermen, I am thinking in particular of the trappers of the Hauts-de-France or their Belgian neighbours, because once the electric trawl has passed, there is almost nothing left. In 2016, the European Commission even proposed a further extension of the derogations which would have allowed for a quasi-authorisation of electric fishing and would have led to the disappearance of artisanal fishing. The promoters of electric fishing highlight its "innovative" character and the fact that it reduces fuel consumption. Be careful with the green washing. This is certainly not enough to make it a sustainable fishery, as some dare to pretend, on the contrary. 2016 marked a turning point. The mobilisation was led by associations, the European Parliament voted in favour of the total ban on electric fishing. We Members have acted and we can be proud of it. Together with 248 colleagues, I co-signed a rostrum, and in March 2018 our House adopted a European motion for a resolution calling for a ban on electric fishing. All this contributed to the agreement of 13 February 2019 between the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the Union for a ban on 1 July 2021. At this stage, the action of the French Government should be welcomed. This regulation, which was finally adopted by Parliament last April, is not entirely satisfactory. We would have preferred an immediate and total ban. Why wait? We have therefore entered a transitional phase. However, the Regulation allows Member States to prohibit this technique immediately within the limits of their territorial waters. That is precisely what this bill provides for, which we obviously agree with. However, we cannot consider that this text alone regulates the problem of overfishing, which I have referred to as the main figures. If we can rejoice at this victory, it must also question us about the fishing model that we intend to promote, because, behind the fight for or against electric fishing, two conceptions are opposed: that of industrial fishing, by essence not concerned with the great balances and ecosystems and a fishing of human size, strongly anchored in the territories. My preference goes to the second, in particular because it is more respectful of fisheries resources and more concerned with the protection of the environment. It is therefore important to provide better support. This dimension should be included in the next cycle of the Common Fisheries Policy from 2020 onwards. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] That is the wish that we can make on this day of Europe and a few days before the European elections. On 9 May 1950, Jean Monnet declared that "Europe will be achieved through concrete achievements, first creating de facto solidarity". In the face of urgency and urgency, this solidarity must, I am convinced, and I know that you, too, must be built around the ecological transition. Ecology must be at the heart of the European project, it must be its new horizon, the very engine of our continent, which is the world's leading power. Let us live up to our responsibilities. I know that we can make unanimous progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u38	The general discussion is closed. Mr Erwan Balanant, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u39	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for the unanimity that seems to be emerging. The Minister of Agriculture said that today the resource is stabilized. Of course, but the situation is catastrophic in the area we are talking about, south of the North Sea. Following the words of Paul Christophe, I believe that it will probably be necessary to help fishermen and farmers in this region, who are experiencing serious difficulties. Bruno Joncour highlighted one important point, that of European fisheries subsidies. No, they can't go to environmentally destructive fishing methods! In the new sequence that will open after the elections, the European Parliament will have to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u40	Change the treaties!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u41	It's pointless, Mr. Jumel: just adapt them...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u42	Adapt them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u43	... and to make political choices. Mrs Victory, we fully agree: the ocean is our common good. I know that you are thinking about this with Dominique Potier and we must indeed move forward, considering that the ocean is the common good of humanity. Paul Christophe, thank you for your involvement in this text. With the band, we wanted you to be the second co-signatory, so big is your investment. Thank you, too, for the fishermen in your territory, whom you defend! [[Smile]] To return to history, colleagues Éric Coquerel and Pierre-Henri Dumont, I will give the football metaphor, since we are playing in the same parliamentary team: yes, it is a collective victory, but because, at some point, some players have changed sides, which is very good. Everyone, indeed, did not always defend fishing – as far as deep-sea fishing was concerned, it was necessary to fight – but I am still happy to see Éric Coquerel applaud Pierre-Henri Dumont: as a parliamentarian, I think it is a small victory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u44	[[Smile]] Ball in the center!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u45	[[Smile]] That's a lot of emotions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u46	Everyone stressed the importance of this text. This unanimity allows me to ask the Government and the Minister of State to take him back in the Senate. I know that an order would be sufficient to decide on the prohibition of fishing during this transitional period, but for our fishermen, for those in the North Sea who suffer so much, it must be written in the law. Parliament owes it to them. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Finally, the paradigm of our relationship with nature must change. Man must be less the "master and possessor of nature", according to Descartes' formula, than his guardian and protector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u47	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u48	As you know, the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries had to leave for Japan at a G20 meeting on agriculture. I am very pleased to meet you, of course, but also to relay it to welcome your parliamentary initiative, Mr rapporteur, which follows a resolution that was widely supported at the beginning of 2018. As Minister of the Sea – Didier Guillaume and I share the related issues – I welcome the unanimity that is taking place this evening, because this bill concerns both the protection of marine biodiversity, since that is how you designed it, rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u50	... and the protection of fishing activities that respect such biodiversity. This is an excellent thing, for, let us recognize, between satisfecit and lucidity, this is not always the case when it comes to biodiversity and the protection of animal and plant species. For once it's different, so much the better! Several speakers said so, including Mr Dumont, the relay worked between national and local elected officials – here in the National Assembly, in a trans-partisan way –, Government – before Didier Guillaume, with Stéphane Travers – and elected from the European Parliament. This shows that we can change things perfectly, achieve results by uniting our strengths. Everyone will draw the political consequences that they will find useful in relation to European issues. In this case, it is by uniting our forces that we achieve results rather than by dividing ourselves or, worse still, by retreating each and every one of us to our countries. Perhaps Mr Jumel's remarks are very critical of the European Union, but they are also, in a way, defeatist: we could never do anything about it, the lobbies would always triumph. I have heard that electric fishing is the daughter of liberal Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u51	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u52	But whose daughter is its ban by the same European institutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u53	A burst of lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Political will within the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u55	After long tremors and hesitations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u56	It is she we defend, and we will continue to do so! In environmental matters, political will is the only thing. Defeatism, fatalism or, worse, the will to return everyone to our corner...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u57	Nobody says that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u58	[[Same movements]] ... would be terrible in this case: concretely, I don't give much fishing arms in France with Brexit! I was a little surprised by what Mr. Jumel added. Thus, the French Government would never have taken a position, neither Minister Didier Guillaume, nor myself, minister of the sea, nor the Prime Minister. As a Norman Member of Parliament, you should particularly know how much we are committed to maritime matters. As far as fishing is concerned, we have been fighting since the first day for the fishing rights of French armaments in the context of Brexit! From the beginning, we have been extremely vigilant about the fisheries agreement. It's one of our main criteria, it's one of the battles we're leading! Mr Dumont knows this well, with the elected representatives of his department, the Pas-de-Calais, and of his region which now bears a curious name.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u59	It's less worse than the "Great East."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u60	Union is a fact, beyond political divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u61	This is also the case in Normandy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u62	This is also the case in Brittany, as Erwan Balanant knows, as Liliana Tanguy, so important are the stakes, moreover, for all fishermen in France. I will therefore not let it be said that the French Government has never spoken on the issues of the sea and fisheries. I would prefer to see a slight lack of follow-up on our interventions in this area rather than bad faith or intellectual dishonesty, because I do not wish to break the unanimity of this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u63	Get me an official speech on fishing in two years! We'll read it together!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u64	We'll send you all this and you'll see that the battery will be thick enough! You know very well that, at the last inter-ministerial committee on the sea in November, we spoke on all these issues with the Prime Minister and that we led the battle. As Minister of the Sea, although I am not responsible for the fisheries sector, which is the responsibility of Didier Guillaume, I often meet with the National Committee on Maritime Fisheries and Marine Farming, Mr Romiti will be able to confirm this to you, and this has been the case very often in recent months, since my appointment. I welcome Mr Joncour's comments on artisanal fishing. This bill clearly shows that it would be absurd to oppose the protection of marine biodiversity to the protection of fisheries. We need both sustainable protection of fishing activity in our country and, more generally, in Europe, by protecting marine biodiversity. I would like to reply to several speakers, in particular Mr François-Michel Lambert, with regard to the protective measures that are being taken. It is certainly possible to say that the Metz Charter on Biodiversity does not bring anything new, but it is no less an international commitment on the causes of biodiversity loss and on the actions to be taken after the IPBES report. Of course, it is only a general international declaration, but it is the first. There had never been such a clear explanation of the causes of biodiversity loss and the means and levers for action. More concretely, you may know that the measures for bluefin tuna fishing in the Mediterranean have not been taken easily, which several governments have been involved in for about ten years. I was already a Member of Parliament and I remember the battles that took place around this issue. It was very hard, including with some fishermen. Today, these measures have paid off: the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the Mediterranean is effective, giving new fishing quotas, which can be reasonably and significantly increased every year, so as to give fishermen more work. That's the right move! This was also the case for sole in the Gulf of Biscay. I have heard what some speakers have said about stocks on the North and Pas-de-Calais coasts. There is obviously a need to find solutions and to make decisions. This was also the case with the large funds – the rapporteur mentioned this – where, again, unanimity was not at the meeting, that is the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u65	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u66	Today, the measures have been taken, which again makes it possible to achieve results. I do not want the idea of a fatal loss of biodiversity to be established. Finally, this is also the case for the bar in Brittany, where binding measures will produce their effects. Mr. Christophe was concerned about specific measures. It is of course Didier Guillaume who is concerned, but I relay the actions that he undertakes with his ministry for the fileteurs of the Nord and Pas-de-Calais, particularly affected. There has been specific support since 2016, a joint action is being carried out within the framework of a fund between the Nord-Pas-de-Calais-Picardie region, now Hauts-de-France, and the State, which abounded again in 2018. Moreover, as you know, there was a general carry-over of social contributions in 2018 and the activation of partial unemployment. Concertation continues in order to arrive at measures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are the few elements that I wanted to bring, welcoming once again this unanimity around this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u67	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill. On the single article, I am seized by the IUD, Acting and Independent Group of the European Parliament of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u68	As the successive speakers in the general debate have already said, electric fishing, because it is blind and violent, is particularly destructive of ecosystems. We must therefore put an immediate end to it. The European regulation adopted last February is the result of a consensus, in essence imperfect. We would have liked a firm ban without delay, but we must be content with a Community-wide ban on 1 July 2021. However, I am pleased that this European regulation gives Member States the opportunity to anticipate this deadline. It is this ambition that brings us together today around this bill. As we know, several scourges threaten the great balances of fish stocks: global warming of course, and pollution by plastics in particular, on which François-Michel Lambert has largely returned. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] For my part, I intend to stress the consequences of overfishing. If electric fishing concerns the southern part of the North Sea, its drifts affect other seas. You will forgive me for mentioning the Mediterranean, whose shores I know better. Unsustainable fishing practices have greatly reduced fish stocks of some species in the Mediterranean, the most overfished sea in the world. Let us remember the threats of bluefin tuna extinction and remember that the stocks of hake in the Gulf of Lion are declining dangerously. However, the multi-annual management plan in the Western Mediterranean, as adopted in committee in the European Parliament, does not seem to be commensurate with the peril. Sustainable management of resources requires responsibility, close cooperation between fishermen and researchers. This is what the Stella Mare research platform in Bastia, which is dependent on the University of Corsica, aims to do. It is, in my view, a model that I wanted to mention. You will forgive me for this outside of the Mediterranean subject, but I think the question deserves it very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u69	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u70	I have appreciated the comments made by the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who preceded the general discussion, because, like him and many elected representatives on the coast, we consider that French fishermen have already made and supported many efforts during all these years of European construction: drastic reduction in the number of vessels, constant changes in the size of the net meshes, fishing restrictions, even a ban on fishing certain species – I am thinking in particular of the brunette skate which pulls on our coasts – restrictions on the modernisation of vessels in the light of technological advances which make it impossible today to carry out family successions, difficulties in recruiting young fishermen despite very attractive wages. All this is our daily life. Let me have a very special thought for our Breton fishermen, especially those in the country of Saint-Malo, who also live all this on a daily basis and who, despite everything, continue to love their profession, to love the sea and to love its resources. Yes, the Minister of Agriculture was right to say that the question of fishing in British territorial waters after Brexit should not arise. Yes, it is out of the question that our fishermen cannot continue fishing in British territorial waters after Brexit. The French Government will have our full support on this point. I am sure that all the political forces present here will support you. We do not want French fishing to be the adjustment variable for Brexit negotiations, and we want to assert this forcefully. This is all the more so since the subject on which we are debating, electrical fishing, this destructive and cruel fishing, as the rapporteur, Erwan Balanant, has said, continues to be practised by some foreign countries and penalizes our fishermen, as well as other practices on which I have had the opportunity to question the Minister of Agriculture and which consist of scraping the seabed of the spawning grounds of the Rochebonne plateau during the breeding periods. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group supports and will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u71	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u72	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am quite surprised by the aggressiveness and cleavage of the minister's response...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u73	That's not his type!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u74	... when he's not used to it. I have made a consensus intervention to support this bill. This afternoon, the Minister of Agriculture showed a map and recalled his availability to take an order. But it has not escaped me that the Government is considering a partial ban on electric fishing in an area that does not correspond to what the rapporteur foresees. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] For the rest, we know that the fishery in Brittany is 60% in the British zone and that it is useful that fishermen in Dieppe, Tréport and Normandy can continue to fish in the British zone like those in Hauts-de-France. We are simply saying that the liberal Europe that you support – and that you have not always supported – because what characterizes you is your political course that follows the direction of wind like wind turbines – advocates free and undistorted competition and allows English fishermen to fish without complying with the environmental standards, social standards and safety and health standards imposed on French fishermen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u75	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u76	You say no, but I invite you to meet the fishermen of Dieppe who fish the scallop shell. They will explain to you that English fishermen are not equal in terms of the constraints on our fishermen in terms of timing, quotas, health conditions and social regulation. Yes to common rules that allow the French and the English to fish in good intelligence, yes so that the fishery is above the pile of records. That is what Stéphane Travert and the minister responsible for fisheries defended in their actions and speeches. As for your aggression, which is a form of contempt for Parliament, it is beginning to do well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u77	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u78	I welcome the consensual climate that prevails here tonight for such a beautiful cause. With this amendment, we propose that you go further, as we had already explained in the bill that our group had tabled, and of which Jean-Luc Mélenchon was the first signatory. The aim is to anticipate any technical developments and strictly prohibit any future method – and not just trawl fishing – using electric current, including scientific current. We also propose to extend this ban to all waters under French sovereignty or jurisdiction, 200 miles instead of 12 miles, in the perspective of new techniques combining impulse electric currents being developed and used in the shoals. We also propose to extend this ban to all vessels flying the French flag on the high seas – an international maritime area – as this method violates the conservation objectives of resources and the French commitments on the international scene. The provision we are proposing would make it possible to strike definitively strong and completely against the prohibition of electric fishing in France and on the coast, and more broadly on the 200-mile strip.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u80	I understand your concerns, which I believe are shared unanimously on the substance. However, there are some problems with this amendment. If the proposed law is to be effective quickly and to fit perfectly into the European regulation, it must comply with its expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u81	We cannot do much under this regulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u82	If, with this bill, we do a lot, as the fishermen have told us. You want to go further by anticipating the methods to come. But to legislate on future methods seems a little complicated to me. This is done very little, under the precautionary principle. We will all be vigilant on this issue, as well as the new Members of the European Parliament. You also wish to prohibit electric fishing in all places for vessels flying the French flag. However, you are well aware that no French vessel and no French shipowner are engaged in electric fishing, as the equipment of an electric fishing vessel is very expensive. I do not see what would be the interest of a French shipowner to equip his boat for a transitional period of two years, especially since he will not be able to fish within 12 nautical miles. I point out in passing that many have spoken of territorial waters when it is actually the French territorial sea, the 12 nautical miles, just the thin strip. But that's where there's fish and we can practice electric fishing because we have to go to the seabed. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'm against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u84	Same opinion as the rapporteur. You want to anticipate future methods, which is irrelevant. Scientific research has nothing to do with electric trawl fishing as it is still practised by Dutch vessels. The Agence française pour la biodiversité uses electric techniques to measure the state of a particular species in a river, and it may be required to do so also in estuary or by the sea. We are well in a scientific field that is extremely framed. A legislative provision such as the one you are proposing should not prevent these measures. That is why I invite you to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u85	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u86	I would point out that we are only talking about fishing. I am taking on an amendment which would concern scientific measures unrelated to electrical fishing. If I understand your point, Mr rapporteur, you do not have a problem with our amendment, but it is not necessary because it anticipates things that do not exist today. In terms of predation on natural resources, the past convinces me that sometimes it is better to anticipate "progress" – in fact it would be the opposite of progress. I am much less optimistic than you about the idea that it would take light years for deep-sea trawl systems not to use this kind of process. I do not see why we cannot legislate for the future on this issue and thus close the debate. I therefore maintain this amendment, hoping that this House will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u87	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u88	The question is also that of the text in relation to the European regulation. Tomorrow we will have new Members of the European Parliament who will have to be extremely vigilant in this area. Fisheries must continue to be managed at European level. It is the responsibility of the European institutions, which must retain this competence, otherwise we are running for disaster, as the Minister has pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u89	I put the single article to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u90	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 54 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 54 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1224.u91	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Discussion of the draft law for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and instituting a national subscription. The meeting is adjourned.
