ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u1	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon's motion for a resolution to put the general interest at the heart of the public service (No.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u3	Madam President, I note that the speaker of the Group of the European People's Party, who tabled the motion for a resolution, is not present in the Chamber. I therefore request a five-minute suspension of the sitting. If it has not yet reached the end of this deadline, I will be forced to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u4	Mr. Minister's right! It's a matter of principle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u5	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u6	The meeting was resumed. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u7	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my delay and for accepting my thanks for the suspension of the sitting, which allows me to open the general debate, even if it is short of breath. The public service is one of the nation's most valuable assets. The public service in France is also one in five jobs. The civil service and its values have emerged from major social and republican struggles. These rallies made it possible to make the public service the cement of the general interest. However, since the 1990s, a neoliberal bottom blade has threatened it. The ultraliberal estocades were notably carried out during the quinquennium 2007-2012, with the general revision of public policies – RGPP – and then, despite the so-called political alternation, from 2012 to 2017 with the modernization of public action – MAP. By setting up, in an opaque manner, the Public Action Committee 2022 – CAP 2022 – the President of the Republic also undertakes to chop up the civil service. Yet, there is no clear record of the results of our state's break-up policies; No exams, no questions. The state's adversaries advance in the fog, ministry by ministry. They have completely cut themselves off from the sociological, economic and demographic reality of our country. Those who are commonly called technocrats forget that our French Republic rests on these pillars, too often forgotten as they are part of our daily lives. Because the public service is our schools. These are our hospitals. These are our postal services. It's our public transport. If our public services stand up, it is also because they are carried at arm's length by dedicated citizens, fully committed to the common good. Sometimes, in the face of "austeral" axes, these citizens raise their heads. They're resisting. They resist the air of time. They resist the race for privatization and the degradation of our public services. They resist, and you and your world, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, sometimes treat them as quasi-criminals. To me, they're ordinary heroes. Gaël Quirante is a trade unionist from La Poste. His management makes us believe that the mail is dead, and that the postal workers are destined to disappear. Yet he and the other postal officers see that the number of small parcels is exploding, and that their health is deteriorating, because the tours are growing longer and the orders are becoming absurd. So, one day, he goes on strike. After more than a year of strike, after his union had won the majority in the professional elections thanks to his combativity, he was placed in custody yesterday, on the sole ground that he occupied for a moment the seat of La Poste. He came out free this morning, but he was treated, for 32 hours, like a criminal. Eric Bezou is a railwayman, a trade unionist, too. His company, the SNCF, was once a flagship of the public sector, but it is subjected every day to the hammer blows of privatization and competition that you voted for. Yet the train is an ecological means of transport, a means of transport of the future! Éric clearly sees that the management is based on that of the private sector, sometimes worse, always more brutal, as that of Orange was after the privatisation of France Télécom. So, one day, he kneels in front of his leadership, symbolically, like a high school student from Mantes-la-Jolie. He's being blamed for anxiogenic behavior. He replied that SNCF was in the midst of a wave of suicides. One year earlier, one of his colleagues, stationed at Saint-Lazare station, also a trade unionist, committed suicide by throwing himself on the rails. More and more of them are now doing so – and so a CFDT trade unionist, recently in Saint-Denis, in my constituency – still in their workplace, which is a good indication of the scope of their action. Eric Bezou is threatened with dismissal, like an offender. This infernal scenario is repeated every day before our eyes. In emergency services, whose current struggle reveals how unbearable the situation has become, or in schools, the brutalization of our civil servants and former public services is growing endlessly. Despite the lack of transparency in austerity plans, we note that, with the general revision of public policies, 150,000 posts have been abolished in the state civil service in five years, representing a 5.4% decrease in the number of staff, in order to achieve savings of almost EUR 12 billion on the back of public officials. As for François Hollande, he certainly changed his plans after the attacks of January 2015, but the MAP did foresee the abolition of 33,500 posts – reduced to about 5000, even though no official figures were reported on this point. These policies of disengagement from the state may have been camouflaged by an apparent stability of the public service: the total number of public servants seems to have increased between 2007 and 2017, with an additional 2,860,000 posts, but taking into account the increase in the French population, the proportion has actually decreased. This meant that 50,000 staff posts were missing at the end of the same period. Emmanuel Macron has been part of this destructive lineage since 2015. As Minister of Economy, he was already firing the machine gun, announcing that he wanted to reduce the number of staff and question the status of civil servants. As a candidate in the presidential election, he undertook to shoot in the bazooka by announcing that he wanted to abolish 120,000 posts of public officials during the quinquennium, some in the territory, and others in the state civil service. As president, he opaquely launched the Public Action Committee 2022, composed of personalities of public and private oligarchy, deafening the demands of the unions. The social partners are now despised; They were left out throughout the process of passing the so-called Public Service Transformation Bill. The way in which the Government is carrying out this reform is very dishonesty. It also reveals the authoritarian tone of the quinquennium. Since the beginning of the Macron era, the financial laws that we vote poison the public service. Since the end of 2017, I have had a net decrease of 5824 jobs corresponding to cuts in public service missions as fundamental as ecology – 2402 full-time equivalents less –, work – 2204 FTEs less –, national education – 1826 FTEs –, solidarity and health – 1032 FTEs – and the economy and public finances – 4291 FTEs. In addition to this dishonesty, there is a lack of respect for budgetary and democratic principles. Parliament passed a law on the financing of specific employment ceilings per mission, which were subsequently not implemented by the Government. I am speaking to my parliamentary colleagues, regardless of their convictions: are you going to tolerate longer than the Government does not comply with the commitments voted by the national representative? These figures show the invincible nature of the voted budget, but above all reveal the Government's strategy. The budgetary implementation of the employment ceilings shows that the objectives are not achieved. This speaks volumes about the ambivalence of the Government in this area: it communicates in the finance law on an ambition of recruitment that it does not actually implement. Civil servants are only a variable of budgetary adjustment, we can afford to save money on their backs while closing our eyes to the precariousness imposed on them, and ultimately to the resulting deterioration in the quality of public services. It is time for the Government to be held accountable. The French cannot be content with the liberal and provocative announcements of the Minister of Action and Public Accounts promoting the "generalization of the contract" in the public service. The statute of the civil service is the ordinary law; the contract, a derogation scheme. However, the contracting process is very real: between 2007 and 2017, the number of contractors increased by 23 per cent while the number of civil servants decreased by 0.5 per cent. There is now one contractor for five civil servants, compared to only one in six in 2007. The current reform of the civil service continues and amplifies this movement, extending the possibility of recourse to contract workers in its two most dangerous forms. On the one hand, the most fragile sectors of public employment are pre-catalysed by fixed-term contracts, affecting more territorial and hospital public functions. In the territorial area, 65% of contract workers are in CSDs; Only the state civil service recruits more CDI than CSD. In the territorial and hospital public service, 73 per cent and 85 per cent of CDD staff have contracts of less than one year, respectively. In addition, more than three quarters of territorial agents belong to category C, compared with only one fifth at the state level. On the other hand, with the reform desired by the Government, the use of contracting for posts corresponding to the highest responsibilities will pave the way for copying, negotiated wages, and conflicts of interest and slippers allowed by permanent visits and returns between the public and private sectors. We are therefore witnessing an end to the status of civil servant and a squashing of the rights and guarantees enjoyed by public officials. We are moving towards more competition, and thereby towards the individualisation and privatisation of public services. Anyway, we're getting into the wall. With this motion for a resolution, we call for a real assessment of all these attacks on the civil service. It is time to properly assess, department by department, the results of similar policies on job losses, comparing them with the natural evolution of the French population and the needs for public services, which the ecological and climate issue makes higher and more crucial than ever. First, every woman and man working for the general interest has the right to know what he or she has lost as a result of these reforms in relation to what he or she could expect to receive. We therefore call for the calculation of the savings that the freezing of the index point has allowed since 2010. According to our own estimates, from 2008 to 2018, the savings on the backs of civil servants would exceed 100 billion euros, or about 2000 euros per agent per year – which, by the way, is also not good for popular consumption. There is an urgent need to revalue the remuneration of public officials and public officials who, in addition to the consequences of the freeze on the index point, have not received an exceptional premium this year, apart from part of the Directorate-General for Public Finance and the Police – it is clear that we are far from the point of view. Second, users and users obviously have the right to understand why their public services are less and less present in the territory, why they are dysfunctional, why they themselves are waiting longer and longer, why tax centres are closing. For if public services are affected, if their accessibility, which is paramount, is compromised, it is the liberal policies of the Government that are responsible, not the civil servants. If we, as representatives of the nation, find it so difficult to obtain the necessary information on the policies pursued by the different governments, what about the citizens, to whom we owe transparency? Nor can we remove from a pen the status of civil servant, the result of a revolutionary and social conquest in the face of the capture of public property by the monarch and private interests. This status has been defended since 1789 and article 6 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, which enshrines in the marble the equal access to public jobs – "All citizens being equal in his eyes are also eligible for all dignity, places and public jobs, according to their capacity, and without distinction other than that of their virtues and talents" – until the so-called laws Le Pors of the 1980s. Its particularity is justified by the loyalty owed by the officials to the Republic and to the people, but also by the protection which they themselves must receive in the face of the arbitrariness of the governments. The principle of equal access is enshrined in the existence of competitions, which are more impartial than the discretionary choice of contract. The principle of independence gives the official ownership of his rank, not of his employment, which protects him from political pressure and administrative arbitrariness while guaranteeing his neutrality vis-à-vis users and users. It is therefore not just a right: it is a principle. The principle of responsibility is at the foundation of the civil servant-citizen, endowed with all the attributes of French citizenship, who opposes the civil servant-subject. This status is the result of republican and social struggles. It is an achievement of the National Council of Resistance that protects not only the civil servants, but also, well beyond them, the Republic, of which they are the most valuable tool. Unlike the employee bound to his employer by contract, the official is at the service of the general interest. To challenge this specificity would bind the public official to particular interests. To replace the logic of the function with that of employment or occupation is to replace the logic of the general interest with that of the market. The current logic of individualization and performance is moving away from the collective dimension inherent in the public service, as we see every day. If we want to strengthen the public service, it is for these reasons, and given the importance of the work done by public service officers, who, through their competence, their commitment, their dedication, simply keep our society on a daily basis. It is therefore crucial to hire up to the needs and, because the State must be exemplary, to titularize all the precarious members of the public service. Can the Government say that the decline in the quality of public services is due to the disengagement of the State? Such a policy would counter the bad results of the Sauvadet law of 12 March 2012, far from its objective – "deprecating", by tenures and conversions to CDI. The working conditions of civil servants are far from what some call privileges. For example, 46 per cent of staff work on weekends, more than 36 per cent between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m., and 25 per cent – almost double in the hospital civil service – are exposed to at least three rhythmary constraints. The ongoing reforms have only deteriorated public services, in particular by helping to widen territorial inequalities through the creation of genuine deserts of public services, while it is towards the restoration of equality that we should move towards, and ensure a satisfactory level of functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u8	Can you conclude, Mr. Coquerel?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u9	I'll make it up to you. By encouraging public officials to go to the private sector, the draft law on the civil service suggests restructuring and lay-off plans. We encourage the Government and its majority not to continue to follow this liberal glamour, but to take stock of past policies, to analyse their consequences, to listen and, above all, to take into account the views of the actors of society, trade unions and users. With this motion for a resolution, we call for a moratorium on the dismantling of public services, on the time to present an assessment of the reality of the savings made, on the development of the quality of services provided to citizens, on the state of precariousness of public officials and on the management of conflicts of interest in the public sphere. It is unbearable, in fact, to continue to undertake destructive reforms of the public service which throw into precariousness both public servants and users of the public service. Thank you again for waiting for me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u10	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u11	We are discussing this evening, at the initiative of our colleagues in La France, an absolutely fundamental subject: the general interest, which is supposed to guide the action of our civil servants on a daily basis. The motion for a resolution before us has its full meaning in the present period: never in recent years has political formation seemed to be so anxious to reduce the general interest to a minimum, if not non-existent, expression. The majority on the move is that of particular interests, of a privatized world,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u12	Oh! Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u13	...totally down from what constitutes the heart of republican morality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u14	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u15	In all the bills we are looking at, we see the place of the public interest being drastically reduced to the benefit of market logic. The latest example is the Public Service Transformation Bill, which, like no other, enshrines the dream of neoliberals on all sides by its attack on the status of the public servant, which is itself inseparable from the exercise of the public interest. The consideration of the general interest is very old in our history. More than two centuries ago, a Geneva philosopher forever marked consciences by proclaiming that the general interest does not result from the sum of particular interests: on the contrary, the existence and manifestation of particular interests can only harm the general interest which, exceeding each individual, is in a way the emanation of the will of the community of citizens as such. This conception, expressed by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in Du contrat sociale and determinant at the time of the French Revolution, is now found in a large part of our legal history. The notion of public interest is therefore central to our republican history and therefore inseparable from the construction of our public service. Construction, because the idea of a civil servant's statute was not imposed from the outset. At the end of the 19th century, civil servants were governed by disparate rules. Until the Second World War, the main purpose of the draft statutes was to translate the hierarchical principle of obedience of civil servants into strict rules. Then important rights were conquered over time. Through Maurice Thorez, first of all, who, in 1946, laid down the main principles which are reflected in the current statute of the civil service, whether it be the distinction between rank and employment or the management of staff within joint bodies in which civil servants participate. The promulgation of the 1946 statute proved to be fundamental, since, in the words of Maurice Thorez himself, this statute allowed the civil servant to become a citizen and not "an impersonal working of the administrative machine". Then, progress came through the decisive action taken by Anicet Le Pors, communist minister in charge of the civil service from 1981 to 1984, now considered the father of the civil servant's status. His contribution was considerable, both in the quality of his work and in the relevance of his vision. These new advances were based on the republican principles of the French conception of the public service. The first is the principle of equality, with reference to article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789, which provides for access to public employment on the basis of the assessment of "virtuals" and "talents", i.e. the ability of candidates. The rule was that it was through the competition that we entered the public service. The spirit of the competition must remain present throughout the career and be implemented in a manner that is appropriate throughout the career. The second principle is the independence of the official from both political and administrative arbitrariness. This independence is guaranteed by the so-called career system in which the rank, owned by the official, is separated from the employment which is at the disposal of the administration. This distinction is absolutely fundamental in that it allows the public service official to conduct his activity in the public interest. To question this specificity would bind the public agent to particular interests, thus to the interests of the market. Finally, the principle of responsibility gives the official full rights of citizens. According to this principle, each public official must therefore be held accountable for his or her administration. With extensive public property and tax-funded, our public service protects its activities from commercialization. In the service of the general interest, it contributes to the formation of citizenship, by affirming the principle of equality within it, as well as at the service of the population, by the requirement of responsibility at all levels. This is an essential component of the Republican pact. It is also the mark of a civilization that we can be proud of. But, despite this rich history, this majority has not hesitated to tackle the status, according to Ronald Reagan's maxim: "the state is not the solution to our problem; the state is the problem." In the draft law on the transformation of the civil service, every effort is made to annihilate the status without fully affecting it: massive recourse to contractual agents, including permanent or managerial posts, voluntary departure plans, ex officio secondment; the establishment of a project contract which is of such a precarious nature, which seems to misunderstand the first job contract; attack on social democracy with the merger of health, safety and working conditions committees – CHSCT – and technical committees – CT –, along the lines of work orders; attack on the joint bodies with the drastic reduction of the role of the Joint Administrative Commissions. Let us say it forcefully: this bill seeks nothing but the privatization of the state. It represents the triumph of market ideology over republican morality. He's liquidating our social legacy. Once adopted, this text will have disastrous consequences because, more than ever, we need to consolidate our statutory civil service, which will have a major role to play in solving the evils of the twenty-first century. Social emergency and environmental emergency require public authorities to take into account what is in the common interest. The era called for more public services and more democracy, in order to strengthen the link between citizens and public action. This is also what the French expect, everywhere in the territory. Without this philosophy, our public service would have sank. Struggled by the reduction of resources and cuts in the workforce, our public services rely solely on the dedication of our agents everywhere – in our hospitals, in our schools, in the police, as the news shows. They resist because our republican morality gives primacy to the general interest and affirms the principle of equality and the ethics of responsible citizenship. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] That is what we Communist Members are defending, not as a social achievement, but as an indispensable horizon for the success of our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u16	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u17	The deputies of the La France insoumée group wished the National Assembly to question the Government on the subject of the civil service, in particular on the relevance of the reforms envisaged in order to modernize it. I understand that, in their view, reform and modernisation would mean weakening the state and dismantling the public service. As a rapporteur of the Public Service Transformation Bill, I am pleased to be able to reassure them on these points. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we share the same commitment to the public service. I am a civil servant myself, and I fully know what we owe him. We also agree on the importance of the public service: it is the guarantor of the general interest, the administrator of the common good, in the service of the citizens. It guarantees the relevance of State action and continuity. But the civil service is also a bulwark in the face of the risk that, for example, the unfortunate arrival in power of an authoritarian or populist party, of one extreme or the other. And it is precisely because the majority I belong to and the current government are particularly committed to the public interest that we have seriously undertaken to transform the public service. Because it is not a matter of declaring his love for the public service, it must be demonstrated. This requires not only enabling the public service to meet the expectations and changing needs of users, but also helping public officials to carry out their tasks and adapt to the changing environment. This is the whole purpose of our commitment. We are well aware that meeting this challenge requires serious and responsible action. We do not consider, for example, that the quality of public service is limited to the number of its agents, nor that the only answer to its ills is simply to increase its number. Respect for the general interest is also good public management. It is not to lie to the French or to the taxpayers by flouting the rules of fiscal stability or, even worse, by selling magic formulas that make it seem, for example, that it is enough, with one finger slamming, to put an end to the tax evasion in order to be able to increase the spending of the state. If only it was so simple to abolish dishonesty, whether it is intellectual or fiscal... So, rest assured, our ambition is not to dismantle public services but, on the contrary, to save them from decline and secure their future. Because the real threat to the public service is immobility, and the policy of bandaging. Very concretely, we have several objectives: to improve the quality of public services; empower public officials to better carry out their tasks; control, yes, control the expenditure of public services by optimising the means. For us, as for many French people who are concerned about the proper use of public spending, efficiency is not a big word. Since I know that you have been following the discussion of this bill diligently, I will not confront you with re-reading it. However, let me highlight a few important points which, curiously, do not appear in your motion for a resolution and which, however, should be such as to answer your questions. First of all, with regard to the method, no, the unions were not despised. They have been involved in the debate since the first hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u18	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u19	It is even one of the ambitions of the law to achieve a more effective social dialogue. With regard to access to public services, several ministries have seen their funding increase to meet changing needs. This is particularly the case for national education, with a budget increasing by 850 million euros in 2019; justice, with a 25% increase on the quinquennium; and security, with an increase of 11.9 per cent. You cannot say that the Government is disengaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u20	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u21	As far as public officials are concerned, I should like to point out that this majority, as well as the President of the Republic, does not make the number of public servants an end in itself. The challenge is to define the most efficient way to meet needs. The civil service is not for civil servants but for them, to the attention of the users. It is because human resources are the foundation of the quality of public service that we want to provide the public service with new guarantees and greater flexibility. I am surprised that you have not noted the major social advances made by this text, particularly in favour of professional equality, the right to training and the fight against precariousness, with the introduction of the end-of-contract allowance. Contrary to what you say, the use of contract workers is not intended to increase "coping". There's enough of that expression!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u22	Oh, that's annoying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u23	The aim is to expand the pool of candidates and skills, and to respond to situations of tension. I am afraid that a vision as caricatured as yours bears witness to a little experience of what the public service and the management of public services really are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u24	It is your vision that is caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u25	You assume that reforming the public service weakens the state. We believe that this is the future and the effectiveness of its action. You are dreaming of a France whose State would be the only and only employer. We want a France where the public service serves the interests of the French first. The only real proposition you have is to increase public debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u26	Thank you for concluding...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u27	Yes, Madam President. We are choosing an ambitious and responsible reform, as well as serious budgetary reform. No, ladies and gentlemen, you do not have a monopoly on the general interest. The absence of your proposals to meet the expectations of users and to support public servants even seems to be the opposite. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For these obvious reasons, we will not support your motion for a resolution, but will continue to work in sincerity and responsibility to put the general interest at the heart of the public service in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u28	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u29	This evening we meet around this motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party. I fully agree with the ambition of his title – let the general interest prevail, we ask only that! – and even if I am not necessarily in line with its orientation, this text clearly has the merit of putting forward a problem that we know only too well on the ground, that of territorial inequalities and the famous deserts of public services. Motherhoods that close for lack of health workers, schools that fail to keep their teachers, gendarmerie and police stations that empty themselves or undergo incessant turnovers: these situations are the result of a bad public policy which, in too much desire to harmonize wage policy, pours into egalitarianism. Last week, again, the Minister of National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, recognized on RTL the difficult living conditions of teachers who fail to live their wages in certain geographical areas, citing Annecy and Paris. This is a good thing: to solve this problem, a solution has already existed for decades. I would therefore like to take advantage of our debate to recall the existence of the civil servants' living allowance, or expensive living allowance, which is paid in certain areas of the territory where the cost of living is particularly high, such as Île-de-France or Toulon. This premium amounts to 3% of gross salary, but has not been updated for a very long time. As for the ranking, it has not been reviewed since March 2001. Mr Secretary of State, you are aware that the cost of living is particularly high in Haute-Savoie or in the country of Gex. Because of their proximity to Switzerland, these territories are among the most expensive in France. The cost of land and housing is very high, particularly in the Annecian region, in Geneva, in a border area or in a station. As for the cost of living, it is as high as in Paris, because of the proximity to Switzerland. As a result, while our dynamic department receives an average of 10,000 more inhabitants a year, our administrations are directly penalized and suffer from a large turnover of their staff, or even a shortage, which pose serious difficulties. Some civil servants, noting the high cost of living or land, even prefer to refuse their transfer before they even settle. The vacancy rate is also high in the three sides of the civil service, notably within the departmental Directorate of Border Police, the departmental Directorate of Public Finance, and the Annemasse police station, which is classified as a priority security zone. This is also the case for the hospital public service: the territory suffers from a shortage of health care personnel, to the point that we have had to close beds in some residential institutions for dependent seniors – EHPAD. This poses many problems with regard to the efficiency of the public service, and penalizes the general interest. Even if his share of remuneration was relatively low, the cost of living premium would have the merit of stabilizing and retaining public servants. This mechanism is necessary and highly expected in the field. Secretary of State, this is not a new subject, Martial Saddier and I have mentioned it repeatedly in Bercy with you and with your appropriate minister, Gérald Darmanin. The situation on the ground is not changing and, in the meantime, it is the users who are experiencing this problem. They do not require more staff, but a constant number, without recruitment difficulties, as is the case in less cost-of-living departments. More generally, the Republicans' position is constant: let us stop believing that a good public service is a public service that is expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u30	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u31	Let us stop believing that the quality of a public service is measured by the number of public servants. Otherwise we'd probably be world champions! We propose not to sacrifice public services, but to rationalise them, to save on certain public expenditure, in particular by committing to real administrative simplification and eliminating duplication. We expect this reform of the public service. It must also include a reflection on the 35-hour sacred cow. France is the OECD country with the lowest amount of work per capita, mainly due to 35 hours. Our proposal is simple: to give more flexibility, especially through overtime – all employees who work more will earn more. In the public sphere, this measure will produce a lighter state, with the exception of the Regalian domain, which needs to be strengthened, and health, which needs to be sanctified. Half of these savings will be used for salary and merit awards. Without a serious reduction in public spending, without a reduction in the cost of operating the state, it is clear that tax cuts cannot be sustainable. So far, the Government, rather than tackling the reform of the State and the reduction in public spending, is clinging to successive DIY to try vainly to maintain control of events and not to further widen the public deficit. Rather than reducing public spending, it seeks to increase conflicting statements, particularly about the objectives of reducing the number of public servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u32	Please close, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u33	Yes, Madam President. Our proposals are ready, turnkey, and we will always be at the forefront of common-sense reforms. Mr Secretary of State, I hope that your policy on state reform will be inflexible before the end of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u34	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u35	Putting the public interest at the heart of the public service: this is the title of your motion for a resolution. I must admit that I was quite surprised by this choice, which would suggest that it is necessary to restore the sense of public interest among public servants. It seems that you doubted that the thousands of agents in our country are concerned about the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u36	You understand that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u37	Elected local, and now a Member of Parliament, I have come across many civil servants in my chosen career as well as in my life as a citizen. I have never met anyone who did not place the general interest at the heart of his mission, to serve others and a certain idea of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u38	We don't contest it at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u39	I am the son of a public servant, and I say to you: there is no need to put the public interest back at the heart of the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u40	Did you read the resolution?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u41	Of course, problems exist and we deal with them, but your idea seems to me... particular. Moreover, after reading the title, I expected a definition of the general interest, interesting ideas – I know you are capable of it. But in fact, this motion for a resolution is in line with your systematic opposition to any reform of the public service. You are therefore proposing a resolution to withdraw the draft law on the transformation of the civil service and to ask the Government to define quantified objectives, mission by mission, to reduce the number of civil servants. When reading your statement of reasons, written with your usual sense of measure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u42	You can talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u43	...we would therefore be the fosseurs of the French model of public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u45	The French know that we are very far from this idea. At this point in my speech, I would like to have a thought – and I am sure you will join – about the magistrate who was attacked this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u46	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u47	Let us examine in detail the encouragement you give us – it is quite rare for you to encourage us, so let us greet him. You encourage the Government "to better examine, by mission and by category, the circumstances and conditions for reducing the number of civil servants", and "to specify, on a mission-by-mission basis, its objectives in terms of the number of civil servants and to sanctify missions in which a policy of reducing the number of civil servants cannot be carried out". Based on a strictly accounting view of public employment, these suggestions ignore the importance of the public service that underpins any reform of the public service. Our majority is not trying to set quantified targets for reducing the number of public officials, but, on the contrary, to carry out reforms, public policies aimed at greater efficiency and better results – and I know that you do not like the words "efficiency" and "results". Our ambition is not to achieve quantified objectives, as your cartoon would like to make it seem, it is to do better and to respond more satisfactorily to the needs of citizens and territories. This is what the reform advocated by Olivier Dussopt, which we have just adopted, is doing. Take the example of the housing tax: if it is removed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u48	The removal is pushed back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u49	... it will no longer be necessary to have 3000 agents to collect and manage it. These posts will then be redeployed or, for some, abolished. You also invite the Government "to make an exhaustive list of the closures of public services and missions that are no longer carried out by the public authorities", and other variations. In short, most of your proposals focus on considerations that are intended to be addressed by fact-finding missions or budget reports. Parliamentarians should be allowed to exercise the role of monitoring and evaluating public policies entrusted to them by article 24 of the Constitution. In fact, under the cover of this resolution, you would like once again to repeat the match between our parliamentary debates and the decisions taken by the national representation. The debates on the draft law on the transformation of the public service have shown this: by promoting a more strategic social dialogue in accordance with the guarantees given to public officials, this text proposes to strengthen the governance of the social dialogue as well as to develop an integrated vision of policies related to working conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u50	By making contract officers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u51	Moreover, by developing managerial levers for more responsive and effective public action – I know that the word "managerial" shockes you, but it's not a big word, Mr.Coquerel –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u52	In the public service, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u53	...and by strengthening mobility and professional equality, this bill structures a new public service, adapted to the challenges of the 21st century,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u54	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u55	... more accessible and offering better conditions of exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u56	All this is just words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u57	As much as you, perhaps more than you, because we do not remain locked in dogmas, we wish a strong public service adapted to its missions. Reforms are now needed to adapt the public service to the new challenges that are transforming our country. The President of the Republic and the Prime Minister recalled that priority would be given to the redeployment of public officials to the territories, in particular for the creation of France services houses, before any removal of dry posts. In conclusion, the last paragraph of your resolution calls on us to declare a moratorium and to stop the reforms. In short, you ask us not to change anything and therefore want to embody conservatism. It is quite surprising, at a time when the French are asking us to reform, with respect for this public service that is our pride.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u58	The French are asking for public services!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u59	The MODEM Group will not support this motion for a resolution, which actually asks us to stay still.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u60	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u61	A few weeks ago, on 28 May, the Government had the bill for the transformation of the civil service passed after the accelerated procedure had begun. During the review of the text, the Government and the majority of the parties agreed to reduce it to its technical dimension and to avoid the fundamental questions it posed. The motion for a resolution by our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party is therefore appropriate, in order to try to avoid a painful and heavy breakdown of the consequences for the functioning of our public service. As the speakers of the Socialist and Related Group recalled on this occasion, the civil service is the fruit of a long history, made of cleverly constructed compromises. It was forged by great laws, which are republican cathedrals – one can think of those of 1946, 1983 and 1984. The status and law of the public service have something to do with individual emancipation, with political progress, with the general interest, with public freedoms, with a very French conception of public service. It is the raison d'être of the statute and the principles that underpin it. Far from being the privilege of civil servants, this status is first and foremost the condition for a republican exercise of public action and the guarantee of respect for the general interest. It is always useful to recall the principles of the public service. The first of these is equality. Entry into the public service is through the competition, which guarantees equal access to public employment and selection through competence. The competition makes it possible to reconcile the selection of the most suitable and the democratization of the civil service. It is the best bulwark against favouritism and clientelism. The second principle is independence. Civil servants must be protected from economic and political arbitrariness. The French public service is thus based on the so-called career system, in which the rank is distinct from employment. The third principle is citizenship. Civil servants are citizens who have the same rights and duties as other citizens – freedom of opinion, trade union rights and the right to strike – that are in line with the obligations of the public service in terms of neutrality, ethics, discretion or public information. With this reform, which is not just an addition of technical provisions, simplification or coordination measures, we are witnessing a break with the long history of the civil service. While the Government does not abrogate the statute by opening up the possibility of using the contract to a large extent, the majority chooses to banish the civil service and the exercise of the State, and ultimately to weaken public action. The contract is presented as a model of modernity and central to the effectiveness of public action, where the risk of its corruption should be pointed out. The status is not primarily protective of agents, it is, above all, protective of the republican order and of the general interest. With the contract, the Government made the short-term choice, while the climate emergency, for example, requires continuity of public action and calls for a review of the long-term nature of projects. With the contract, competing in the competition, the Government took the risk of arbitrariness, breach of equality and clientelism in recruitment. With the opening to the contract of the vast majority of management jobs in the three sides of the public service, there is a great risk of confusion between public and private interests, thanks to slippery or retro-pantouflage, and a weakening of the prospects for the professional development of civil servants. With the contract and its avatars, with the possibility of resorting to conventional breaches or of moving certain civil servants into the private sector on an ex officio basis in the event of outsourcing, the Government has paved the way for narrowing public action, where the issue of its extension arises in an unprecedented way. Finally, the recent bill has weakened social dialogue in the public service as never before by merging certain jurisdictions, even though, for example, occupational health is a key issue. For all these reasons, the motion for a resolution by our colleagues deserves the utmost attention. As they point out, our public services stand only thanks to the dedication of the many agents committed to the common good. After more than ten years of RGPP and MAP, to which the opaque work of CAP 2022 has succeeded, it seems urgent to move towards a moratorium preventing the dismantling of new public services. Indeed, the reforms that have gone on have only worsened public services, contributing in particular to the strengthening of territorial inequalities. The lines suggested in the motion for a resolution are all relevant. How can we challenge, for example, the imperative need to analyse the concrete consequences on the lives of our fellow citizens of these long years of weakening public services? How can we not see the savings unduly made on the backs of public officials by years of freezing the index point? The unions are not mistaken. The nine public service organizations had unanimously rejected the bill. They unanimously called for a day of action on May 9. Yet another, more respectful approach would be possible. It would be possible to restore meaning to the status of civil servant from the point of view of qualitative career support. This would allow us to review the course of competitions and initial training in order to better open up the public service to today's society, to strengthen the role of continuing training – as civil servants trained throughout their lives bring flexibility to the management of human resources –, to reflect on the introduction of an "Erasmus of Public Functions" and to bring the organisation of the bodies of the three public functions closer together, for real inter-versal mobility. This vision was supported by the Socialist and Related Group of Members of Parliament during the consideration of the bill. These are always the paths we recommend to explore. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] Our co-authors, co-authors and signatories of the motion for a resolution are right to address this issue shortly after our business, as the Senate has just seized the text. It is still time to avoid the most questionable drifts. In any event, the Socialist and Allied Group will support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u62	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u63	The civil service, between state, hospital and territorial civil service, employs nearly 5 and a half million people, i.e. one in five jobs. The French are very attached to their public services and agents. At the same time, the public service has suffered many criticisms for years. From the very inside, there are many complaints about the lack of resources, the lack of pay, the lack of social recognition, as well as the time and the accompaniment granted to each user. I will cite only one example: that of the care workers working in EHPADs and in the care structures in general. They perform a particularly difficult activity, both physically and morally, for a remuneration that is clearly not up to the level: 1300 euros net on average. However, they often manage to organize themselves, to manage themselves, to do more often with less. The motion for a resolution has the merit of bringing this difficulty to light. Against this, reform projects follow and often resemble each other. The action plans are multiplying: after the RGPP and MAP, the Government launched the Public Action Committee 2022. However, evil persists and, for the time being, no one seems to have found the solution. Because, in the face of difficulties that are anchored, approaches are too dogmatic. The most common approach, which is based on the number of staff to draw conclusions in one direction or another, is clearly not satisfactory. There are other criteria that must be used to find the meaning of the public service. The public service is often studied from the perspective of the mass, of the ideal number of agents that would be required to maintain or recover efficient public services. Some call for a drastic reduction in public employment when others would instead like to keep it at a high level, even increasing it in proportion to the population level. This accounting logic is not conclusive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u64	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u65	Rather, it is appropriate to reconnect public services with the territories and their inhabitants, based on a broad organizational audit conducted in two directions. The first will make it possible to evaluate the effectiveness of services, in order to eliminate those which are duplicated or useless; the second will propose a plan to reorganise their workforce, in order to optimise and radically change their functioning. Some services are chronically understaffed, while others are far too expanded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u66	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u67	In the face of changes in the country, its sociology and the balance of settlement within the territories, these new situations must be approached flexibly without losing sight of the fact that everyone must have access to public services. This can be done by listening – finally – to areas that far too often pass under radars, especially in rural areas. The problem of the public service is not so much that of the number of public servants as of the efficiency of services. The digitization of society, an important factor to be taken into account, offers new opportunities. It should be remembered, however, that it is a complement to physical reception, which cannot be replaced. Attention therefore to the system of service houses to the public, seductive on paper, but which must allow real contact with the citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u68	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u69	However, I do not believe that the state administration is inclined to be very present on the ground, within these public service houses. There is also a need for a change of mindset, for example, to eliminate certain practices, certain advantages of senior officials, which are no longer needed today. I doubt, however, that there is much courage in this area. We're talking about removing the NAE. Why not? But it will take a management school. For too long, senior officials have no longer had any connection with the lives of the vast majority of their compatriots, especially those living in disadvantaged, rural areas, far too far from where decisions are made. A category of off-ground public decision-makers has been created, with the desire to create frameworks that can adapt to all decisions, to all areas of government intervention. How many of them would be able, for example, to locate the city of Mende in Lozère?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u70	Easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u71	I wish I could ask them. Today, administration is too often in a logic of control and constraint. We have to move on to a culture of accompaniment. Thus, each user should know who to turn to in case of rejection of his request, rather than being left alone in the face of a refusal. For example, of the 100,000 cases dealt with by the Defender of Rights in 2018, 55% concerned the dysfunctions of the public service, an increase of 10% compared to 2017, proof that there are serious difficulties within the administration. Secretary of State, I invite you to meditate on this vision: to put the general interest at the heart of the public service is first and foremost to put the human person at the heart of public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u72	The man first! It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u73	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u74	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u75	A little over a year ago, the President of the Republic declared in Tunis that the civil service should not be "a protected citadel". This clearly assumed vision of Emmanuel Macron's intention to affect the status of public servants is based on a desire to transform our public service to achieve efficiency and competitiveness objectives. But to serve the public interest, to act for the good of all does not necessarily mean that our public functions should be included in an entrepreneurial approach. Strategies that allow a company to compete in a competitive market cannot be the same when it comes to public utility services. Unfortunately, Secretary of State, today you seem to want the public service to function as a company, to the detriment of the cohesion of French society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u76	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u77	What allows me to say that is not only the facts – your public service transformation bill – but also your words. Indeed, a year ago, on the radio, you explained that we could do the same service to the French, or even better, with 120,000 fewer posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u79	Such an assertion is symptomatic of the prejudices in which the Government and its majority are locked up. Of course, since the yellow vest crisis, you seem to have gone back in part on this desire to reduce the number of staff in the public service, and believe that Members of the Freedom and Territory Group will be extremely vigilant in this regard. We will be all the more so since a disengagement of the State in the territories has accompanied the various policies of downsizing, resulting in discrimination between the territories and among our fellow citizens. The State cannot leave a part of the French on the side. Everyone has the right to have access to quality public services, and the modernization of the public service must not be done to the detriment of our public servants or the public interest for which they work on a daily basis. Unfortunately, today it seems that you have taken the path of a public service that will be less able to respect the principles underlying it: the principles of neutrality, integrity and equal treatment of users. With your ambition to transform the public service, how do you think you can meet the public service needs of tens of millions of users who need to be educated, cared for, protected, accompanied? How do you intend to give our public hospitals, especially emergency services, the human and financial means to carry out their mission of general interest? What will happen to our EHPADs, who will have to cope with the increase in the number of their residents, due to the ageing of the population? What about universities that need to accommodate more and more students? They were 400,000 in 1974 and they will be 3 million by 2022! Finally, what about the internal security services, which have been in great demand in recent months, which are understaffed, and which are waiting to pay for their overtime, as indeed other parts of the public service? [[Exclaims on the benches of the IDU-I group]] The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the tabling of the motion for a resolution, as it provides an additional opportunity to voice the views of the territories calling for the return of public services. Members of our group are calling for a new phase of deconcentration, bearing the values of our Democratic and Social Republic, alongside genuine decentralization. But in order to put public services back at the heart of the territories, to allow the general interest to live in every city, every municipality, every neighbourhood, to go up to the last kilometer, it is essential to change paradigm and, for this, to act in advance on several levels. First, the Government must establish a moratorium on the closure of public services. If this precondition is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution by France, unfortunately it is not included in the operative part of the text, where it is only intended to freeze any reform of the civil service until the Government has carried out the requested assessments and clarifications. Of course, our group agrees with this request, but we would have liked it to be accompanied by a genuine moratorium on the closure of public services. The Libertés et Territoires Group had tabled amendments to this effect during the examination of the draft law on the transformation of the civil service. It is also essential to take stock not only of the impact of downsizing on the missions of general interest of our officials, but also of the skills of public officials, for example, in the digital field. New technologies are increasingly being used by the State to address the lack of public services in the territories. However, the gap in practices, if it is real between users, is equally true between civil servants. This makes all the more sense because the skills of public officials are at the heart of the merit pay that the Government wants to strengthen with its bill to transform the civil service – a remuneration on merit that can only be effective if the overtime due by the Government is paid. If not, how can we motivate agents who give the best of themselves? We had tabled an amendment to that effect when we considered your bill and regret that this motion for a resolution does not address the subject. In addition to this moratorium and this broader state of affairs, we consider it essential to rethink the division of powers between the State and local and regional authorities. [[Exclaims on the benches of the IDU-I group]] More than ever, it is essential to know who does what, who has the ability to do what. Indeed, in order for the general interest to fully regain its place in our public functions, the Republic must show greater flexibility and clearly allow differentiation, experimentation, regulatory autonomy and even legislative autonomy for the territories that would request it, such as Corsica or overseas. For our group, the state must refocus on its sovereign missions. It must be a strategist State that ensures that communities fully exercise their powers and to which it adopts a genuine contractual and partnership practice. [[Applause and bravo on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – New exclamations on the benches of the IUD-I group]] You see this, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, if the spectre of this motion for a resolution is not sufficiently broad in the eyes of our group, we understand and support the request it makes. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u80	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u81	"Put the public interest back at the heart of the public service": but has the public interest ever really left the public service? Did Sully not embody the general interest with Henry IV, as Richelieu with Louis XIII? Did Robespierre and Saint-Just, to speak to another side of the Chamber, not themselves, in their time, embody the general interest in the service of the public? Whether in the public service school or in the public service, the public service mission remains the exercise of a task in the service of the user in the general interest. It shall entail the exercise, on behalf of and on behalf of a legal entity, of a mission for which the exercise of exorbitant prerogatives of ordinary law is conferred on officials. It finds its source in Jean Bodin, who theorized the state, and therefore the nation, at a time when the old regime pushed it to absolutism. The State will then be defined as the holder of the monopoly of legitimate violence. But the public interest has never ceased to be at the heart of public service. The public service has evolved at the same pace as society. Finally, exercising public service means taking into account the expression of the sovereignty of the State, knowing that some of its prerogatives have been detached to be exercised as closely as possible, while other powers have been delegated to a larger, stronger entity: the European Union. From this point of view, everyone can contribute to a better exercise of public service, which can be carried out by various means, and sometimes even by the action of private individuals, as illustrated by social security, one of our greatest successes. The state has been able to fuel the ambition to drastically reduce its participation over time, and that is regrettable. But paradoxically, the state did not stop this trend when Mr. Mélenchon was a member of the Jospin government. While some "outsourcing" or privatizations, to call them by name, have been successes, others are much more questionable. Some are now bringing them to trial. The reduction in the number of public service employees is not unique to the current quinquennium, but goes back to what was called the general review of public policies, led by Sarkozy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u82	"Sir" Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u83	Or "Nicolas" Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u84	President Sarkozy. Result: 12,500 police officers less!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u85	It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u86	When one intends to embody the authority of the State, is that really the answer to be given? Deleting 10,000 teaching positions, supposed to embody authority, passing on knowledge, building public service, is that really the answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u87	No, it's outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u88	It really wasn't right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u89	Of course, this movement was partly corrected at the last quinquennium by the creation of 6,900 police posts and by new investments in the public school. Today, we are taking a radically different path. I will illustrate it in three ways. First, public service must operate on a scale where it is effective and palpable for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u90	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u91	For example, for tax purposes, it is Europe. We will not coerce the financial powers by closing on the States. That is why, to tax GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – we need a European tax. For the police, the appropriate level is that of the state – we have never done better. The school, on the other hand, must be taken care of by the local authorities: it is as close as possible that we must give a response to families and children and carry out a genuine public policy of national education. Second, the public service must be able to transfer – if necessary, by imposing a unilateral change in contracts on its contractors. It must be able to evolve, on the one hand, so that its agents do not despair at the lack of results of their action, on the other hand, to remain relevant and to register its action on the scale that has been defined. Mr. Thiriez's work on the senior public service shows that none of the categories of the public service will be exempt from this profound change. Thirdly, we must reinvest, as we do in school. The split classes are a first example. Another example is the twenty-four classes for kindergartens, CP and CE1. The daily security police, thanks to the hiring of 10,000 people, will find the same number of officers present in the field as in 2007. We are also reinvesting in hospitals, where many others have withdrawn resources and skills. Mr Coquerel, the public interest has always been, and remains, at the heart of the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u92	Mr. Houlié...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm finishing, Madam President. Protecting our agents and their services for the benefit of users also means recognizing the transformation of our times and the needs of our citizens. It is only by means of this lucidity that what makes France's pride, the strength of its public action, will continue to shine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u94	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u95	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u96	The Group of the European People's Party is proposing a motion for a resolution entitled 'Reintroducing the public interest at the heart of the public service'. On page 3 of the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that "the present Government is conducting this project in a dishonest and authoritarian manner".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u97	It's bad to know me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u98	[[Applause on a few benches of the UDI-I and LaREM groups]] I want to say to our colleagues in France that writing this in a motion for a resolution is serious. This means that, in our territories, the administration and the prefectural body would relay dishonest proposals, which I cannot accept.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u99	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u100	[[Ms. Émilie Chalas and Mr. Pierre Morel-À-L]] Indeed, the examination of this text is an opportunity for me to say, on behalf of the IDU and independent Group, that we have a deep respect for our officials and a great admiration for their work. Before I was a parliamentarian, I had the chance to be a local elected official for thirty years. As such, I have learned a great deal along with territorial officials, public servants and hospital officials. Mr Secretary of State, we must continue the adaptation, the evolution of the perimeter of our public services, from the highest summit of the state to the territories. Nicolas Sarkozy and his governments have carried out the general review of public policies, François Hollande has launched the modernization of public action, while Emmanuel Macron proposes us Cap 2022. For my part, Secretary of State, I do not have any advice to give you, but I think that for three essential reasons we must work on the evolution of our public services in the territories. The first reason is the arrival of digital technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u101	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u102	New generations are using digital technology. The older ones are constrained by the rules in this area, including the quasi-obligation to use tele-reporting services for income tax purposes. Today, 70% of households use it. The second reason leading to an evolution of the perimeter of the state services in the territories is the reorganization of the territorial institutions, the redistribution of the perimeters of the regions and departments desired by François Hollande and his governments. The third reason for the development of public services as close as possible to users, including businesses, is the reorganization of industrial groups, family or craft enterprises. All these subjects – services to individuals, services to elected officials and local authorities, services to businesses – must lead successive governments, and thus that of Édouard Philippe, to modernise the state's presence in the territories. Mr Secretary of State, in order to be a Member of Parliament for a number of years, I have had an experience that has enabled the elected representatives and territorial actors of the Fougères-Vitré district to grasp the reorganization of the state services. In 2008, Prefect Michel Cadot entrusted the sub-prefect of the borough of Fougères with a study on this reorganization. This sub-prefect worked on the reorganization of the prefectural corps, the presence of the judiciary, including the court of instance and the council of the prud'hommes, the establishment of the security forces and the treasury. This global vision was worked out with all local elected officials, which allowed us to stem the withdrawal of the state presence in the district. Today, Minister Gérald Darmanin is working on the reorganization of cash flows across the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u103	Thank you, Congressman...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u104	I am convinced that, if the modernization of state services in the territories is conducted under the authority of the prefectural corps, including regional prefects, prefects of departments and sub-prefects of boroughs – which I call, for my part, "district prefects" – we will succeed, with the benevolent participation of local elected officials, in adapting the organization of public services, whether in the state, territorial or hospital civil service, as close as possible to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u105	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u106	I'm finishing, Madam President. A few days ago, in this Chamber, we discussed the creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, in the presence of Jacqueline Gourault. I am sure, Mr. Secretary of State, that this will give you the opportunity to work on the reorganization and presence of the State services as close as possible to the inhabitants of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u107	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u108	The resolution that is being debated in your chamber has allowed you to address a number of issues related to the public service, the concept of the public interest and the Public Service Transformation Bill that I have had the honour to bring before you and that I will have the honour and pleasure of defending tomorrow in the Senate. We hope, as we have said, that this text will be adopted before the summer so that the main provisions of this text can be implemented by 1 January 2020. I note the following main lessons from the general discussion. First of all, on all the benches of the Chamber as well as in the Government, one shares the conviction that the general interest in France, embodied by the public service and the public officials who serve it, is based on a russeluist conception, in contrast to the Anglo-Saxon conception that could be said to be inspired by Locke. We are united around the idea that the general interest is far beyond the mere addition of particular interests and that, on the contrary, one must transcend the addition of particular interests in order to serve the general interest. For the rest, beliefs were expressed and specific topics addressed. I am thinking, for example, of the attractiveness of the public service, of career development, of the conditions of employment of public officials, or of their housing conditions. Mrs Duby-Muller referred to the residence allowance, on which we have to work, as well as to the State's real estate policy, so that, beyond the wage or compensation aspects, we are able to better support public officials in their installation at the time of their first appointment, in the event of a change in the composition of their family home or during an ex officio transfer to a region or territory where the price of real estate may be particularly high. On several occasions, I have noted requests for an assessment, for an assessment of the reforms carried out. Such assessments exist: I am thinking, for example, of the RMPP, which was carried out in September 2012 by the Court of Auditors and a number of parliamentarians, including the rapporteur-general of the budget at the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u109	That record is yours! You belonged to the majority at the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u110	This assessment, which I share, Mr Minot, was rather bleak, particularly with regard to the method. He showed that the RGPP was conducted with some form of brutality and proved ineffective. Other reforms in the public service and in the public administration have been carried out, be it the New Generation Prefectures Plan – PPNG – or the modernization of public action, which Mr.David wanted to evaluate while condemning it in advance, which will certainly go right to the heart of those who, in his political group, participated in the conduct of this programme, which I myself supported. All these balances are available. The documentary resources of the various evaluation bodies and the work carried out by France Stratégie offer us an exhaustive view of the results and consequences of each of the public action reforms that have been carried out. Finally, some speakers defended the substance of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party. The Government disagreed with the text on four main points, which had already been highlighted, inter alia, by Ms. Chalas and Mr. Houlié. The first disagreement, also underlined by Mr Balanant, relates to the title of the motion for a resolution, which aims to "put the public interest back at the heart of the public service". This title might suggest, but perhaps this is not the intention of the authors, that the public interest would no longer animate public officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u111	If you'd listened to me, you'd know that's not what this is about! That's a dishonest argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u112	I do not think that is the case. All the public officials I meet, both incumbent and contractual, are motivated by the desire to carry out their duties and perform their duties in the public interest. The other three points of disagreement sometimes limit, in my view, to a form of intellectual dishonesty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u114	You are making the Public Service Transformation Bill a bad trial in terms of staffing. In recent months, I have spent a few hundred hours on this text, but no one is infallible: some provisions may have escaped me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u115	It's good to recognize him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u116	So if any of you find in this bill a provision or clause that includes budgetary measures or measures affecting the workforce of the public service, let it come to light! In fact, there is no provision in this text concerning the evolution of the workforce of the civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u117	CAP 22, does that mean anything to you?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u118	In fact, it would be stupid to set by law an overall goal of reducing or increasing the number of public servants, since no legislation currently determines the exact number of public jobs for the nation as a whole. Furthermore, as we have always said and as the speakers of the majority have pointed out, we are convinced that it is possible to make a public service more effective even without replacing a number of retirements. That said, the objective set by the President of the Republic of a reduction of 120000 FTEs in the State civil service and the territorial civil service – note that we are responding to the request for the Sanctuarisation of the hospital civil service – is not a totem: it is subordinated to the maintenance of quality and must respect the commitment made by the President of the Republic on 25 April not to close any hospitals or schools without the agreement of the local elected officials, who must therefore be closely associated with such a decision. Our third point of divergence relates to the issue of the status of the public service. This status, which was adopted by the Act of 13 July 1983, is not called into question. You can ascertain this by consulting the opinion of the Council of State, which stresses the preservation of section 3 of the 1983 Act, which lays down the principle of permanent employment by incumbents. The Council also notes that, as part of the reform of the social dialogue that we propose, we maintain another fundamental principle of the Statute, which provides for the participation of public officials in decisions affecting them through representative trade union organisations. Thus, no provision of the bill challenges the values and principles of the statute,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u119	So you won't hire more contractors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u120	...even if we fully assume the task of modernising it and carrying out a major overhaul of the laws and regulations that govern it. These provisions, in addition to the more than 200 amendments made since 1983, are simply intended to make the official an actor. Indeed, after passing from the public servant subject to the public servant recognized in his rights, we now want an actor public servant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u121	Wasn't he already?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u122	I come to the last, extremely strong, divergence with the comments made by the authors of the motion for a resolution, taken up by other speakers, of which I must admit that they leave me somewhat terrified. Listening to some of you, contract agents would not have the same value as incumbents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u123	It's not a question of value, it's a question of status!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u124	When you go to a social security counter, a city hall or a hospital, I challenge you to determine whether the person who receives you falls under the status of the public service or a contractual framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u125	That's quite possible! Ask the users!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u126	All agents participate in the public service with the same desire, the same ambition. Above all, section 32 of the 1983 Act establishes that contractual agents are subject to the same duties and have the same rights as the incumbents. The trial you are doing is insulting to the millions of contract agents who serve the public service, the public service and the public interest on a daily basis, like all the incumbents. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] For all these reasons, the Government opposes the adoption of this motion for a resolution which, both in its recitals and in its operative part, is both inappropriate and, in some respects, imbued with intellectual dishonesty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u127	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u128	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of Mr Fabien Roussel's motion for a resolution to make the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion the main national priority 2020 (No. 2015).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u129	Mr Fabien Roussel spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u130	[[Smile]] Every year, 80 to 100 billion euros of taxes are missing from the state budget because of tax evasion and evasion. This is the biggest leak in our public finances. What am I saying, a leak? It's a hole, it's a gulf, it's an abyss, would say Cyrano de Bergerac. It is so much money that is lacking to finance our schools or hospitals, to meet the climate challenge. That is why we make this topic a priority, and you propose to make it the priority of the State. I wouldn't say nothing was done. We still managed to blow Bercy's lock! But there is still too much to do to allow for any relaxation. It is no longer time to play cat and mouse with these white-collar offenders, those cheaters who siphon our recipes and undermine the very notion of consent to tax. What was the message currently being sent by the Government? Not a word in the Prime Minister's mouth, not a single reference in an hour and a quarter of a general policy speech to detail Act 2 of the majority. Would the job be over? Is the shovel in the sand? By asking for an umpteenth report on the subject, the President of the Republic even gives the impression of playing the watch again. All the data are known, arch-known, and I will not confront you with all the reports and studies that exist on the subject – some are still hot on the shelves of the National Assembly. The French expect us to take strong action because they can no longer afford the sense of impunity reflected in the succession of scandals, which were revealed by journalists or whistleblowers but never by the state. Yes, the French demand strong action. The stakes go far beyond a tax on digital companies which is expected to bring in between 300 and 500 million euros per year. Frankly, you know that this tax won't pay anything! It attacks digital companies only and only deals with advertising, not even their profits. Moreover, companies will be able to deduct this tax from their taxes, which are already very low! In short, it will bring back peanuts: it is the peanut tax par excellence. All this leaves the field open to financiers, food and industry giants, polluters who relocate their profits to tax havens. For example, let's talk about the McDonald's scandal, which comes back to the front of the stage. In 2013, on the denunciation of the workers' unions, which I welcome here, our tax administration initiated an investigation against the US multinational due to a transfer of profits from the company to Luxembourg. Six years later, what do we see? No punishment has yet fallen! The dispute would be under negotiation with your services, Secretary of State. According to our information, McDonald's France is preparing to pay, as the company has recorded a provision for risks of 1,021 billion euros in its accounts for the financial years 2016 and 2017. Meanwhile, the European Commission has also opened an investigation, which closed in September 2018, confirming that McDo has not paid any tax on the profits in question. The Commission calls on the Member States to shoulder their responsibilities. Our Government is therefore directly challenged. What's the status of this case, Secretary of State? Frankly, if such a negotiation were confirmed, it would be another scandal. Do we recall the criminal transaction negotiated by HSBC in 2017: more than 1.6 billion euros of assets exempted from the solidarity tax on wealth and income tax, for what penalty? A fine of 300 million euros for the price of abandoning legal proceedings against the bank! Secretary of State, when you're flashed on the highway because you're driving 200 kilometres an hour, you're not negotiating: you're severely condemned, and in addition, you're being taken off your permit – it's normal, because it's criminal to drive at such a speed! This should be the same for tax evasion: if you are caught, you must be severely condemned, without negotiation, and be subject to a ban on running businesses again. When a bank cheats, they have to withdraw their license, because at that level, tax cheating is also criminal! That is why more resources must be given to the judiciary, the tax authorities and the police to track down and condemn these fraudsters. Otherwise, it's too easy! For them, it is always possible to negotiate, but for the small box in the corner, it is far from the case. We, the citizens, elected, expect the Republic to be up to the challenge, that is, unattainable with the cheaters. Otherwise, it loses all credibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u132	This is the ambition of this motion for a resolution to set an ambitious target: 0 % tax evasion, zero impunity. We are making a series of very concrete proposals for this. First, to make the fight against fraud and tax evasion the top national priority of 2020. Let us mobilize society as a whole – citizens, elected representatives, companies, associations, NGOs, trade unions and the media – to raise awareness, inform and carry out preventive actions. Tax evasion and evasion are stabbing the Republican pact, the common good, fraternity, equality and freedom. Let us therefore mobilize as widely as possible to put an end to this evil that gnaws our society. First of all, by having the right cubits to act. That is the meaning of our proposal: a constitutional reform to give the struggle the means it demands. First of all, it is a question of making tax ethics take precedence over the sacrosanct freedom to undertake. Indeed, as it stands, the Constitutional Council has already censored measures to combat tax havens on the grounds that they violate the freedom to undertake – I am thinking here of the tax transparency measures of the major groups, which we have adopted here, but which have been censored afterwards, or my proposal to ban banks from settling in tax havens, rejected in the name of the same principle. Minister, I invite you to read the thrilling account of a tax officer working for an investment firm in Jersey, who has worked for the DGSE, the External Security Branch: Where money is, A French spy at the heart of tax havens, by Maxime Renahy. This spy says that he personally attended, in Jersey, in this firm, the sale of the Samsonite factory by an American investment fund managed by Mitt Romney, the Republican senator: 106 million euros of start-up; Two years later, 950 million recovered, 200 employees on the tile in 2007 and, between us, Marine Le Pen elected in 2012. The author of this book reveals that we entrust our children to the Babilou crèches, funded by the Alpha Fund, also located in Jersey. He says that our parents are accommodated in the EHPADs – accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people – belonging to the EMERA or DomusVi groups, whose shareholders are the United Arab Emirates and whose headquarters are also in Jersey. As you can see, we are all concerned with these offshore areas, these tax havens. That is why we propose the creation of a ministry dedicated to the fight against tax evasion. He would work together on services that can now be broken up, in particular, between Bercy and the Ministry of Justice. This new ministry would take office by presenting a framework law that would give concrete expression to the high national public priority for 2020. This law would aim to give new powers to tax administration and justice. It would also provide investigative resources for associations. It would give new powers to employee representatives and trade unions to combat harmful tax practices. I am thinking here of the unions mobilized at McDonald's and many others, who see the wealth produced by their employees evaporate to tax havens through these transfer prices. This must stop! Other bills could be introduced in the future, proposing innovative and ambitious solutions, such as the collection of profits from multinationals. You did it for households: let's do it for large companies, before they go to place their money where taxes are low or zero. We have already talked about this here, but each time you say that this provision would be complicated to implement because of the numerous tax treaties drawn up with all the countries of the European Union. Well! Let's start with one end: the countries of the European Union recognised as well-known tax havens, such as Ireland, the Netherlands or Luxembourg. We must also strengthen the protection of whistleblowers, who sometimes risk their lives, and move forward on tax advisers, in the light of the work done by our colleague Christine Pires Beaune. Moreover, tax havens and environmental protection are intimately linked, firstly because tax evasion deprives us of the financial means to meet the climate challenge, but also because companies that cause the deforestation of the Amazon, oil spills or the illegal exploitation of some of our natural resources – their main activity – often have their headquarters in these offshore areas recognized for their opacity. It is impossible, during natural disasters, to find the owners and to track down those responsible! These tax havens must therefore be banned and clearly included on a blacklist, in order to push these countries to comply with a minimum of rules. As it stands, the French list, based on the European list, is bogus, null – but you know it and we have denounced it enough here. When will we finally be at the height and tip of this fight? Our law also gives value to corporate social and environmental responsibility. Let us move forward to define tax liability criteria, which could be taken into account, for example, in public procurement. Let's put the reputation of these companies at stake: it would be terribly effective! We then propose the establishment, not of a police force, but of a tax army. There is a need to increase the number of public finance and customs personnel, and to train them. This will cost public finances nothing, because these items earn more than they cost! We then propose the creation of an independent observatory, made up of experts from various backgrounds, to support Parliament in its tasks. Minister Darmanin was open to this proposal. Where are we? At the global level, the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – is working and advancing on these issues, but developing countries are still far too often on the road. They lose EUR 125 billion each year as a result of tax evasion and evasion. Let us join them at United Nations level, organize a tax COP on the model of the environmental COP and re-engineer our tax treaties to put these countries on an equal footing. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to finally tackle this scourge, which gnaws together. It is up to us to uphold the principle of equality of all in the face of taxation and to put the wealth produced at the service of the human being and of the planet. That is the meaning of this motion for a resolution which I invite you to vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u133	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u134	"The essential is constantly threatened by the insignificant," wrote René Char. We will not let you jeopardise the essential reforms that we are carrying out to reshape the Republican pact around a true consent to tax with proposals that, admittedly, are sorely lacking in realism. Last year, an overwhelming majority of deputies voted in favour of the Government's anti-fraud bill. In this bill, we put an end to Bercy's lock, so that the Prince would no longer be prosecuted. You voted against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u135	No! We voted in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u136	We have put in place an unprecedented mechanism for sanctioning accomplice intermediaries. You voted against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u137	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u138	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] We have created a new tax police service and strengthened the tax system. You voted against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u139	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u140	I can still hear you saying, "You have to go much faster. That is why the Communist Members will very soon make new proposals to you to fight against these multinationals who seek to avoid taxes, and for a fairer taxation. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u141	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u142	It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u143	A year later, there are these proposals. A tax revolution? That's nenni! A big administrative night? We're far from it! I'm sorry, dear colleague, but it seems that the mountain gave birth to a mouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u144	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u145	[[Riressur several benches of the LaREM group]] Since our proposal seemed to you, last year, insufficient, let us see what you are proposing today to strengthen the means of the tax system. You tell us that our country must have, not a police force, but a tax army. Did you come back in time, that you thought we'd come back to the great hours of Cheka? Honestly, is this serious? You are calling for the renegotiation of all bilateral tax treaties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u146	No, that's right! You didn't listen to my speech! That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u147	You are well aware that these negotiations depend as much on the will of the French Government as on that of the other signatory countries. At the slow pace of three conventions negotiated every five years, paradise will probably have changed place! It is for this reason that we ratified last year the OECD multilateral convention, which allows us to circumvent these difficulties and to provide a concrete and pragmatic response to the erosion of the tax bases and the transfers of profits that are now ruining our republican pact. Nothing will be done unilaterally, you know it perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u148	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u149	Lack of political will!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u150	In fact, quote me only one country in the world that has succeeded in this area by acting alone! Beyond this multilateral action, albeit slow, but realistic, the other major issue we must address is consent to tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u151	Let's talk about it. You're not fixing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u152	How did we manage to make the avoidance of tax obligations a national sport – I should even say: the most international and most shared sport? Making sense of taxation is the objective of the reforms that we have undertaken since the beginning of the mandate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u153	The ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u154	... to give meaning to our social model and our public services,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u155	Flat tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u156	... to find a form of tax justice that is now particularly illegible,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u157	And the dividend tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u158	... and to return to the principles of 1789, where every citizen and every enterprise contributes to the common effort according to his faculties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u159	That wouldn't be bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u160	There are more than 5000 articles in the General Tax Code, a significant number of which are amended annually. Tax legislation is a packaged engine, an open door to optimisation and escape by privileged people who have the means to optimize their taxes, and a source of error for the poorest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u161	So, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u162	You say in your proposal: "To a systemic problem, systemic responses are needed. We must therefore act at all levels, from local to transnational. You can see that I read it well! Bill on the fight against fraud, GAFA tax – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – multilateral convention with the OECD, draft minimum tax with the G20: it is at all these levels that our majority strives to combat fraud, with serious and concerted proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u163	These are plans! Nothing's going on. It's wind!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u164	Why did you abstain from the digital services tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u165	Indeed, why?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u166	Because it's peanuts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u167	Why did you vote against the anti-fraud law? Have you not thus become the objective allies of the fraudsters and multinationals against whom you claim to fight – or, to use this formula dear to Lenin, the useful idiots of a system of which you are now the last bulwark? Colleagues, vote with us for more tax justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u168	Never!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u169	Work with us to rebuild our republican pact!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u170	A wind turbine blows less wind than you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u171	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But I believe, after all, that the best summary of your approach was at the beginning of your presentation: do you want to "post"? Well, when you post, we act!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u172	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u173	This evening we are considering the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u174	Coconuts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u175	It tends to make the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion the top national priority for 2020. I think we all agree that tax evasion and evasion are real scourges for our public finances. According to the NGO Oxfam, tax evasion and evasion cost France between 60 and 80 billion euros each year. This is a great injustice for all individuals and entrepreneurs who pay their taxes regularly, without seeking to avoid them as much as possible and by all means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u176	Honest people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u177	Faced with the legitimate anger of our most fragile fellow citizens who work hard to win the SMIC sometimes, the urgency to act has become even more felt,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u178	They're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u179	...which, I imagine, motivated your motion for a resolution. Over the past eight months, several of our colleagues have been working on this complex subject, which demonstrates the importance we attach to it. There was the fact-finding mission of the Finance Committee on the tax evasion of large companies, led by Bénédicte Peyrol and Jean-François Parigi. The evaluation and monitoring committee also published a report last March, following the work of its mission to assess the fight against financial crime, led by Jacques Maire and Ugo Bernalicis, not to mention the joint flash mission of the Foreign Affairs and Finance Committees, led by Pierre Cordier and Émilie Cariou, which is expected to lead in a few weeks to recommendations which I hope will be taken up by the Government. [["Ah? »on the benches of the GDR group]] This struggle cannot only take place in a Chamber on Monday evening, although political mobilization is obviously important. Let us be realistic: this fight must go first and foremost through multilateral agreements within the OECD and the European Union. We must be wary of purely coercive measures, which would only penalise companies in France and avoid investment. On the contrary, our country must restore confidence to investors. That is why, even if we agree with you, we cannot vote in favour of your motion for a resolution which, in our view, goes too far. You, ladies and gentlemen of the GDR Group, believe that the current measures are insufficient and that we are not doing enough to combat tax evasion and fraud. I understand and share your impatience.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u180	Ah, you see, Mrs. David! It's going too far!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u181	[["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, some progress is to be welcomed. Ten years ago, at the London Summit, the G20 made the fight against tax evasion a priority. Since then, it has been encouraging the exchange of information between States on bank accounts held by foreigners. Since 2017, the OECD, an arm of the G20 in tax matters, has moved to a higher speed. About 100 States have thus agreed to automatically exchange information on these offshore accounts. The first results presented by the OECD last week are very encouraging. Between September and December 2018, 90 countries reported data on 47 million bank accounts held by foreigners. These 47 million accounts hold the colossal sum of $4,900 billion, more than twice the French GDP. These assets do not necessarily correspond to fraud because holding an account abroad is legal on condition that it is reported. But this precise information on the names and balances of the accounts allows the tax authorities of different countries to cross-check what is declared with what is hidden. Thanks to this scheme, nearly EUR 10 billion was recovered by the French tax authorities, according to the OECD report. You will tell me, ladies and gentlemen, that this is only one sixth of the annual losses, but we can hope that this will help to track down fraudsters and deter those who might have been tempted. In any event, we must not be content with these results, which are only an indispensable step. Discussions with our European partners in the framework of the OECD need to be even stronger on these issues. Pressure must be maintained for greater international transparency. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, we are on the right path. It will be too long, surely too long, but I assure you that we share your goal of "zero tax evasion" for both individuals and businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u182	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u183	Fraud and tax evasion are intolerable behaviour, and we all agree on all of these. In essence, anti-civilistic acts violate in a continuous and repeated manner our social pact and the fundamental principles that govern our Republic, in particular the principles of consent to tax and equality before taxation. As elected officials, we have a duty to be ambitious in terms of both means and results in the face of a protein phenomenon, the real scale of which remains to be assessed. In this connection, I should like to welcome the willingness shown by the President of the Republic to entrust the Court of Auditors with a costed assessment of tax fraud by November. Knowing the extent of tax fraud is essential for the implementation of a successful fight policy as soon as possible. However, the difficulty of the company must not be hidden and the absolute need to combat such behaviour must not obscure the complexity of the subject. While tax fraud has always existed, the ever-increasing development of digital tools, coupled with the increasing complexity of national tax rules, is a real obstacle to the implementation of a successful policy of fight against tax fraud. The latter, therefore, often lags behind the fraudsters, whom they quickly take advantage of. This reality is recognized in the explanatory memorandum to the resolution, which states that this fight is far from easy. It is regrettable, however, that the content it develops does not always take this into account, both in the arguments put forward and in the proposed measures, even though it must be acknowledged, dear colleague, that you have made your remarks clear in your speech in the rostrum. The subject, however, deserves more than measures of intent, which will not effectively combat behaviour that creates profound injustice, and which are increasingly unbearable to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u184	We have to start somewhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u185	A strong action plan in this area must be based on two pillars: pragmatism and effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u186	That's exactly what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u187	That is what we have worked to do, until we have made it a marker of our action. No political resignation lives on us. On the contrary, voluntarism has characterized the past two years: many measures have been taken, thus widening the range of tools at our disposal to combat the scourge of tax evasion and evasion, which erodes our social cohesion. The anti-fraud law of 23 October 2018 largely addresses the concerns expressed in your motion for a resolution. It is an essential step in the implementation of a far-reaching policy of struggle. Thanks to important innovations, it strengthens the detection and characterization of fraud, including the establishment of a national judicial investigation unit within the Ministry responsible for the budget. This new organization of the investigative structures and their specialisation are indicative of a strong political will to empower the agents to carry out their tasks of general interest. Of course, it is not the panacea, but the introduction of new fiscal and social fines, which will be able to punish third-party accomplices for serious breaches by contributing through their provision of services to the development of fraudulent or abusive montages, or to the concealment of occult activities, is also significant. It is not possible to accept that the practice of counselling is to the detriment of the minimum requirements of tax justice. At the same time, the increase in fines incurred by taxpayers who attempt to evade tax demonstrates the desire to strengthen the penal arsenal dedicated to tax evasion and evasion. This is a serious crime, a prank in our Republican pact and the sanctions for such behaviour should be proportionate. Finally, the end of the Ministry of Finance's monopoly on the prosecution of tax evaders and fraudsters has enabled the administration to see its prerogatives in this area strengthened. Bercy's famous lock has been greatly reduced in its scope, and now the tax administration will be obliged to automatically pass on to the public prosecutor cases that have given rise to significant administrative penalties. This considerable progress responds to many legitimate concerns expressed in the motion for a resolution and ensures greater tax ethics. I would be far too long if I were exhaustive on the considerable contributions of this law to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. It is a real transition to a demanding and quantifiable policy of struggle, which we can only rejoice at. Because of its recent nature, its effects have not yet been assessed, but this seems absolutely necessary in order to further develop its provisions. With regard to tax evasion, only a rigorous and regular assessment of the effectiveness of the tools put in place will allow us to move forward, by continuously strengthening our administrative and legal arsenal. If national action is necessary, it must be combined with European and international action in order to gain strength. France now weighs its weight at these different levels in order to adopt rules enabling a more firm and coordinated fight. Our country is already at the forefront of negotiations related to the reform of international taxation carried out by the structures of global cooperation. France proposes, innovates, mobilizes its partners. Our work is recognized on the international scene, particularly within the OECD. We are at the forefront of the issue, we are devoting much more resources to it than many States. It is absolutely necessary to maintain this activity, which cannot fail to lead other countries that share our observation and ambitions in our wake, in what turns out to be a struggle of all time. Frontiers are moving, things are changing. In a report published on 7 June 2019, the OECD states that the automatic exchange of information has enabled some 20 countries to collect €95 billion in taxes since 2009 from bank accounts abroad, with France accounting for 10% of this amount. The deepening of cooperation in this area would enable our country to recover more. For its part, the European Union is far from being inactive. It strengthens the means at its disposal to deal with tax fraud and evasion, a movement strongly supported by France. It recently created and then changed the "blacklist" of tax havens – it's not perfect, it's true, it's...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u188	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u189	... but it has the merit of existing – and has also launched a new transaction network analysis tool that gives Member States' tax authorities the means to quickly and easily access information on cross-border transactions, in order to act quickly when potential VAT fraud in particular is detected. Other measures have been put in place, in particular with regard to corporate tax, with an acceleration of work on the directives with a view to implementing harmonised rules for the determination of the base. The European Union must, however, strengthen itself on these issues, at a time when reactions to the proposal for a GAFA tax, which is still largely tax-free, have shown that the European tax system is not adapting to these challenges. The fiscal disparity between the Member States of the European Union is one of the major problems, allowing some economic actors to develop circumvention strategies and robbing the possibilities for deepening European tax rules. By creating the worst, namely competition between partner countries, it hinders the Union's logic and its ability to remedy these strategies of avoidance or fraud in the field of corporate taxation, despite its real willingness to act. It is time for the European Union to begin its work, to speak with a strong voice on the international stage, in order to overcome the shortcomings of the systems, particularly in the area of tax evasion. France is very active at European level on these issues. Moreover, it is not annoyed that the Anti-Fraud Act of 2018 has extended the French list of non-cooperative states and territories to the European Union list. It is imperative that the European Union goes further. That is why the MoDem Group supports the President of the Republic's desire to put an end to the rule of unanimity in tax matters at European level. In conclusion, the fight against fraud and tax evasion cannot only be the cause of a year; It is the priority of the quinquennium and of our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u190	It's the same as for citizen engagement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u191	Exactly, and far beyond our benches, I give it to you. A real normative body has been in place since 2017, based on an efficiency approach. We have taken on board the complexity of the subject, its multipolar nature and its international dimension, in order to ensure the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion at all levels. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] While we share the same philosophy and pursue the same objective, we do not fully adhere to the proposed methods. We will continue to struggle with the same vision, with efficiency and pragmatism, throughout the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u192	At least she didn't brew the wind!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u193	At least she has responded to our motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u194	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u195	Our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left are inviting us this evening to discuss the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. Let us say that from the outset, their motion for a resolution is welcome. The fight against tax fraud is a top priority and an objective of constitutional value, as recalled by the Constitutional Council in its decisions of June 2016. Not only does the State's loss of profits clearly undermine its ability to manage its budget, but fraud seriously undermines the tax consent of an increasing proportion of taxpayers who actually pay it. We understood it and under the previous quinquennium, much has been done. Much progress has been made under pressure from the then left-wing majority and also through OECD recommendations. Let me remind you of some of these: the creation of the national financial prosecutor's office; that of the processing service for amending declarations – STDR – which has made it possible to regularise more than 32 billion euros of assets, for 50,000 applications filed. This service allowed many recoveries that would not have taken place without it. The Sapin 2 Act contains many provisions relating to the fight against tax fraud and, in particular, introduces a criminal transaction procedure for legal persons in the case of certain offences such as the laundering of tax fraud. In terms of transparency and information exchange between tax administrations, the left-wing majority achieved progress in the framework of the 2013 Banking Act and also the introduction of the tax advisor scheme in autumn 2016 in the 2017 Finance Bill. This amendment, which I defended, followed the revelations on several large-scale international tax fraud cases: I am thinking, for example, of HSBC, UBS and Panama paper cases. This arrangement was sustained in 2018 thanks precisely to an amendment by our colleague Fabien Roussel, taken over by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u196	I was a pioneer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u197	Since you came to the responsibilities, it is fair to acknowledge that you have continued your efforts in the fight against fraud with the enactment, on 23 October 2018, of the Anti-Fraud Act, which largely removed Bercy's lock and created a new tax police department. With regard to fraud and tax evasion, the demand of our citizens is simple: it is zero impunity! They want fraud to disappear and everyone to pay the taxes they owe. It is our duty to respond to this widely shared demand. As you know, Mr Minister, I have proposed to the Finance Committee of this House, in the context of the evaluation of the tax advisory system and in the light of the eloquent results, that international VAT fraud be extended to cover, in particular, so-called carousel fraud in intra-Community purchases and deliveries. I have made other proposals and I hope that we will be able to reach a conclusion on the next finance law. The fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is part of the broader framework of defending the nation's fundamental interests. The aim is to remain in control of its finances, to preserve social cohesion and to combat all forms of attacks and interference against the direct economic and financial interests of the State and its indirect economic fabric.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u199	Without this control of taxation, public policies are seriously threatened. Tax evasion and evasion are poisonous to our democracy. Impunity in this regard is unbearable. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] According to the sources, and pending the Court of Auditors' report in November 2019, estimates of the amount of tax evasion and evasion in France range from around 10 billion to 100 billion euros. Therefore, wanting to make the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion the top national priority 2020 is not only a welcome but indispensable motion for a resolution. The Socialist and Related Group will vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u200	Ah! The plural left...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u201	The common program itself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u202	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u203	Our friends, not to say our comrades, communists, offer us to make the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion a top national priority in 2020. The fight against tax fraud is a major issue in the sovereignty and recovery of public accounts and, as such, is a priority for public action. How much does the French tax administration lose each year as a result of tax evasion by individuals and professionals? 100 billion euros, replied in September the union Solidarity Public Finances, which published a report on the subject. The tax administration estimates that between EUR 25 billion and EUR 100 billion a year are lost in the form of fraud. This in no way diminishes the expectation of our fellow citizens who feel a blatant injustice and see the consent to tax, yet at the foundation of the Republican pact – each citizen must contribute according to his or her ability to public office – every day further backwards. It is very complicated to encrypt fraud and tax optimization. While tax optimisation is known, tax fraud is much more difficult to assess and circumscribe, because by definition it is hidden. In an attempt to clarify this point, but also to assess the phenomenon, the Prime Minister has commissioned the Court of Auditors on the subject. First and foremost, it is essential to estimate the extent of tax fraud in the country and to assess the actions of the State services and the tools put in place. Appreciating all the breaches of the tax law will help to consolidate the citizenship of taxpayers in the face of practices that weaken the social pact and undermine competition between economic actors as much as they undermine public revenues. Finally, the real question is whether the means of combating fraud in our country are sufficient. Pascal Saint-Amans, responsible for tax policy and the fight against international tax fraud at the OECD, said at a recent hearing before our Finance Committee that at the global level, France is at the forefront of the fight against fraud. There are few countries in which the debate on this subject is so important, to the point where protesters write tax slogans on the walls of our buildings. Some people are demanding more. Nevertheless, it can be recognized that controls are increasingly targeted and that the end of bank secrecy with countries such as Switzerland has enabled billions to enter the credit unions. We can do better, we have to do better, it's obvious because even if it won't fill the deficit, it's a matter of justice and tax acceptance. As far as the budget is concerned and tax avoidance is concerned, it is elsewhere. Part of this is based on a minimum harmonisation of taxation at European level and, better still, at OECD level, but also on the way to tax digital giants, which are largely tax-free. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] As a member of the commission of inquiry into the commercial relations between industrialists and large-scale distribution, which seeks to identify the role of purchasing centres, I observe that, like high finance, purchasing centres and service centres, real areas of financial opacity are created. That is why, on behalf of the IDU and independent Group, I will support this motion for a resolution. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] This is my third mandate and I observe that all governments are killing themselves to seek tax revenues. They often look at citizens and businesses. I think modestly that on the side of high finance, large distribution, more precisely purchasing power stations and service plants, there is something to look at. I understand that the Government is a little shy when it deals with these issues at the international level because it is always diplomatically sensitive, but it is the responsibility of every Member of Parliament to "move the beast". The motion for a resolution by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is in the right direction. Our Communist comrades here identify a real subject and each of us can only support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u204	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u205	As Frédéric Ozanam wrote in 1836, "often fraud is preceded by a ghost of loyalty." In other words, fraud is above all a moral mistake. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] The numbers are edifying, vertiginous! Even if there is no precise estimate in essence, the losses associated with tax evasion alone would amount to between 80 and 100 billion euros per year, for our country alone! This loss of earnings accounts for more than 6 per cent of our country's public spending and almost twice its national education budget, excluding pensions. 100 billion euros is one and a half times the annual income tax revenue! This represents the construction of 24,000 schools or 300 hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u206	Scary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u207	It is therefore an important manna, of which the State is deprived, which makes one less resource for the benefit of the general interest. Let us make it clear that any tax avoidance manoeuvre is a blow to the Republican pact. Tax evasion and evasion run counter to the principles of our right, such as equality and, in particular, equality before the public office. As such, tax evasion and evasion are the greatest threats to the economic and social well-being of our citizens. The fight against tax fraud and tax evasion must not only be guided by budgetary or economic considerations. This goes far beyond this: I am thinking of the solidarity due to each and every one because by reducing public revenues, fraudsters reduce the ability of states to finance ambitious public policies. How can we demand that our citizens consent to tax if, at the same time, multinationals avoid by all possible means participating in the collective effort even though they rely on tax-funded infrastructure and public services, such as roads or schools? Let us recall here: consent to tax is one of the founding elements of our living together. In this connection, the GDR Group proposes to include the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion in the Constitution: on this point there may be debate and the Liberties and Territories Group has reservations. Finally, tax evasion and evasion distort competition between economic actors. In short, these acts of delinquency are factors of injustice and inefficiency. That is why we must make it one of the priorities of the public authorities today more than ever. In the past, many initiatives have already been taken. I am thinking of the law of 6 December 2013 on the fight against tax fraud and major economic and financial crime or the draft law against fraud, which was finally adopted on 10 October 2013 and which is very timely to strengthen the sanctions against tax, social and customs fraud. In recent years, this multi-faceted crime has steadily increased, both in terms of the weight of public finances, the number of actors involved and the complexity of the patterns developed. The need to combat tax evasion is evident in an international awareness, which has increased since 2013 and is now at the heart of global political issues. Panama Papers, Paradise Papers, LuxLeaks... so many scandals that legitimately shock our fellow citizens. The documentary La très grande escape, which is being directed by Yannick Kergoat and Denis Robert, must challenge us. Fraud, escape or optimisation – aggressive or not – is based on complex, ingenious and extremely well-organised international systems involving many actors. The big fraud is international fraud, organized and thought to avoid tax on a large scale. Financial crime doesn't stop at borders – it's at stake! The Liberties and Territories Group therefore considers it imperative to act together with our European neighbours and, beyond that, at the OECD level, in a context of internationalisation and dematerialisation of the economy. This is one of the main difficulties in the fight against tax evasion: competition, if not the war that some states are engaged in in this area. The problem is international, so the answer must be international. This has become all the more necessary as the emergence of new forms of financial crime makes investigations more complex and requires international investigations. Our country is already engaged in this cooperation, but we still see instances of misapplication of the data exchange system, notably between France and the United States under the FATCA, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. We must therefore go further and faster. The ambitious BEPS, Base erosion and profit shifting project of the OECD offers several ways to combat tax avoidance practices that companies engage in. For its part, the European Union is also making progress and, since 2015, has launched numerous initiatives strengthening the means to combat tax fraud and tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u208	It is the whole world that must mobilize.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u209	You're right, Mr. Lassalle. France, for its part, plays a leading role both in Europe and internationally and, thanks to its efforts, has made significant progress. The creation of a digital services tax that we voted for a few weeks ago is in this direction. While the political discourse we hear on both sides of this House is always proactive, the resources put in place are still insufficient and the services supposed to combat tax fraud and evasion are being hampered, in particular because, at the same time, the technical and human resources of the administration have been drastically reduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u210	There's no information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u211	Thus, between 2009 and 2016, the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Finance, DGFiP, decreased by 17 per cent, a decrease of 2000 officers per year, and the eighteen judges of the national financial prosecutor's office, each of whom is expected to deal with eight highly complex cases, actually find themselves dealing with thirty-two, or four times more. In addition, there is a lack of coordination between the various ministries involved. How can we expect effective controls under these conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u212	That's impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u213	This lack of resources and staffing is compounded by the very complex nature of the various service layers created and the slow pace of justice: procedures are extended to reach an average trial time of six years. The economic and financial police services are facing a crisis of vocations – and one can understand the loss of motivation in the face of work overload and lack of coordination. Allocating ambitious resources to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion would improve the situation of our public finances while sending a strong signal of national solidarity and social cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u214	That is exactly what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u215	After the so-called yellow vest crisis we have experienced in recent months, it would be a good policy on the part of the entire national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u216	We can still wait...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u217	As we all know, our views on taxation sometimes converge and sometimes diverge, but we are unanimous on one point: the decline in tax consent among our fellow citizens is worrying. Faced with the demands of solidarity, equality between citizens and between companies, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion will strengthen our republican pact. [[MM. Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Jean Lassalle applaud]] [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will support this motion for a resolution with conviction. We know our colleagues in the GDR Group, whom I welcome, particularly invested in this issue so that the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion becomes a high national priority in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u218	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u219	Since the social crisis of the yellow vests, no one can ignore the tax exasperation that is going through the whole country. No one here denies that consent to tax is at the foundation of the republican pact on the basis of these reasoned convictions: the general interest prevails over the particular interests, the common wealth must be redistributed precisely in order to guarantee social cohesion. In short, no individual or company should be able to derogate with impunity from its civic duties towards the national community. It must be noted, however, that the scourge of tax evasion and fraud undermines our Republic, which is a heavy burden on the nation's budget, favours the feeling of widespread collusion between the money powers and the public authorities. As the motion for a resolution by our colleagues in the Democratic and Republican Left rightly explains, tax evasion and fraud represent an abyssal loss of profits – it has been mentioned many times – which oscillates between 60 billion and 100 billion for our country every year. My colleague, who spoke earlier, has calculated how many hospitals, how many schools this represents, how many investments for energy transition and public services could be made to meet the social and ecological emergency. Certainly "the fight is not easy", as the signatories of this motion for a resolution remind us. The Kering case that hit the Pinault group, guilty of subtracting hundreds of millions of euros from the Italian tax...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u220	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u221	... sheds light on the need and the possibility for a democratic government to hit these multinationals harder.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u222	As long as he wants to!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u223	In the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, political will must take precedence over the pious wishes which glorify the speeches of the politicians in place and, also, on the pusillanimous measures adopted so far. How can we seriously organise the fight against tax fraud when we deliberately disorganise the state services by seeking, for example, to abolish nearly 20,000 civil servants in Bercy? How can we combat this scourge when our legislation, after opening Bercy's lock, finally allows the big fraudsters to avoid a trial against a prosecutor's sentence, or even allows them to buy their money-laundering by paying a fine that puts an end to the prosecution? That's what's been done! Another hypocrisy is the "tax police", the majority of which boast, whereas in reality it corresponds only to a breakdown of service-to-service services which does not make it possible to catch up with the backlog accumulated after years of clear cuts in the tax force.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u225	I will only briefly come back to the tragicomic events that have accompanied Mr Bruno Le Maire's desire to engage more firmly the balance of power with multinationals that cynically trample or bypass our tax law. First of all, it was a question of bringing the effort to a European scale by having a friendly discussion with our "partners". As is fair, what was to happen was a veto imposed by four European countries, including Ireland, which, as everyone knows, is leniently involved in tax dumping within the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u226	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u227	A absurd rule of unanimism which, in this respect, is confused with inaction, the status quo, and ultimately, the defence of established interests against any prospect of progress and harmonisation at the top of our tax systems. The Minister of Economy then had no choice but to retreat to the national level while vaguely agitating distant promises of proposals at the OECD level in order not to lose face. This has resulted in a GAFA tax that you call realistic but which we consider timid and timid. That said, it has nevertheless demonstrated the capacity of national legislation to act against this scourge of tax evasion. As we keep repeating to France, Europe must not be the mask of inertia. It is possible to act here and now so that France is at the forefront of this common battle between states and citizens against multinationals. That is why I and my group fully share the GDR Group's concern to make this fight against tax fraud a "high national priority", acting from the local to the international level. The inclusion of this imperative in our fundamental law, in our Constitution, is essential in order not to make equality of citizens before the law or the social character of our Republic an empty formula of meaning. Moreover, this proposal is in line with the political and revolutionary history of our country, which has always stood up against privileges in all their forms, from the breakdown of civic equality to this fight for real fiscal equality. The creation of a dedicated ministry or secretariat, the strengthening of the resources allocated to the anti-fraud services, the establishment of a framework law are all proposals and prompt measures to strengthen public action and to recover our budgetary sovereignty. We had also defended a series of proposals such as the tightening of the sanctions of these intermediaries – law firms or tax experts – who, not content with helping multinationals in their rapin company, were taking a nice pecule by the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u228	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u229	We have also proposed to reserve the public order for companies that do not have branches in tax havens or, again, to revise the famous list of tax havens to include unscrupulous European "partners" who play to the full the competition of the various social systems. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] This motion for a resolution, moreover, mentions many other measures that can make the fight against tax evasion a great fight, a fight that should transcend the labels and sensitivities to bring together all the real Republicans, that is, those who are committed to the justice and equality of all citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] In order to clean up the state's revenue, not to suggest that our Republic is trembling in the face of white-collar crime, the group of La France calls on you to vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Rubin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u231	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u232	The fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is a priority that goes beyond divides. Everyone on these benches is, I believe, convinced of the need to combat this scourge, which fuels the feeling of fiscal and social injustice among our fellow citizens. But... However, should we let our fellow citizens believe in the inertia of politics and justice and that nothing has been done and accomplished since the various scandals that have been known? Is this not to continue to nourish the doubt, the distrust or even the suspicion of our fellow citizens against others, guilty, you say in your motion for a resolution, of "connivance"? This accusation is serious and dangerous. However, Mr Roussel, I know enough about the complexity of the subject to avoid suggesting that the solution would be there, in front of us, without us grasping it. An ounce of action is worth a good theory, Engels said. However, our mandate is guided by action. From the beginning of the legislature, we have installed two parliamentary fact-finding missions, one on procedures for the prosecution of tax offences, the other on the international tax evasion of companies, which have experienced legislative translations in the financial laws for 2018 and 2019 – I am thinking in particular of strengthening the rules against countries with privileged tax regimes, these other tax havens of which we talk too little. There was also the law against tax evasion, which your group refused to vote twice...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u233	Because of the tax havens, which were not concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u234	.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the Public Policy Evaluation Committee, the Minister responsible for combating tax fraud and tax evasion – already at work in Bercy, Mr Roussel, his Secretary of State being with us tonight – is taking visible and effective action. He presented the first results of the anti-fraud law that came into force at the end of the year. I am thinking, in particular, of investments in the training of agents and in data mining, allowing a more precise targeting of fraud, while a quarter of the tax controls in 2017 did not result in any adjustment or penalty. Our legal and technical arsenal against fraud can certainly be further enriched, as the Minister pointed out during the Spring of the Evaluation, particularly with regard to VAT fraud. You are also proposing the renegotiation of bilateral tax treaties that clearly harm developing countries, as well as the organization, under the auspices of the United Nations, of a major international conference on tax harmonisation and justice. Again, ladies and gentlemen, do not make the French believe that this is the status quo, that nothing has been done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u235	Don't make them believe that everything has been done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u236	Since 2013, at least, as part of the BEPS project, which aims to protect the tax base of countries, the OECD has actively involved developing countries. For example, a specific programme, the "Tax and Development" programme, covers initiatives to support developing countries in implementing regimes to address problems related to the erosion of their tax bases, including transfer pricing. I am also thinking of the joint initiative of the OECD and the United Nations Development Programme, known as "Inspectors of Taxes Without Borders", which is intended to provide developing countries with support for capacity-building in tax verification. The programme has brought more than $470 million in additional income to the credit unions of developing countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u237	They'd do well to come to France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u238	To conclude on this point, I can assure you, since I had the opportunity to assist the French delegation in the negotiations at the OECD on the BEPS project, that the emerging countries were actively participating in these negotiations. I remember, in particular, the interventions of India and Brazil, which had a voice in the matter. The action of the OECD, of which France is a leading supporter and which you seem to ignore, is exemplary in this respect and produces results. Thanks to the automatic exchange of information, 4,500 exchanges of bank accounts took place between 90 different jurisdictions. This is an unprecedented effort, since it enabled the exchange of 47 million offshore accounts worth €4900 billion and generated nearly 95 billion additional revenue. Thanks to the actions of the BEPS plan and that of the European Union, 21,000 rulings came out of the secret and were transmitted, while more than 250 harmful tax practices regimes were reviewed and subsequently modified or abolished. These efforts have been made possible without common measure through strong cooperation among States. We continue to do so in the context of international discussions, in particular those of the G20, where we defend the proposal to introduce a minimum level of income tax and, within the framework of the European Union, where we support the tax harmonisation project. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We cannot support your motion for a resolution, which would amount to saying that nothing is being done. Like the quest for perfect justice, which Jean d'Ormesson saw in Sisyphe's myth as a metaphor, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is a permanent fight and a permanent duty for the political decision-makers we are. Be sure that the Government and the majority are fully involved and will continue to be involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u239	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u240	It is a very late hour to consider a motion for a resolution to make the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion the top priority for 2020. Yet, all of us here, I believe, recognize that this is an emergency. Of course, the fight is not easy in the face of these large groups with indecent fortunes, capable of bending public powers to impose their own conception of regulation. The stakes are enormous. According to the report of the Union Solidaires Finances publiques, which is based on extrapolation from tax controls, tax evasion could amount to between 60 and 100 billion euros per year for France. Some studies only assess fraud, which is illegal; Others also take into account optimisation, which is usually legal. Studies are multiple, sometimes controversial. That is why, given the complexity of this scourge, it seems urgent that an independent tax observatory, attached to Parliament and involving experts, be set up to ensure that the legislator is properly informed. Despite a few questions, everyone can imagine, when reading these figures, the implications of our discussions here in this House if they lead to decisions. Not only could we boast that we are at the forefront of the fight against tax fraud in Europe and around the world, but we could solve many social crises in our country, ensuring fairer distribution and financing our infrastructure, the energy transition and the improvement of our public services, especially our health system. As is recalled in this motion for a resolution, the French have had enough of this fatality. The yellow vests have reminded us of this and we keep hearing it in our ridings: people are asking us to act, to act quickly and effectively. It is no longer acceptable for some to continue to evade the tax, as this government continues to demand ever more effort from the middle and middle classes. Our fellow citizens say this loud and clear: everyone must contribute to the collective effort according to the wealth created. They find it indecent that some could avoid it on the grounds that they could move elsewhere and move their wealth. There is therefore an urgent need to act, at all levels, to guarantee consent to taxation, a fundamental element of our democracy. In this regard, points 1 and 2 of this motion for a resolution, namely the call for the Government to make the fight against tax fraud a priority for 2020 and the proposal to include the fight against tax fraud and evasion in the Constitution, make sense. There is, of course, some progress: our House has adopted, by a very large majority, the bill, which should make it possible to better detect and punish tax fraudsters and put an end to Bercy's lock. Before making good and new resolutions, I think it would be useful to take a first look at the most recent legislative provisions. Among these, one of the main aims is to put an end to the monopoly of proceedings held by the tax administration, via a "automatic transmission mechanism of the most serious cases", selected according to objective criteria laid down in the law. Another is the creation, in Bercy, of a specialized tax police service, which can be seized by the National Financial Prosecutor's Office in the case of cases requiring sophisticated tax expertise with considerable budgetary challenges. But the question of means arises immediately. Like our friends in the GDR Group, we therefore call on the Government to ensure that, in 2019, the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Finance and the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Fees, and to take the initiative of a three-year plan for recruitment and skills development and expertise, starting in 2020. Let us give ourselves the means to act effectively! The new legislation also reflects France's desire to review its list of tax havens in order to make it "more relevant", incorporating the criteria adopted by the European Union, namely tax transparency, tax fairness and the implementation of the plan to combat tax optimisation, known as BEPS, set up under the auspices of the OECD. While the European Union published on 12 March 2019 a blacklist of 15 countries and a grey list of 34 countries, it was widely noted that no EU member was on these lists, while many organisations say that states such as Iceland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands should be on these lists. That is why it is stated in point 9 of the motion for a resolution that it is time for Europe finally to act against tax fraud and evasion, in particular by prohibiting the existence of tax havens within it. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] In conclusion, this motion for a resolution defended by our colleagues in the GDR Group therefore receives the full and unanimous support of the Socialist and related groups. It is part of the continuity of the work that we Socialists carried out during the previous legislature, in particular with the Sapin 2 law and the work of evaluating the experimentation of tax advisers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u241	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u242	There are subjects on which we can draw a common conclusion; This is the case in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. Before discussing the modalities, let us return for a moment to the principles laid down in the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 1789 with regard to contribution. First of all, its article 13 proclaims that "for the maintenance of the public force and for administrative expenses, a common contribution is indispensable: it must be equally distributed among all citizens, because of their faculties". Article 14, for its part, proclaims that "all citizens have the right to ascertain, by themselves or by their representatives, the necessity of the public contribution, to freely consent to it, to monitor its use, and to determine its quantity, base, recovery and duration". The need for citizens to participate in the organisation of the city is thus laid down, through the contribution to the common budget. In reality, it is the functioning of public services that is at stake here, public services that require substantial funding, the reduction of which penalises our compatriots every day, especially in rural areas. It is also clear from these principles that French citizens have the power to exercise control, either directly or through their elected representatives, over compulsory levies in order to assess the correct measure. The origin of tax evasion or tax evasion – which should be distinguished from tax optimisation as such – lies precisely in the loss of a sense of common interest, of the willingness to work for a common project through the payment of taxes. It is then the reign of selfishness that triumphs, where national solidarity should prevail. While we can regret that tax fraud has, in a way, always existed, it is now on a scale that gives rise to vertigo: amounts of between EUR 50 billion and EUR 100 billion are mentioned. Beyond the considerable losses that this fraud represents for the State budget, and therefore, ultimately, for public services, the development of tax evasion has the consequence of officially discriminating between different types of taxpayers: those who remain liable to and liable to tax, on the one hand, and those who may escape it, on the other. This discrimination helps to create a real sense of injustice that, as a matter of principle, we cannot tolerate. But this situation is largely due to our current governments, the very ones who sold to the French a happy globalization, a total free trade that had to make our consumer societies happy. In fact, this system has brought forth a monster that has produced, in addition to the collapse of the standard of living of many employees, an increasingly unfair system of tax competition. And the worst part of all this is that the so-called social, peaceful, soothing paradise that was sold to us with the European Union has, in fact, been the accelerator of this phenomenon of large-scale tax evasion. There's no need to fly dozens of hours to exotic destinations to find a tax exile. It is enough to take a few tens or hundreds of kilometres to find a particularly attractive tax in Luxembourg or Ireland. Isn't it bad that Luxembourger Juncker is President of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u243	He should be in jail!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u244	"God laughs at men who deplore the effects they cherish the causes," wrote Bossuet. If we are in favour of a more intense fight to drastically reduce tax fraud and evasion, a deadly phenomenon for our public finances, we also want to tackle the causes of the phenomenon, which must be sought, beyond individual behaviour, in the inefficiency of our tax system and, often, its injustice. The tax burden cannot, in fact, continue to weigh mainly on our TPEs and SMEs, the real creators of employment in France, when they save a large part of the multinationals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u245	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u246	Similarly, it cannot continue to weigh on the middle class when, at the same time, taxpayers are given tax benefits. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] The fight against tax fraud must be accompanied by a genuine overhaul of our general tax code. This is the famous project that, so far, no political leader has had the courage to lead, and to which we are determined to attack ourselves if we come to the responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u247	The general discussion is closed. On the vote on the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u248	The fight against tax evasion is a high priority for the Government. That is why we have taken decisive action in this area, strengthening the resources allocated to the fight against fraud, particularly the most complex. But first of all I want to thank Mr Roussel for allowing us to have this debate, because he was an opportunity for all political groups to express once again, after the adoption of the law of October 2018, their commitment to the fight against fraud and to remind – and the Government shares this concern – that the voluntary failure to fulfil its tax and social obligations undermines the foundations of the trust of citizens, between them and towards the community, that fraud undermines the fundamental principle of equality before public charges, strikes the public revenues necessary for national solidarity as well as for the financing of public services, and that it distorts fair competition between economic actors. You have all reiterated that the French no longer support this fraud and demand results: that is why we have committed ourselves to this action as determined as it is determined and strong. Mrs Peyrol, in particular, recalled the elements that have brought us together for several months. Without claiming to be exhaustive on the subject, I shall cite three as illustrations. Last year, in October, in addition to the law for a State at the service of a society of trust, which developed the support component of the citizen in a relationship of trust with the administration, the Government proposed, and you adopted, a text on the fight against fraud, with the aim of enhancing the effectiveness of the fight against tax, customs and social fraud at national level, in addition to the efforts already undertaken by France at international level and that of the European Union. The provisions of this text contribute to three objectives: to detect, apprehend and punish fraud. In this context, I would like to go back to a few elements. The first element is that the Directorate-General for Public Finance concentrates its action to combat tax fraud on two points. The first is the detection and improvement of the targeting of fraudulent behaviour – the finance administration has invested heavily in data mining and data analysis, thanks to the finance bill that you passed a few months ago. The second is the application of penalties for the most serious frauds. Thus, the resources dedicated to fraud detection and sanctions against fraudsters have been strengthened. First of all, as proof, the creation of a tax police service in Bercy: the Financial Judicial Investigation Service, created by decree of 16 May, in addition to the National Tax Crime Brigade – BNRDF – which is attached to the Ministry of the Interior. This service will bring together the judicial customs officers of the current National Judicial Customs Service and the judicial tax officers, under the authority of the same magistrate. This new service will build on the experience already gained within the NJS and make use of the complementarities of the tax and customs teams in the fight against serious crime. It will therefore have been less than eight months after the adoption of the law of 23 October 2018 on the fight against fraud, so that a new service specialized in the fight against tax, customs and financial fraud, to which we had committed ourselves, will be created and will be operational. In addition, the Act strengthened criminal sanctions by significantly increasing the fine for tax evasion. It has also made it possible to publish the tax sanctions imposed on accomplices of tax fraudsters, and has reformed the procedure for criminal prosecution of tax fraud, making it compulsory to report to the public prosecutor the most serious acts of fraud – as you pointed out. The second element is that the DGFiP is also pursuing resolute action on international trade. International cooperation is essential to the fight against tax fraud in a context of internationalisation and dematerialisation of the economy. We have an important conventional network and participate in the automatic exchange of information on certain categories of income and financial accounts, as well as in the country-by-country reporting system. France is one of the countries most heavily involved in the development of automatic trade at the multilateral level. For example, with regard to automatic income exchange, at European level, France was the country that sent the most information – out of 1.8 million taxpayers – and received the most information – out of almost 1 million taxpayers. Third and final item: On May 29 in the Senate, Gérald Darmanin announced a number of measures that will be included in the Finance Bill for 2020, regarding ways to combat VAT fraud. With just over 160 billion euros, VAT is the first tax resource in the state and half of the net tax resources. Moreover, it is the second compulsory levy after social contributions, in the face of the widespread social contribution and, of course, income tax and corporate tax. In its annual study on the subject, the European Commission estimated that the loss of VAT for France amounted to approximately €20 billion, or almost 12% of the potential revenue that our country could expect from it. It was therefore imperative to take strong measures in that regard. That is what we will do in the context of the 2020 Finance Bill. The Government is mobilizing its energy at the national and European levels to make a difference, particularly with regard to e-commerce and logistics warehouses. Every month, we organize a task force to combat VAT fraud, led by the DGFiP: it brings together the main departments of the DNRED – the National Directorate of Intelligence and Customs Investigations –, the National Judicial Customs Service, the National Criminal Enforcement Brigade of the Ministry of the Interior, and the National Investigation Service of the DGCCRF, so that we will be as operational and effective as possible in this field. We thus prove that contacts are permanent within the tax administration, at central level and at deconcentrated levels, and that the prosecutors and investigation services concerned are working closely to better combat VAT fraud. All sectors are concerned, some of which have specific features: building, used vehicles, seasonal rentals, transport of people, remote sales or cashier software programmed to avoid turnover. Pires Beaune recalled that she had made proposals in this area: I have no doubt that the preparation and consideration of the 2020 Finance Bill will be an opportunity to return to it. I would add that the Prime Minister, following the great national debate, asked the Court of Auditors to take stock of the extent of tax fraud in the country and to assess the action of the State services and the tools put in place. This assessment and the resulting proposals will further improve our action to combat tax fraud. I also know that the members of the majority, in particular, are mobilized – Mrs Peyrol could testify – to accompany the Government and thus propose to strengthen our arsenal, in order to be more effective in the fight against tax fraud. The study by the Court of Auditors will naturally complement the work we will be undertaking in the context of the Tax Fraud Observatory, which Mr Roussel mentioned: indeed, at least one prominent member of his party, who sits in the Senate, has expressed his interest in being associated with it as closely as possible. This will be an opportunity to make a useful contribution by providing a real repository of information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u249	What about McDo?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u250	As you can see, the fight against fraud has already been a priority of the Government since 2017. If we share the spirit of the resolution you are proposing, we consider that many of the measures contained in it are not sufficiently operational or in line with several of the legal or economic principles that guide our action. Finally, Mr Roussel, you propose to make the fight against tax fraud the national priority of the year 2020: for us, it is the priority of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u251	This remains to be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u252	You want a dedicated ministry: it exists. This is the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts. You want a framework law: we have already adopted one and will complement it in future financial laws, as well as in future legislative debates that we will have to conduct together. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Because we are already working on the issue of tax fraud and perhaps because our ambition is far beyond a single annual framework, the Government is opposed to the motion for a resolution, while repeating its determination and willingness to fight tax fraud every day, with the support of your Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u253	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u254	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 25 Number of votes cast 24 Absolute majority 13 For adoption 9 Against 15
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1277.u255	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
